ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u3	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1811, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, the general discussion took place and the reply of the representative of the Government and the Government put the question of trust in the single article of the bill, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I call on my colleagues to take their seats and, from now on, not to pass through the benches of the Government or to occupy them or engage them while the speakers are speaking.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u4	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u6	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, we welcome the correction made by the House to the decree-law we are debating today, particularly in Article 2. I say that she is welcome, because making Parliament known in advance of the measures that the Government intends to take is all the more decisive in situations of particular emergency and crisis. It is at this moment, in fact, in emergency and crisis situations, that, more than in any other case and more than another situation, personal freedoms are put to the test and are put to the test on two fronts. One is the front of the State, with the State that is strengthened and forced to intervene; but personal freedoms are put to the test also for a subjective psychological factor: fear turns into anguish. In periods of long quarantine, such as that experienced by the Italians, the anguish very often declines towards resentment and anger; one more reason why the measures taken should, in fact, be shared. I do not imagine - as has been said several times yesterday - that one can evoke for the Italian condition a sort of man only in command, endowed with full powers. I imagine, on the other hand, a situation that could be far less worrying, but not without concern. There is no doubt, in fact, that in the phases of emergency - and in Italy the thing has happened and I emphasize definitely happened - summit procedures increase, multiply, are freed from parliamentary counterweights. And to these are often added rules that make privacy and, therefore, one of the fundamental rights of the citizen much more limited and much more limited. If we are not careful, the sum of these two factors is the weakening of the democratic system. Mr President, members of the Government, I would like to highlight one aspect. The Constitution - as is well known - does not deal with the state of emergency. Article 78 of the Constitution only speaks of a state of war. It's no accident. They did not forget to deal with the emerging topic; they decided on purpose not to treat the state of emergency because of the concern that limits were placed, even if - from a temporal point of view - limited, that they would cancel, even for a short period, the individual freedoms. They had behind them the situation of the Italian Twenty-Years and had behind them what had happened with the Republic of Weimar. So, they conscientiously decided not to deal with that subject. I understand that the pandemic is a very new case, and I'm glad it's new. The twentieth century had known Spanish. He had known it after World War I, but an emerging crisis of this kind was decidedly unknown to Western societies, just after World War I and, therefore, for a whole century. Therefore, there is no doubt that the state of emergency was accompanied by decisive emergency measures; therefore, emergency measures justified by the state of emergency, but under three conditions. The first condition is that rights of equal rank must always be protected; the second condition is respect for certain procedural rules; the third condition is that the principles of necessity, proportionality, reasonableness and temporaryity must be safeguarded and protected. I am among those - and I have written this - who did not always agree with the use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. Therefore, I welcome the fact that today we are debating a decree-law which provides, in Article 2, for an amendment of that conduct which - I understand - is the daughter of a particular state. Mr President, stage 2, however, cannot be guided and governed like stage 1: June, July, August and the months to come cannot be governed like the months of March and April. And so, I greet equally happily, reading the decree relaunch that will be sent to the classrooms in the coming weeks, the cancellation or the "explanation" - in quotes - given by the government about the limitation of the emergency period to the month of July, because this obliges to return to the centrality of Parliament. I suggest three things to the Deputy Minister who is listening to me. Firstly, a correct parliamentary dialectic must be restored for many reasons, but above all for one reason: we are not out of the pandemic and, above all, we are not out of a situation of economic crisis that could explode in the next autumn, predictably a particularly hot autumn. Parliamentary classrooms must be used to generate a strong civic spirit and a determined, republican and convinced patriotism, otherwise facing a socio-economic emergency such as is expected will be decidedly much more complicated. The road is therefore no longer that of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, but it is the one chosen by French Prime Minister Philippe - he went to the House to discuss with Parliament the rules relating to the government of the post-emergency - and the call of the President of Parliament Schäuble to Merkel, who was forced to go to the Chamber to report to the Bundestag exactly what we are discussing today. Secondly, there must be fewer task forces and more use of parliamentary committees, which must take advantage of the work of the task forces and cannot be kept on the margins of measures covering issues ranging from mobility of citizens to the emergency of health care, and so on. They must express their opinion that it is functional to the work of the Government and Parliament. Finally, more space should be given to mayors and less to regional governors. If, in fact, we do not recreate a civil network through the municipalities, to face the next fringes, which are not absolutely easy, it will be decidedly more complicated. Mr President, as you know as a jurist, the geography of powers is always redesigned in the passages. My opinion is that the best redesign would be a return to the past and, therefore, a better definition of the balance of powers on which our Constitution is based.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u7	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u9	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I would like to point out that the fact that the Government has put the vote of confidence is not very appropriate. We are now converting a decree-law with which the Government has made clear forcings through a series of decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers to contain fundamental freedoms and, therefore, it would be time to put Parliament back at the centre of institutional dynamics. The government, however, by putting its trust in it, is once again making an act of force against Parliament, and that is at least inappropriate. We do not know whether he is doing so because he is inadequate or because he has the will to systematically humiliate Parliament. Everything that has happened in this period is not normal; it is useless to keep telling oneself that everything is fine. Everything's not okay, and I'm not saying it. The fact that our Constitution has been trampled on several times is said by important jurists and constitutionalists. The President of the Constitutional Court Cartabia recalled that in the Italian Constitution there is no possibility of giving special powers to the Government during emergency phases. It is a possibility that other Constitutions foresee, as happens in Hungary, but the Italian Constitutional Charter does not foresee it. We cannot, therefore, allow the Government to go ahead with the decrees and decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. With all respect for the lawyer of the Conte people and the eminent jurist Alfonso Bonafede, Professor Cassese and the President emeritus of the Constitutional Court Antonio Baldassarre have made some criticisms and, by eye, not constitutionalist I tend to trust more of the words of Cassese and Baldassare than those of Conte and Bonafede. It would be appropriate, therefore, to be a little more careful about what has happened. How did we get to this situation? On January 31, the government issued the state of emergency and told us that everything was under control. Brothers of Italy, Giorgia Meloni and many people ask the government if it was really safe because, while they claimed that everything was in place and under control, images of entire cities guarded by the army, of people shattered, of roads sanitized with trucks arrived from China. Since that country is not particularly famous for its hygiene, nor for the protection of human life, in front of those scenes, how could everything be okay? They told us we were sowing fear. It was the time of the aperitifs in Milan, of "hugging a Chinese" and invited not to spread fear and it was claimed that the only virus was racism. We arrive at the end of February, the first outbreaks break out and the Government tells us that it is not true that it was ready, so much so that it had to issue a series of emerging decrees, and we start with that of February 23. The government told us it was ready, and it wasn't, but no one was arguing about it. There is an emergency and it is normal for the government to rush into issuing emergency acts, and it has been allowed to do so. From that moment on, however, everything that comes next becomes totally indefensible: if, in a situation of total emergency, it is necessary for the Government to intervene by force and decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, however, it is not allowed to do so three months after the declaration of emergency. I would point out that even during periods of war the rule of law is not frozen: during the war period a particular law applies and the authorities adhere to it, respect it. The Government from 23 February to today has issued 236 acts between decrees, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and ordinances, of which no one understands anything. And those 236 acts were the instrument for the government to act in total discretion, taking away all rights to citizens. And this discretion has been used to fine the merchants who protested, but also to allow the parades of April 25; to make, in violation of every law and the code of contracts, the assignment of the Immuni app. If the government decides that the procurement code is not suspended, why doesn't it respect it? The Fake News Task Force was set up. The same authorities, however, also told us at the time that the mask was useless - didn't they, Minister? - that the asymptomatics didn't transmit the virus and told us a series of lies. That same government sent circulars to hospital doctors telling them not to perform autopsies. Thank God, courageous doctors in Milan and Bergamo did not follow those indications, they did autopsies and, thanks to their courage, we found that the main cause of death was thrombosis, so it was possible to intervene from a clinical point of view and the mortality rate was lowered. The same applies now to hyperimmune plasma. We want to know if the Fake News Task Force wants to censor this. I think that the virologists have to do the virologies inside the laboratories to defeat the virus and let doctors do their job and fight the disease. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, Senator Fazzolari. I have already invited everyone to let the government stand free, because explanations of vote are under way. Since my colleagues, in an absolutely bipartisan way, did not accept my invitation, I am obliged to speak again. FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, this is symptomatic of the whole situation. As I said, we are in the process of expressing a vote of confidence on a measure that should be central, but the focus is zero. Meanwhile, President Conte is making other promises to the House of Deputies. It's all really very annoying. I don't understand how colleagues can do that. What was all this? Count's desire for totalitarianism? Are we in front of a new form of coupe in white gloves and clutches? No, it's all much more earth. Count and the government have taken a huge advantage of the outbreak. Some rather distracted observers tell us that the Government and Count have acted well, so it is true that the ratings of appreciation for the Executive go up. I want to advise people to read the writings of American politologist John Mueller on the theory of tightening around the flag during the crisis. During all crises the power of the rulers is consolidated. After 11 September, Bush's consent was 90 percent and Merkel's consent is currently 80 percent. This obviously also favors Conte, who decided to use this advantage to the full, under the advice of Rocco Casalino, his Rasputin. Everyone has the Rasputin they deserve. [[Applause.]] The Government is continuing to use this position of advantage cynically, which we might call abuse of a dominant position. It is clear that the press conferences systematically held in the early evening, close to the news, in which the President of the Council communicates to citizens what rights they have or do not have and give a huge advantage in terms of visibility. To observatories often distracted I recommend to see the progress of President Conte's Facebook profile, which for a long time remained stable at about one million followers. Starting from the outbreak of the emergency to today - so in just over sixty days - the followers have increased to 2 million, a fact never seen. The Government is aware of this and continues to use the situation with great wisdom. I do not know if this House has noticed that, in fact, we are just wasting time today, chatting about nothing. I inform you that, if ever the Senate should have a whisper of dignity and not convert the decree-law in question, the Government has already adopted a new measure (the Decree-Law of 16 May 2020, n. 33) that repeats it. Not only does he repeat it, but - I invite you to read the text - he expressly mentions it and recalls its articles, but in the version written by the Government and not in the version modified by the Chambers. Therefore, I would like to inform you that it is totally indifferent what the Senate will vote on today: even if we do not convert the decree-law in question, the Government has already launched a new one in which it says that it does not care about Parliament. Dear colleagues, I don't know if it embarrasssssss you or not to get caught in the face by the government... president. Senator Fazzolari, I invite you to conclude. FAZZOLARI (FdI). We don't have that habit. The Group of Brothers of Italy has always fought the arrogance of the Palace against the people. You will always find us on the side of freedom against all forms of abuse and also for this June 2 we will be in the square to give voice to those Italians you want on your knees. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u10	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I find the reconstructions that are being made of everything that has happened, including the part that has an impact on our legislation and our constitutional rules, and the way in which they relate to the decisions taken by the government. I find them incredible because - as can be seen also from the last speech that we heard from the colleague of the Brothers of Italy Group - it is as if there had been some kind of tsunami or hurricane - and at first it was so, in fact, and no one can deny it - but then the government would have taken pleasure in it. And, therefore, it would have used the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and the possibility of having a power not controlled by Parliament to make decisions or make direct Facebook, because they would result in electoral advantages and consent. Here, frankly, while I do not deny that there have certainly been problems related to the relationship between the use of the decrees of the President of the Council and the constitutional norms, I think it absolutely incredible that we want to carry on - finding even the bits of support - an almost conspiracy thesis, thinking that in this situation the Government has moved only in order to have an electoral return. We continue, of course, perhaps because phase 2 has opened up, not to realize what has happened and the fact that we are still in a very delicate situation. The appeals have broken down. We know - for example - the problems that occurred last Monday in some cities because the kids wanted to go out. We are still in a situation where the greatest precaution must be applied. And I want to remember all this because the pandemic and what the country suddenly faced was certainly not coded. I therefore come back to the substantive point: other laws, such as the German, Spanish or French ones, identify cases and areas related to the very precise emerging states, which can also be intervened with the compression of individual rights and providing for the derogation of constitutional provisions. The Italian Constitution is different, as is well known. I would like to remember where it came from and when it was approved. It is clear that, coming after the fascist dictatorship and after all that it had involved, our Constitution did not really want to touch the hypothesis of codifying the states of emergency. This is history, because the Constitution comes from that path. So we found ourselves, and the Government certainly found itself, in a new situation, not having general reference points to understand how to govern the emergency from the regulatory point of view. There is no emerging constitutional discipline as regards what is very dear to this House and to all of us, namely the limitation of personal rights and freedoms because of the epidemic. It is clear that the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers as regards the pandemic has been used. But on the use of this instrument, also in other fields and for other reasons, there are statements of the Consulta (as the President Grasso teaches); it is therefore a tool that is not only used now, but that had already been a little 'abused, in some ways. The government, in putting in place effective tools to be able to immediately dispose of a series of norms and prohibitions, was faced with the need to intervene also in areas where the reserve of law was clear. However - that is the point - everything has depended on the proclamation of the state of emergency; all the legislative acts and all that has happened, after it has been tried to bring it back within an absolutely ordinary regulatory channel (this is the most important issue and is the reason for the decree-law to our examination) and especially in the power of Parliament. This decree-law intervenes on a number of measures, some fortunately outdated and which we hope will no longer be used; it is important that this happens. Among the changes made by the House I would like to mention the amendment tabled by Mr Ceccanti, which was then amended in the course of the proceedings in the Chamber, which initially provided that all the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, before being issued, should be forwarded to the Chambers and the relevant Commissions, which were to be expressed within seven days; the subsequent rewording of the amendment nevertheless provides for the President of the Council's prior explanation to Parliament. This decree-law and Decree-Law No. 33 of 2020, already assigned to the Senate, ensure that the adoption of these measures fully returns to parliamentary power. The decrees-laws are issued by the government and then, of course, Parliament is sovereign in modifying them. All this effort has seemed very far-reaching - we know, Mr President - because of the rules that have been inserted and the decrees that have followed; but the clear objective was to bring back to the normality of the legislative process and therefore of parliamentary power all the rules issued, and we hope that they will no longer be adopted, in such a rigid way, especially with regard to the limitation of individual rights and freedoms. Everything has been dealt with in absolute emergency, and the emergency - I would like to remind you - is not over. It is absolutely normal, so there is no conspiracy, but there is the real possibility - that even with this decree-law and with these passages it is reaffirming - that we will return fully to parliamentaryization. This is the request that comes from all of us and that comes from Parliament, but taking into account the whole path and everything that has happened: to return to full parliamentaryization because - I repeat - everything that has happened should teach us a lot of things. There are no conspiracies and frankly some criticisms I find a little incredible, especially by those who for years have abused the decree completely, expropriating Parliament from its functions. This path and therefore also the definitive conversion of the decree-law that we are about to vote on, as well as the work that awaits us on Decree-Law No. 33, show that we are fully returning to the full parliamentaryisation of this process and also of the emergency. We therefore hope - and this is what we all hope - that this emergency will come to an end. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u15	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that an emergency as great as the one we have experienced and are living - because my colleague, Mrs De Petris, very fittingly pointed out that the gravity of the emergency is a few steps lower than that of some time ago, but we are still in an emergency - places obligations on all of us: first of all, a greater sense of measure and balance in the expression of our positions; therefore, the search for maximum effectiveness in our action. I say this because I have listened carefully to the general debate that took place yesterday in this House and I must point out that, in the face of many substantive speeches in which we have tried to keep our voices down, which I believe is a matter of substance and not just of form, I have listened to some of them that have seemed far out of proportion to me. Because I hate the controversy and I do not want to do it against those who have done these speeches, I just want to say that whenever we fail to control the way in which we express ourselves in such a dramatic situation, we fail to have a specific duty linked to our institutional function. Today we have 60,000 patients and 10,000 people in our hospitals, but no later than the beginning of April we had 30,000 people in hospitals and more than 100,000 patients, who were positive at Covid-19. Until a few weeks ago, there was enormous pressure on our hospitals and we were in the middle of such an emerging situation that our country had never experienced anything like this since the end of World War II. When we said that, we said something true and I think we can't forget it fifteen days later. The government has acted in this completely exceptional situation by facing all the difficulties that in such a condition arise, facing many risks and also many misunderstandings. But I believe that it has done so in a general tendency to take appropriate measures and proportional to the risk we were taking. It seems to me that a measure such as Decree-Law No 6 of 23 February, which was the first legal framework for our operational measures, has gone in that direction. It seems to me that the Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March has gone in that direction, which we are discussing today in the context of the conversion into law. It seems to me that he went in that direction, with a difference that I will shortly be talking about, also with the bill No 33 presented on 16 May last and of which we began to discuss in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs of the Senate this morning because, unlike the previous one, he will start from this House. These measures were important, for three main reasons. I do not have time to dwell on the details and I will try to say something about the general lines. The first reason that makes them meaningful and fair is the effort to set, in a primary standard, the duration of the state of emergency. Article 32 of our Constitution recognises that public health is a fundamental right of the individual and an interest of the community and, as such, to be protected, may require the limitation of certain fundamental rights of freedom, recalled by other articles of the Constitution. This can only be done with a rule of primary rank and the decree-law is a rule of primary rank, because it is subject to conversion, is subject to the control of the President of the Republic and requires the active involvement of Parliament. So he chose himself and I think he did well. I am convinced by this measure for a second reason that, by means of the decree-law, we have set limits to the margin for manoeuvre of the decrees adopted by the President of the Council of Ministers. It is true that these decrees, in the midst of the emergency, at the most difficult time, were adopted with Parliament's involvement, which - let us be clear - is not what we all wanted, imagined or desired. But in what condition were we? Was it really possible - I say it out of all polemical spirit - to do otherwise? I do not think it was possible and I believe that we should try to understand that, now that we are at a different stage, we can also expect a relaxation of the spirit of emergency and a qualitative leap in the relationship, confrontation and dialogue between the parliamentary forces within the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. I look at Senator Pagano, sitting before me: today we said it in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, framing the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 33. We are out of the anxiety of the darkest days and have more time to start hearings and insights, to discuss what has happened in terms of relations between different institutional levels and also to try to understand what guidance we can have to act as best as possible from the regulatory point of view, in the near future. The third reason, which makes this measure important, is that we have endeavoured to provide a framework for the relationship between regions and territorial authorities and also for the relationship between regions and the State. I think this is very significant. In conclusion, I must tell you the truth: in the light of all the considerations carried out, I find it hard to understand what someone called "constitutional-apocalypticism." It's a difficult word, but in this country we don't miss anything. There are also the catastrophists of constitutional law, who see behind every corner of the Constitution, threats of subversion of our democratic order, violations of our fundamental Charter, aggression against the rule of law. Always keeping the tones very low, because I don't want to go against the commitment I made at the beginning of my speech, I invite you to pay attention to the words we use. At no time did we go outside the perimeter of our Constitution, considering the emergency condition we were in. The countries in which the violations and aggressions of the rule of law take place on our continent are Hungary and Poland, not Italy, and we should remember this at all times, because otherwise we give our whole debate a paradoxical twist, which does not honor us. I conclude with a comment on the two additions made to the measure adopted in the Council of Ministers during the first conversion to the House of Deputies, which I agree with. The first is to have the greatest possible parliamentaryization of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers in this second phase of the emergency, which (as Senator Nencini recalled) is a very different phase from the first and will allow us a much larger area of action, which as a Parliament we will have to use. The second set an important framework for the resumption of the freedom of all religious cults in the country, because, thanks to that change, on May 15 our Government signed a protocol with the Catholic confession, which is the main and most widely followed in our country, but also with eight other minor confessions, which I believe was very important. From this emergency we also had an indication of work for the future, as I think Senator Pinotti said yesterday in her speech. In the relationship between the state and the regions, the existing regulatory apparatus cannot be considered satisfactory. Our Group has presented a bill aimed at regulating the supremacy clause, then aimed at revising Title V. It is a very complex matter and we will have to discuss it thoroughly, but I believe that a criterion of primacy in the emergence of national interest on other underlying interests and the possibility of giving more order and more organicity to our action in very delicate and exceptional times is something that corresponds to a need of our country and I hope that Parliament can face this task of analysis and decision in a unified and responsible manner. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u18	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, by accepting the call to lower tones, I say quietly that the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote against the question of trust, not so much because of the merit of the measure that is being submitted to us, but because of a fundamental question of method. Moreover, on the substance of the matter, that is, how constitutional rights subject to legal reserve or even judicial reserve have been bound by administrative act, we have already spoken when we cordially welcomed the President of the Council in this House on an occasion when he had graciously honoured us with his presence to inform us of what he was doing. We cannot be asked to trust a government that has taken advantage of a natural catastrophe to take such a shortcut and that continues to take advantage of this catastrophe to settle the accounts with its ideological enemies: small and medium-sized enterprises, VAT matches are the kulaki of revolution in clutches. I would also like to draw the attention of this House to the great absence of this sad affair, the European Union itself which wandered Orban for declaring the state of danger, in accordance with Article 53 of the Hungarian Constitution, with all the prescribed parliamentary passages, remaining in the womb of the constitutional legality of his country and which would have stoned Matteo Salvini, if he had done one tenth of what we have seen Conte do. [[Applause]] We would have seen an exasperation of the double-phasing already seen in the economic sphere. I believe that everyone here, both inside and outside this House, owes our gratitude to the lawyers of the Rodotà Committee, who, snobbered by President Conte, had the civil courage to appeal to the President of the Republic to justify, on 16 May last, their perplexity at the reading of Article 16 of the drafts of the re-launched decree, in which, with a gesture of dangerous defiance, the Government extended the state of emergency by six months, from July to January. I must say that reading that article had aroused a curiosity in me that I would like to share with you. I would have liked to be able to identify myself in some way, perhaps reading some newspapers of the time or looking at some black and white photos, in a German citizen in January of 1933. We are forced to look at the historical facts in hindsight and so we think of that citizen as aware, as concerned, but the fact is that we know what happened, that citizen does not. I think hindsight leads us into a misconception. That citizen was probably completely quiet, in fact, serene. Defending democracy would be very easy if dictators were to announce themselves as such. Unfortunately, evil does not present itself like this: our German brothers taught us this. Just think of the "Faust" in which Mephistophele presents himself in the familiar robes and resigned of a lost poodle, certainly not in the splendour of all his infinite maleficence. The highly esteemed provincial academic is also sympathetic, probably harmless, but this will have to tell us the story, the one that we will have to act together for a few years. Therefore, caution is mandatory and concerns are well founded. To those who tell us that it will never happen again, perhaps because Europe has given us peace, because Europe has shown the failure of the national states, I would point out that this Freudian removal of the past, this denial on which the regressive myth of progressiveism is based is exactly why the past then reappears. The United States of Europe is equivalent to an agreement for the division of colonies, but under capitalist regime no other basis is possible, another principle of division than force. These words of Comrade Lenin once belonged to you, before your cultural involution; I invite you to reflect on them. I would like to point out to those who are babbling over national states that Europe as a whole is discussing a Franco-German initiative, the initiative of two nations, these days. It is not the State that is an inadequate model; some states are inadequate for the inability of their elites to interpret and defend their national interests. [[Applause.]] To those who consider the 20th century archived, to those who think it is enough to remind them of its tragedies one day every 365 or, like this year, every 366, to avoid them, I humbly point out that the economic shock that we are experiencing quantitatively is twice as much as what we suffered in 1929, with all the considerations that follow, also given the institutional context in which we are and the European context in which the rules have prevented us, in thirteen years, to return to the level of GDP of 2007. I confess, therefore, that I felt a great relief by reading, in Article 14 of the decree-law I raise, the engraving different from that declared by resolution of the Council of Ministers of 31 January for the Covid-19. I would like to think that this incident is due to the initiative of the Rodotà Committee and also to the high intercession of the supreme guarantor of republican legality, to which, as always, our respect goes, and in this specific case our raised gratitude should also be. That is what matters in terms of substance. There remains the discussion on the method, which I will develop with a trivial but significant example of how this Government is working to systematically exclude Parliament, an expression of the sovereignty that belongs to the people, from the decision-making circuit of our democracy. [[Applause.]] Today we are discussing trust in a decree-law of absolutely questionable content, but that at least one merit has it: that of conciseness. If I'm not mistaken, six articles are miscounted. In six articles of a measure issued on 25 March last, the Government was unable to give this branch of Parliament an examination worthy of this name and is forced to put trust. [[Applause.]] Let's consider, then, another measure much awaited: the mirabulous decree-law I raise, and let's talk about it from the point of view of the method, not for what it will give to citizens (little) but for what it tells us about the modus operandi of this Government (much): a decree-law of 266 articles with which this Government climbs on the podium of a sad primacy, that of the most complex and farraginous legislative provision of Italian parliamentary history, beating itself (because this record so far was held by the care Italy). I don't know what impression you have, however, reading the article - in filigree, 260 pages - I read the sonnet of a well-known native poet, "Li soprani der Monno vecchio": "There was a vortex of a king cche ddar palazzo pandhora to the peoples St'editto: "I know, and vvoi..." "Now I don't remember how it ends, but maybe someone will find a rhyme. It was the year 1832. The edict of this graceful ruler of the old world was more concise than that of our present autocrat: two endemics instead of 266 articles, but one thing these two edicts have in common: both are unchangeable; it is not technically possible to amend a provision of this size. I will of course spare you the delicacies on the subject of the homogeneity of matter and the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, which on this matter has been rather obnoxious, but the citizens must know that issuing an omnibus decree of 266 articles means in fact preventing the Commissions of merit to deepen the individual measures, net of a few tips contracted in the suk of the 5th Commission to satisfy splinters of majority. [[Applause]] It means in fact pushing Parliament and setting up a government exclusively of task forces, as he said, and as the Marquis of Grillo does without saying it. Yes, because this government, living in announcements, has forgotten to announce the fundamental thing that it would have implemented, without announcing it, that project of aggression and exauteration of representative democracy that in Italian history had two climaxes: that of the "bivouac of manipoli" and that of the meetups. To a government that is opaque expression of this ideology we cannot but firmly deny our trust and of course we also wish him all the best for his projects that will fail, but for the sake of human sympathy and for the sake of the Fatherland I hope for you and for the country that the failure is less tragic than the previous one. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u21	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to greet the only representative of the Government present today.Today, talking about Decree No 19 of 25 March seems almost to be talking about prehistory, because in two months so much has happened in our country and we have moved from phase 1 to phase 2. Given that, among other things, just a few days ago another decree-law was approved, the so-called re-launch decree, consisting of 266 articles and over 450 pages, it seems clear to me that the path that this Government is taking is certainly not that of simplification, of normative clarity and above all of the expedition and of a different role that, in our opinion, the Government should play. However, I want to try to demonstrate today with my explanation of vote that it is actually very topical to talk about Decree-Law No.19. I listened carefully to Mr Parrini's speech from the PD and took the positive aspect of his further call for a kind of national harmony. I was just reading about the ceiling of this House, among the principles that we would have to keep in mind every day and every time we enter here, the very principle of harmony. Well, I must say, in spite of myself, that this agreement has been in words, perhaps also in intentions, but unfortunately there has not been in fact, because in everything that has happened, especially in the early stages of this health emergency, it has not been said how things were supposed to go and above all things have not gone as they should have gone. It has already been recalled that everything began on 31 January with a legislative decree of the Count Government, with which it was established that, on the basis of an indication of the World Health Organization, it was necessary to establish by law a phase of health emergency and it was established that it should last six months, until 31 July 2020. So we'd still be in that period. Then there was a phase substantially of little or nothing, except some measures taken in those days by the Minister of Health (as it was right that it was, because it is he who by law should deal with health emergency), with which had also been limited flights from China. Well, that legislative decree shifted the attention to the President of the Council of Ministers and that passage then provoked a number of decisions, in our opinion, absolutely outside the rules of the game, that is, outside our fundamental Charter. It is right that each of us should know well, in such cases as these, what our Constitution lays down. There are two articles dealing with states of emergency: 77 and 78 of the Constitution. The first introduces the decree-law, which must intervene in emergency cases, such as this: the second paragraph, in fact, states: When, in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, the Government adopts, under its responsibility, provisional measures by force of law, it must present them on the same day for conversion to the Chambers, which, even if loose - think a little - are specially convened and meet within five days. It is therefore very clear what our constituent Fathers wanted to say. Article 78 provides for an even more extreme and serious case, namely the state of war. Clearly and unequivocally, our Constitution states: "The Houses deliberate the state of war and confer the necessary powers on the Government." Well, it is clear to everyone, even those who do not study our Constitution carefully, that the system adopted by the President of the Council of Ministers - and I cannot even say by the Government, because in fact the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers did it himself, not the Executive - is out of the rules of the game. This government should have adopted the decree-law process from the beginning: someone mentioned it, but it was not done; to adopt from the first moment an act, which is in fact administrative, like the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, was an arrogant choice, wrong and above all out of the rules of the Constitution. It was also a mistake for us to vote on Decree-Law No 6 of 2020 - which, by consensus, Mr Bagnai, we all wanted to vote on - and perhaps the result of a good evaluation, even as the warning received from the Head of State. We will all remember - even if it has been, yes and no, three months or perhaps less - that the Head of State intervened on unified networks to tell us that at the moment there was a national health emergency, all the Italian people had to be united, the political forces in the field had to prove responsible and therefore we had to pursue national unity. [[Applause.]] On the basis of this warning, which we have read, we have voted for a clearly unconstitutional decree, because it did not establish, dear colleague Caliendo, the limits that were to be contained in that decree-law and therefore was in fact outside the Constitution. The President of the Council of Ministers should not only have taken account of this attitude of readiness on the part of the opposition forces, but should also have followed up the call made by the Head of State. Unfortunately all this has not happened, because - be careful - to try to reach national unity and try to make it real in fact with legislative acts and legal provisions is not to summon the leaders of the opposition parties to Palazzo Chigi for a chat in style "Tell us what you would like it to be done." It's not that. It is of no value, apart from the fact that some of those indications and proposals have been taken into account more or less. In an emergency situation like that, where the Chambers did not meet regularly, much more had to be done, at least a special Commission. A system had to be found for this national unity to actually find a logic that had to follow also the warning of the Head of State. It has not been done and then I will say, in my opinion, why. It is true that at the conversion of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, which is under discussion today, we will only be able to vote against, as the colleague of the League also pointed out. It is clear that we will vote against, for a number of reasons, first of all of a political nature - which I am explaining and will do even better in the minutes that will come - but also and above all constitutional. A short time ago Mr Parrini mentioned Decree-Law No 33 of 2020, linked to the so-called phase 2, which, ladies and gentlemen, was approved on the same day that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers on Stage 2 was adopted. This decree-law (No 19), ladies and gentlemen, intervenes on 25 March to heal a series of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (many), which have severely limited the constitutionally guaranteed rights to each of us, not a few days later, but many weeks later. [[Applause.]] Therefore, there has been a fairly long phase in our country, in which our constitutionally guaranteed rights, such as personal freedom (Article 13), freedom of movement and residence in any part of the national territory (Article 16), freedom of assembly (Article 17), the right to exercise public worship (Article 19) and others, rights that have been, not limited but even excluded, excluded by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. So, not even with a government meeting! Nor was it considered to be time to bring the Council of Ministers together and adopt a decree-law instead of a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause.]] So, I have to ask myself, why did this happen? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Pagano, I invite you to conclude. PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr. President. In those days there was so much discussion about the situation in which people lived. I have also heard from the Deputy Minister, who has never, since the post-war period, said that there was a situation like this, similar and comparable to that of a state of war. And it is true: Article 78 of the Constitution, as I said before, states that even to declare the state of war, the Government cannot declare it but the Houses must declare it. Dear colleagues from the Government, it is the Houses that must say whether we are in such an emergency that the state of war must be declared. If it is true as it is true that the state of emergency, as other colleagues mentioned earlier, is not contained in our Constitution, then it will be true that the state of war, although very similar to the situation in this country, is certainly a more serious situation than a state of health emergency. Well, if it is true that most contain the least and if it is true, therefore, that Article 78 states that the Chambers, in advance and in a binding manner, must establish the state of war, let us imagine for a situation of emergency health, dear colleague Garruti, that they look at me and listen carefully. That's the truth. There has been a serious and obvious violation of the rights of this Parliament and a real imbalance of powers has been adopted between the executive and the legislative. That's the problem. Relations between the Government and Parliament have been seriously affected, despite the warning from the Head of State and, not least, the warning from the President of the Constitutional Court. In fact, President Cartabia made it clear that, even in emergency situations, the guiding principle is always the Constitutional Charter. [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u22	Senator Pagano, I invite you to conclude again.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u23	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, I shall conclude. Why did all this happen? Why did the President of the Council of Ministers consider that, in such a situation, the warning of the President of the Constitutional Court and the President of the Republic should not be accepted? Perhaps it was feared that, by creating a bicameral Commission (which we proposed and rejected in the Commission), there might be the introduction of a possible government of national unity, which was not right. Hence, it was preferred to think about particular interests, partisan interests, rather than the interests of the nation. For these reasons, many things did not go well. I hope that for Decree-Law No 33 of 16 May 2020 the situation will be different, but today we, with conviction, with energy, will vote no to this Decree-Law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u26	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the report on the question of the preliminary ruling, the general discussion and explanations of vote, paying particular attention to what the opposition has said. It is up to me this time to clarify things, as is often the case with my Group. I am thinking, for example, of yesterday's intervention by Mr Perilli on the motion of distrust of the Minister of Justice. We are about to vote in favour of the conversion of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 which, due to the continuing emergency due to the evolution of the epidemiological situation following the now pandemic spread of the Covid-19, had the particularly important task of typing into an act of primary rank (the Decree-Law, in fact) the measures potentially applicable throughout the national territory or on part of it to contain and counter health risks. It pains me to emphasize, as a person who has always considered it right to place before every particular need the common good, the loyal collaboration and the vision as a whole, as it is extremely regretted by the alleged controversy raised also on this decree-law, as from a good part of all those raised on the other emerging measures provided in this very delicate phase for our country. All ideas for constructive reflection aimed at improving standardisation are welcome. They are and are as a majority always ready to confront and to share and transpose proposals for the good of the country, but what is particularly unpleasant, especially in a delicate phase like the one we are experiencing, are the speeches of constitutionalism from bars that are announced as absolute truths, flaunted to the population as threats to the democratic order. Are pseudo-paternalistic warnings of the father to the son, not to educate him, but to bypass him, to create an enemy that does not exist or, perhaps, to hide a political inconsistency dictated by the lack of content? Then, formulas suitable for any ceremony and occurrence are customs freed: absolute power, centralization of power, failure to respect the hierarchy of sources and even full powers, trying to turn around the omelette that evoked them on November 16, 1922 in the famous speech of the bivouac and August 9, 2019 in the famous speech "escape from responsibility." ( [[Applause]] ). They are inappropriate and devastating words in freedom aimed solely at gleaning a few more likes, reviling the memory of the victims of the pandemic, demeaning the trials and sacrifices made by our fellow citizens who will try to rise from the harsh repercussions of the pandemic, but who will have to do so with the help of all of us and, above all, of the majority forces. We do not shy away from our responsibilities, but the opposition forces are not free from them. Colleagues of the oppositions, it will certainly not cause storms in a glass of water or blowing on the ash that hatches under the cloak of despair with pretentious polemics that you will demonstrate a sense of responsibility, especially on this specific decree-law that, as pointed out by several parties, gives a normative framework to the emerging powers in respect of the constitutional framework. It makes me smile and at the same time worries me not a little who proposes the non-conversion of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. Is it clear to you or not that this measure sets a time limit on restrictive measures to guarantee the fundamental freedoms of the citizen? ( [[Applause]] ). Is it clear to you or not that Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 places strict stakes for the adoption of the much contested decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers? Everyone talks about the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that have restricted fundamental freedoms, but nobody mentions the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that have decompressed these restrictions. Both are adopted on the basis of sources of primary rank: decrees-laws no. 6, 19 and 33 of 2020. ( [[Applause]] ). Parliament is central to all three decrees. In a contradictory way, the oppositions raised many objections to Decree-Law No. 19, without raising the same doubts, as already admitted by Senator Pagano, who preceded me, on Decree No. 6 of 2020, converted in a very short time by the Chambers. Do you know that if we did not proceed to the conversion of Decree-Law No. 19 we would return to the picture outlined by Decree-Law No. 6, which does not provide for all the stricting stakes of Decree No. 19? Is that clear? Of course not, otherwise there would be no pretentious polemics that suggest that the documentation has not even been viewed. If a jurist had listened to you, he would have defined your intentions as heterogeneous of ends, unintended consequences of intentional actions, a philosopher such as paradox or antinomy, a psychiatrist doctor as schizophrenia (in the etymological sense of the term, separate mind). We who have listened to you in this House will have used the term demagogy, while those who have listened to us and do not belong to any of the previous categories would have spoken of bar polemics, in fact, nothing more. Not content with the guarantees enucleated during the examination in the Chamber, the majority also envisaged the so-called parliamentaryisation of the procedure for adopting the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (the so-called DPCM). So not only do the Chambers have, as it should be, the centrality in the process of conversion, but they are expected to be fully involved in the process of adopting the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, with the content of the measure to be taken by the President of the Council or by a Minister delegated by him in order to take account of any guidelines formulated by Parliament itself. Not only, therefore, the centrality of Parliament, but also the fairness and courtesy of the institutions. We have returned to regulate phase 2 with decree-law, as soon as the emergency allowed it. Decree-Law No. 33 was assigned right here in the Senate and, as a Leader of my political party in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, I hope that there will be an honest, loyal and constructive discussion on the decree in the Commission, for the good of all and for the good of the country. It is good to repeat this once again: the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and the ordinances are legitimate instruments and provided for by our legal system in the framework of the constitutional framework, as an instrument to manage emergent phases that are of necessity and urgency. It was, therefore, to choose the most agile and suitable regulatory tool to counter this situation of extraordinary necessity and urgency, which has threatened and which still threatens the health of the Italians and which has put a strain on the National Health Service (the staff in the lane has worked and continues to work tirelessly to ensure care and care at the various accommodation facilities), which has actually blocked our daily life, leaving everyone with suspended breath, until we have seen decrease the curve of the contagions, and thus represented an important test for the holding of our country system, possibly the hardest test that Italy has had to face since the Second World War. Well, in order to protect the fundamental right to health provided for in Article 32 of the Constitution, the Government has adopted a regulatory framework that this Assembly is ready to approve today, with which it has adopted restrictive measures on the one hand, with legitimate and motivated regulatory instruments given a reasonable balance of rights at stake and, on the other hand, it has outlined an accurate sanctioning framework for the violation of containment measures. Someone wrote that as a result of this tragic experience we will become better people, but I make my own the words of Ezio Bosso: Becoming better is a choice, not a consequence. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then choose to be better, let us look only at the good of the country. The time of the electoral arena will come, but that time is not now: now is the time of responsibility and awareness. As far as this is concerned, I am voting in favour of my Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u28	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u29	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, this government does not deserve trust; it has subcontracted emergency management to technicians - or supposedly such - who have never been chosen by the citizens to face the challenges of our nation. On all of them, this scientist Dr. Burioni, a new television actor, who, between a cache and another lauteously offered by public television, has literally terrified the Italian people. Singular, then, that both Burioni and Count initially categorically excluded that the virus was a problem. Yet Count certainly had the opportunity to grasp the danger coming and at least prevent the absolute shortage of masks and gels. None of this. Then, when the first contagions appeared, it went to the exact opposite, with improvised and inconsistent measures that - in fact - brought the Italian economy to its knees and, above all, the already miserable budgets of most citizens. It is easy to say that you stay home when you live in luxurious residences like those of the various characters who invaded television. However, the most serious fact of this matter is the absolute inability of the Government to manage the huge flow of money it has today. The result is total chaos: entrepreneurs still waiting for the infamous 25,000 euros and the late Cassa Integrazione. To understand the absurdity of the situation it is enough to think about what happened in the Senate last Thursday during the hearing of Dr. Giuseppe De Donno, of the hospital in Mantua, on the positive results of the therapy of hyperimmune plasma. Faced with the successes of this therapy, the Higher Institute of Health (ISS) and the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) have thought well to entrust the national study on this therapy to the hospital-university company of Pisa and not already to the hospitals of Mantova and Pavia. These are the words of Dr. De Donno: why Pisa? I don't know. I'm shocked by this decision. This is politics that wants to silence science. There is an unequivocal attempt by the ISS and AIFA to boycott the extraordinary results that hyperimmune plasma therapy is achieving through the practice of a therapy that has been in use for decades against hepatitis B and rabies. The Minister of Health, with his condescending attitude, has demonstrated his subjection to the pharmaceutical industries. But there is more. To date, it is not clear how many actual victims of the Covid-19 are and how many in reality are the deaths related to other causes. [[Call the president back.]] The same goes for the contagions. You don't understand who banned autopsies. Burions? The Scientific and Technical Committee? Only through autopsies was it possible to understand the risks of therapy and intubations and so it was really possible to save human lives. Even more resounding today is the doubt about the reliability or reliability of the swabs. Last Thursday in the Senate was held the hearing of Professor Ippolito of the institute Lazaro Spallanzani in Rome, who at the same time admitted that the swabs have enormous limits and that, in essence, they are not reliable at all. But then how is it possible to think of making choices on restrictive measures of personal freedoms depend on the results of the swabs? [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Mr President, I would ask you to hand over the full text of my speech so that it is annexed to the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u30	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. We shall therefore proceed to the vote, which I would like to remind you of. The senators and senators are invited to follow the directions of access and exit from the Chamber given by the quaestors senators. In particular, colleagues are invited to enter the Chamber from the main entrance and take their seats. Called by the Senator Secretary, they express their vote and move away from the Chamber, leaving only the side doors, to the right and left of the Presidency. I would also remind you that the senators corresponding to the first block, when the votes begin, remain seated in the Chamber in their place. The other colleagues are invited out instead.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u31	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No 1811 of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal starting with the members of the Government, the presignations of the voters and then according to the alphabetical order. I recall once again that the senators corresponding to the first group remain seated and then the senators will enter the Chamber in groups of 50 every ten minutes and will express their vote with passage to the centre of the Chamber and immediately leave the Chamber through the back door. The first group includes the senators from Abbot to Cangini, the second group from Senators Cantù to Evangelista, the third group from Senators Faggi to Leone, the fourth group from Senators Lezzi to Ostellari, the fifth group from Pacific Senators to Ronzulli, the sixth group from Senators Rossi to Zuliani. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. They asked to vote first, and I granted it, Senators Zanda, Bruzzone, Crucioli, Ribbons, Paroli, Ripamonti and Tiraboschi. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal of these senators. (The above-mentioned senators respond to the appeal.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. Coal, secretary, make the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 11:03 a.m. - at 11:03 a.m., at 11:03 a.m.) - 11:06 a.m. -). The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Campagna, Casini, Castaldi, Castiello, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi, Floriazza, Donno, Drago, Durnwalti Murfizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fedeli, Fedeli, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Floriazzi, Floriazzi, Fiazzi, Garazzi, Giazzino, Donna, Gia Senators say no: Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bernini, Biasotti, Binetti, Borgoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Carbone, Casolati, Causin, Centinario, Ciampolinello, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, De Bertoldi, De Bonis, De Vecchis Faggi, Fantetti, Fazzolari, Ferrero, Fregolentino, Fusco Gallone, Malanone, Santanché, Gasparri, Giammanco, Giro, Grassi Iannoni, Iwobi La Pietra, La Russa, Lonardo, Lucidi, Maffoni, Lunainfoni, Mafoni, Mafoni, Mafoni, Maanone, Mannero, Mannero, Magni PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1811 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 19 of 25 March 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 278 Majority 140 Favorables 155 Contrari 123]] The Senate approves. All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 19 are therefore excluded. Colleagues, the planned suspension until 12 noon is extended until 12.30 p.m. due to the continuing work of the House of Deputies. I therefore suspend the sitting until 12.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.53 a.m. and resumed at 12.42 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u32	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on measures for the new phase of the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19. I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come back to Parliament to share with you, representatives of the nation, the guidelines that the government is pursuing in order to restart the economic and productive engine of the country after the most acute phase of the health emergency has been overcome. We are aware that what we are facing is an even more difficult, and certainly no less insidious, challenge than what we faced at the beginning of the emergency when, in the face of the progressive and at times impetuous spread of the contagion, we were forced to introduce ever more severe contenitive measures, which according to the principles of maximum precaution and proportionality have been progressively extended to the entire territory of the Peninsula. In order to protect the primary goods of the person, life, health and physical integrity, we have been forced to limit travel as much as possible, to impose social distance, to suspend any activity that contemplates contact and consequently the exponential increase of contagion. Italians have fully understood the risk posed by this insidious and unknown virus, and have shared the great collective effort made to contain and mitigate it. The measures, with limited exceptions promptly sanctioned, have been respected everywhere with discipline and even awareness. If we can see today that the worst is behind us - and I do this with due caution - we owe it to our citizens, to the sacrifices they have made during these weeks during which they have been asked to change their lifestyles as well. Perhaps not everyone would then have taken such suffered decisions, which could affect some of the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution. However, just three months after the first case registered at the hospital in Codogno, I can state in conscience - we can say, as a Government, in conscience - that I have made the right choice, the only one able to counter the spread of the epidemic throughout the national territory. With the same determination, I consider it possible today, even if it is necessary, in the presence of an epidemiological framework that is not completely resolved, to make a courageous choice directed towards a rapid return to normality. We are now in a position to go through this stage 2 with confidence and responsibility. We all know better about the virus, we know how to protect ourselves, what are the rules of social distance and hygiene, the useful and sometimes necessary function of the masks and personal protective devices. I appeal to all, and in particular to young people, whose enthusiasm for regaining this freedom of movement is fully understandable: at this stage, more than ever, it remains fundamental, even when we are outdoors, to respect the safety distances and, where necessary, the use of masks. This is not yet the time for parties, nightlife and gatherings. We must be careful, because it is not only about exposing ourselves to the contagion - this is what our young people must understand - but also about exposing their loved ones to the contagion. We have set up an accurate national monitoring plan. It is a plan that allows us, on the basis of daily information, to reach us from the regions, to have a detailed picture of the epidemiological curve, based on the intersection of a large number of parameters. It is a plan that will allow us to intervene, if necessary, with restrictive measures, in case, in specific places, new outbreaks occur. We are aware that the start of the new phase could favour, in some areas, the increase of the contagion curve. This is a risk that we have calculated and that we will keep under observation. We must accept this risk, because we cannot stop waiting for a vaccine, otherwise we will never be in a position to restart and we will find ourselves with a productive and social fabric terribly and perhaps irremediably compromised. We cannot afford to prolong the effectiveness of such restrictive measures for an indefinite time. In fact, a liberal and democratic system cannot tolerate a compression of fundamental rights, except to the extent strictly necessary to defend the primary assets of the life and health of citizens, depending on a serious and current threat. The permanence of such strict measures in terms of the limitations of fundamental rights, beyond the time necessary to reverse the contagion curve, would therefore be unreasonable and incompatible with the principles of our Constitution. From this point of view we have included the remaining limitations on fundamental freedoms, which are still essential to overcome the health crisis completely, in provisions of primary rank, while we have reserved only the most detailed forecasts for secondary standardization. Last week, on 16 May, we adopted Decree-Law No. 33, which limits restrictions on movement exclusively to movements between regions and, to the state, only until next 2 June. The limiting measures for people who are positive for the virus and those who have had close contact with positive subjects are clearly confirmed. Within the regulatory framework laid down with these primary rules, which is therefore now offered, will be examined, amended and supplemented by Parliament when the decree-law is converted, then the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers adopted on 17 May. The measure was defined as a result of a close and constant interlocation with the regions and other local authorities. I would like to thank the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the local authorities for their efforts and for the cooperation shown since the outbreak began and even now, in this very important step, because the relaxation of the measures took place with a shared plan, with coordination also with the regional forecasts. The measure contains specific provisions for the safe reopening of economic and social activities, as well as detailed sector protocols defined with the support of the Technical and Scientific Committee, as well as with the contribution of INAIL, which I would like to thank here for the professionalism and commitment shown so far. I summarize the main provisions of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that, from Monday 18 May, govern, together with the ordinances of the Regions, the course of phase 2, articulated according to a clearly defined temporal scan. As far as retail trade and catering activities are concerned, as is well known, we have set the reopening for 18 May, under the strict safety protocols adopted, in the awareness also of the serious economic suffering accumulated by these sectors. In the same way and in accordance with the relevant protocols, the activities related to personal care services and bathing establishments have been reopened, as from 18 May. From May 25th the gyms and swimming pools will reopen. From 3 June it will be possible for EU citizens to enter Italy without a quarantine obligation. From June 15 will reopen cinemas, theatres, summer centers for children. This set of rules of primary and secondary rank guarantees the possibility of gradually returning to the full development of economic and social life. On the other hand, in starting phase 2 we do not rely solely on the self-discipline of individuals: we have defined in recent weeks a system of interventions and controls of epidemiological developments entrusted to the formula, which is now very often used, of testing, tracing and treating. On the test front, we are enhancing the controls through molecular, serological tests, also useful in order to map the spread of the contagion within the country. In Italy they have been made so far - I remember - 3,171,719 swabs: it is a remarkable number, which places our country first by number of swabs per inhabitants. For those who love the rankings, I also make one more point: we are talking about 5,134 swabs per 100,000 inhabitants. But, above all, at this stage it is important to increase the use of molecular tests and for this reason, on 11 May, the Commissioner's structure launched a request for offers for kits and reagents, in order to allow the administration of additional 5 million tests. 59 national and international companies have responded with offers for 95 types of products, which will be verified very quickly. With regard to serological tests, free tests will start on Monday 25 May on a sample of 150,000 citizens for exclusive scientific research purposes. Behind there is also a very important organizational effort: 550 volunteers and operators will be engaged on a regional basis, with the preparation of a national coordination structure. Again, with regard to the second pillar of the control strategy, contact tracing, the Government, with Decree-Law No. 28 of 30 April, has introduced a discipline - as you know - to implement the app so-called Immuni, in order to ensure full respect for privacy, security of citizens and protect the national interest. For the necessary activities of verification and further development of the source code and those aimed at distribution, installation and management of the app, were involved and involved public companies fully participated by the State - PagoPA and Sogei - with which special agreements were signed free of charge. I remember that the open source code will be known in the next few days by anyone. The data will only be used to track the spread of the virus and will be deleted as soon as the emergency is over. The Decree-Law No 28, which I mentioned, is currently before the Senate Justice Commission and, during the parliamentary process, will certainly be able to enrich itself with the contribution of the Chambers. The third pillar, the one relating to the treatment of patients, is based on a constant increase in the receptive capacity of our health system. The beds in the ICU are now 7,864: we have seen a 52 percent increase over the start of the emergency. The beds in the wards of infectious diseases and pneumology are 28.299: here the percentage increase is considerable: 334 percent more. In view, thanks to the decree-law relaunch, just published in the Official Journal, and therefore to the appropriation provided for in it, amounting to 3,200 billion euros for health, we will be able to make stable the increase of 3,500 beds in intensive care arranged to cope with the emergency and requalify 4,225 beds in semi-intensive area, that will be usable both in ordinary regime and under regime of infectious treatment with high intensity of care, 50% of which will have to be immediately convertible into beds of intensive care. We are aware, however, that the reopening of activities is not enough to reactivate the engine of our economy, tested by two months of restrictions and - we must never neglect it - by the general collapse of global demand. In the face of such a shock, there is a need for constant, effective and prolonged action to accompany productive and commercial activities by the public authorities. With Decree-Law No. 34 so-called relaunch, the Government has continued the action of support to the economy already started by decrees care Italy and liquidity, but it has also made - if you allow me - one step more, laying the foundations for an economic restart of the Country. The measure allocates EUR 55 billion, if we reason in terms of net debt; however, it is worth EUR 155 billion in terms of net balance to be financed, considering also the financing of liquidity policies. We are now offering it, of course, to your evaluation, to Parliament's assessment and - I am sure - also to the resulting improvement. It is certainly a complex text, which has required much commitment, great effort, a long process of elaboration; it exceeds the amount of traditional economic maneuvering, both for the extent of its budget and for the wide range of interventions that you will find in it. Support is an objective which must not be incompatible with the concept of relaunch. Protecting health, social and economic protection networks that protect constitutionally guaranteed rights and ensure the well-being of our citizens is crucial to growth. Only by guaranteeing these garrisons will we be able to start planning tomorrow's Italy with confidence and security. In addition to the necessary continuation of support measures for families and businesses, we have therefore wanted to concentrate significant resources in the areas of greatest strategic interest for future growth. Among the main ones, I would like to mention school, university and research, health, tourism and the building sector. A first chapter of the decree-law, worth 5 billion euros, concerns for a large part the interventions of strengthening for the benefit of the health system, to some of which I have already mentioned, as well as interventions in favor of the Forces of the order and the Civil Protection. Another important chapter of the Decree-Law concerns measures for the benefit of workers: the considerable figure of EUR 25 billion is allocated to extend, even for the coming months, social shock absorbers such as the Social Security Fund, unemployment benefits and miscellaneous benefits for self-employed workers. In addition to allocating the necessary resources for this purpose, the Government has introduced a drastic discipline for simplifying the procedures for the delivery of these instruments. We have all seen in recent weeks how complex the bureaucratic mechanisms linked to the supplementary fund are by way of derogation. On the other hand, they were procedures that were completed within four or five months and clearly these times and these regulations are not adequate in relation to the depth of the emergency that we are experiencing. This is why you will find in the decree-law a simplified procedure, through which the INPS will be able to anticipate 40% of the benefits at the time of the application from the enterprises without passing for the sending of the applications to the Regions. I must thank Minister Catalfo for his efforts. [[Applause]] And not only for this simplification (together with Minister Boccia has worked with the Regions to develop this simplified procedure), but also because, for all those who have not been covered by previous support measures and who therefore pay in very critical conditions, we now expect an emergency income, which will be paid in two shares of variable size, from 400 to 800 euros monthly, depending on the size of the household. It has also been introduced, at the initiative of Minister Bellanova and then widely shared, a rule that under certain conditions allows the emergence of undeclared work in the fields of agriculture and family support activities. The suspension of criminal proceedings does not operate against employers in the presence of crimes to facilitate illegal immigration, trafficking and exploitation of labour. The second area of intervention of the Decree-Law is that of business support measures: it is a very comprehensive chapter that mobilises around 15 billion euros in terms of greater deficit through non-refundable aid, tax relief and a wide range of incentives to support the safe reopening of economic activities. For companies and professionals who have achieved a turnover of less than EUR 5 million in 2019 and who in April 2020 have suffered a decrease in turnover and fees of at least two thirds compared to the corresponding month of April 2019, we expect grants. Among the tax concessions for the benefit of the companies is also proposed the exemption from the payment of the balance IRAP, that due in 2019 and also the down payment due in June 2020, for all the enterprises with revenues inferior to 250 million euros: it is a measure that - I remember - retains within the enterprises 4 billion liquidity, for the benefit of beyond 2 million companies. At the same time, the deadlines for the payment of various taxes and contributions which we have already suspended for March, April and May are being extended from 30 June to 16 September. Tax credits are also provided for adapting the working environments and their sanitisation, for the reimbursement of commercial rents in March, April and May, as well as a strengthening of the existing tax credit for the research and development of the Mezzogiorno. For the benefit of hotels, pensions and bathing establishments, the payment of the first instalment of the IMU, which will expire on 16 June, is also abolished and, in order to provide concrete aid to all economic activities, the Decree-Law also provides for a reduction in the cost of electricity bills for the months of May, June and July of this year. Protecting our production structure in this difficult recession requires a further effort to strengthen the capitalization of our companies in order to defend their competitiveness and resilience. We have done so with significant tax concessions and you will see that there will really be substantial discounts for those recapitalised. In addition, in order to promote the consolidation of small and medium-sized enterprises, the decree intervenes to establish a special fund entrusted to Invitalia, aimed at signing participatory financial instruments issued by small and medium-sized enterprises. There is also provision for the creation of a destined heritage, which we have defined as a re-launched asset, which, through the intervention of the Deposit and Loan Fund, will lead to the use of resources for the support and relaunch of large companies, this time, strategic ones, in compliance with the European regulatory framework on State aid. A few days ago, the updated new temporary framework was defined, precisely to allow for State aid otherwise not granted and not allowed. Within the decree-law there are measures in favour of families, in particular those with children, on which they have deeply affected the prolonged closure of schools and profound changes in the times of life and work generated by the closure of economic activities. First, we enhance the baby-sitting bonus, increasing the limit to 1,200 euros, which then rises to 2,000 euros for the security, defence and public aid sectors, and then we add the option, as an alternative, to use the bonus to enroll in children's services and summer centers. In favour of the latter, we have also allocated the sum of EUR 150 million for 2020 in order to strengthen and support the provision of leisure and leisure activities for our children. Secondly, we increase to 30 days the leave available to private sector dependent parents with children under 12 years of age, granting an allowance of 50% of their remuneration and extending the period of time until 31 July, again this year. We also envisage specific measures for people with disabilities, to which we have paid particular attention. We increase by twelve days the total paid permits in May and June of people with disabilities and their family members. We provide a total of EUR 150 million in support of the Non-Sufficiencies Fund, the Non-Sufficiencies Fund, the Non-Supportable Fund for people with severe disabilities and a new support fund for semi-residential facilities dedicated to people with disabilities. There are also other measures to support the economy, which I will not dwell on, because the detail would take too long, but, as I anticipated, the Decree-Law contains important measures to boost growth in sectors of major strategic interest. Thanks to the suggestion of the Undersecretary Fraccaro, we have placed in the decree a superbonus that stimulates the interventions of energy efficiency in the buildings, of decrease of seismic risk and those connected, relative to the installation of photovoltaic systems and columns for electric vehicles. For these interventions, citizens will be able to benefit from a tax deduction equal - think - to 110% of the expenses incurred, usable in five years, or, alternatively, a discount in the invoice provided by the supplier, which will be able to recover it in the form of tax credit transferable to other subjects, be they banks or financial intermediaries. Thanks to this measure, families will have the opportunity to save on the cost of energy and will be able to build new plants at zero cost. We can give a powerful boost, in this way, to building renovation activities and private investments in environmental sustainability. The decree-law, then, devotes a particular attention to tourism. It is a sector that mobilizes more than 13 percent of our GDP, put to the test by the global impact of the Covid-19. In order to support this sector, it will be crucial to focus, to an even greater extent than in the past, on internal mobility. In addition to the above mentioned cut of the IMU for the benefit of hotels and bathing establishments, we put in place a vacation bonus to stimulate the demand, which will be granted to families with an ISEE not exceeding 40,000 euros and will be spendable at national level at various accommodation facilities. We also intervene with structural measures to support the sector, such as the creation of a tourism fund with EUR 50 million for 2020; of a fund for the promotion of tourism in Italy with a budget of EUR 30 million; of an additional fund, with EUR 50 million, to help accommodation companies and bathing establishments pay for sanitization and adaptation to virus containment measures. We are aware that tourism requires further action. We reserve the right to activate these new interventions as soon as the European recovery financing plan is established. As you know, these are hot days to complete this package of instruments at European level. I do not go into the details of so many other interventions that we have made and support measures, for example, for culture, cinema, entertainment and theaters. I would like to take this opportunity to invite all citizens to take their holidays in Italy. Let's discover the beauties we don't know yet. [[Applause.]] Let's go back to enjoying the beauties we already know. In this way, too, we will contribute to the revival of our economy. Looking further ahead, we are convinced that there is no future for our country without ambitious investments in school, university, research and training. These are crucial areas, which have received careful consideration in the Relaunch Decree. The management of the return to school in September will entail huge organizational costs and the past few weeks have shown us the importance of increasing the digitization of our institutions and our teaching. To this end, they allocate EUR 1.45 billion over two years to the benefit of the school. A further budget of EUR 1.4 billion is intended to strengthen our university and research system. It is an appropriation that will allow us to allocate 4,000 additional research posts, to be added to the 1,600 already resolved, which you have found in the budget law of 2020. They will enable us to strengthen our right to study and invest in a major national research programme. In my memory, it is the largest investment made for research and university in the last twenty years and perhaps the most important link we deliver to the development of the country. Furthermore, the Decree-Law provides for important appropriations for municipalities and for export operations. Here I must thank Minister Di Maio, because he is working hard to strengthen a comprehensive programme of support for exports, the protection of sectors in crisis, for the agricultural sector, and in support of the transport sector. The interventions so far planned - we are aware of this - constitute a necessary line of protection, but that does not exhaust the actions to be put in place to reactivate the country's economy. I feel the suffering that grows and spreads in the country. I feel the fears, anxieties and worries of many of our fellow citizens, of those who, after having invested years and energy in their commercial activities, fear that they will see their sacrifices frustrated; of those who do not know if in the coming months they will be able to keep their jobs and those who are afraid of not being able to provide support for their families. I do not escape the gravity and depth of this crisis witnessed also by strong gestures, by initiatives such as the return of keys by many small traders, entrepreneurs, and also by the many letters I receive daily from many citizens. It is a very hard test from which we will quickly rise if everyone will play their part, if we can coordinate the efforts and create the necessary synergy of the entire country system. The banking system, which is also offering its cooperation, can and must do even more and, in particular, must do everything to speed up the procedures necessary to provide loans covered by the public guarantee. ( [[Applause]] ). The rules of the decree-law that you are helping to improve allow - I am referring above all to requests of less than 25,000 euros - to provide loans guaranteed really quickly. Yet, in many cases banking institutions fail to comply with these deadlines. I have many reports of cases where this is happening, I imagine to you too. It is essential for banks to be able to align themselves with the most efficient practices by ensuring guaranteed liquidity as quickly as possible. ( [[Applause]] ). We cannot allow companies, at this time when they are particularly vulnerable, to be deprived of the money needed to ensure the economic continuity of their activities. It is a concern that I have personally shared in these days with various presidents of Confcommercio, Confesercenti and the various representatives of the various interested categories, who also expressed to me the difficulties of the categories they represent in obtaining these resources. If the growth estimates for the current year unfortunately cannot surprise us, what we need to worry about is above all looking backwards - here you have to be careful - the low growth dynamics that our country has experienced in the last decade, when we have seen an average gap of more than one percentage point compared to the European average of GDP growth. In the light of this legacy, we cannot in any way allow the socio-economic gaps, already wide within the continent and between the different areas of our country, to continue to accentuate. The task of politics is to work to develop a broad program of economic and social rebirth together and with the contribution of the best energies of the country. The first piece of this reform project can only be a drastic simplification of the bureaucratic machine; an architecture that, due to its excessive complexity, has slowed down beyond measure the arrival at the destination of the public resources allocated - we are experiencing it these days - and, therefore, is preventing the strengthening of the infrastructure capital of the country. In this regard - we have already stated it publicly - we are working on the new decree-law, which will be dedicated to administrative and bureaucratic simplification. It will introduce many new elements to provide Italy with an unprecedented economic shock and, in particular, in the infrastructure sector. I consider this reform to be the mother of all reforms and the only one capable of boosting competitiveness. Italy can no longer wait and this is the moment of the turning point. [[Applause.]] If we do not succeed in simplifying even in this situation of absolute emergency, I doubt that we will be able to do so in the future. Activating the power of public works is a priority for all the majority forces that support the Commission, but I am also convinced that we will find a dialogue with oppositions on this. Some of the majority forces have already announced and elaborated some very articulated proposals, which will certainly find ample space in the decree-law, within which a specific section will be dedicated to the strengthening of the ability to spend and the acceleration of the yards. In this respect, we plan to draw up a priority list of large-medium-sized strategic works, which can be carried out with a simplified process compared to the current regulatory framework and, where appropriate, assess the granting of powers of derogation, without losing the most stringent controls. [[Comments. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u34	I'm the one who has to keep the House, okay? Please, a little silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u35	Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. As I said, tighter controls, controls that ensure full transparency and keep away the appetites of criminal infiltration. We also want to promote a cultural revolution in public administration so that, while rigorously and transparently, public officials can be encouraged as much as possible to unblock public works and procurement, avoiding excessive legal and regulatory uncertainty on their work. We want to make our order more attractive for the benefit of businesses. We also want to introduce reforms with regard to company law, for more streamlined and more efficient governance models, without compressing minority rights and favouring the capitalization of companies themselves. I am beginning to conclude, because I actually have difficulties, I have problems with my throat. [[Applause.]] Another important chapter will certainly be innovation. I summarize very briefly: we must try to promote entrepreneurial and social organizational creativity; we must strengthen the digital endowment of our schools, we have also seen how important it is in this period to have networks of resilient connectivity, capillaries throughout the territory, also to make possible and improve remote work. They're valuable investments. We have many excellences, we have to enhance them; we have to invest in human capital, strengthening the technical structures of administrations, their design capacity and reducing compliance but improving services to the citizen, strengthening the culture of data, the digitisation of processes. And then - be careful - another pillar on which we must focus is inclusiveness. The country has been shrinking from a decade of growing gaps between North and South. Gender inequalities in access to work due to a low rate of female participation. We must remove these obstacles to social and territorial equality at the root. This is not a luxury, but a precondition for future development. In order to avoid both gaps continuing to widen, it is crucial to make the most of European resources for investment in territorial cohesion and strengthening infrastructure, as well as to invest decisively in family and child policies, strengthening educational and care projects, including with the involvement of local authorities in the third sector and support measures for families. We need to stimulate and awaken the vocation of girls in scientific careers, putting in the field policies that give more access and visibility to all women also in these areas. [[Applause.]] I have to admit in this House that little - not enough - we have done for families, also an accomplice of a very complex public finance framework, obviously also because of the plurality of the interventions necessary to contain the socio-economic costs of the Covid-19. We must continue with the work already undertaken in view of the family act, coordinated by Minister Bonetti, which will enable us to further strengthen economic measures to support the family and the birth rate. It will have to increase the government's commitment to promoting accessibility to the highest degree, with particular attention to the removal of architectural barriers in public buildings, but also private buildings. The Covid-19 crisis has been and is proving to be a profound, violent and dramatic crisis; it restores to us the need for a society that places health, quality of life and common goods at the centre of its system of protection. It is a crisis that gives us a community in which the guarantee of individual well-being, but also collective, can no longer be thought of as a mere corollary of economic activity; it must be programmed as a precondition for development, which can also be a source of sustained growth if we can face it with innovative solutions and also with the creativity that is in our DNA, typical of Italian genius. We are facing a historic opportunity. We can loosen the knots, remove the incrustations that so far have prevented us from producing widespread well-being for all our citizens, overcoming the weaknesses that have so far hindered the development of the country, in particular since the mid-nineties. It is up to us to ensure that this emergency is transformed into opportunities. We are not under any illusion that this is an easy challenge, but our commitment will be maximum. We are comforted by the awareness that Italy is a great country: we know it well and so many, many citizens of the world know it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u36	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u37	Mr President, I think it is important, even if a few days after the start of phase 2, to discuss and discuss in Parliament in order - if necessary - to accompany, strengthen and enhance the measures that the Government has put in place, also - I must say and I intend to do so immediately - correcting them in some cases. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I was pleased to hear the passage of the final part of your speech when you said that we must do more on the family side. I think that the stature of a leader, of a President-in-Office of the Council, can also be seen when he is able to say that more can be done. That is a good thing, and I would like to stress it at the beginning of my speech. I want to talk about three issues: firstly, the idea of asserting a territorial differentiation in the restart. I think that's a good choice. It was done in connection with the work of civil protection in the attention towards the North Regions at the moment of greatest difficulty; it was done in the decree relaunch, when in addition to 3.5 billion for the municipalities, the metropolitan cities and the provinces, 200 million more was allocated for the provinces most affected. This is also certainly positive, as is the positive idea of empowering territories even with a very complicated and difficult confrontation. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the coordination work carried out by Mr Boccia, together with you and the other Ministers. [[Applause]] You pointed it out as a powerful job. I imagine the trouble of those hours. It is useful, therefore, a few more days to achieve maximum sharing and an important institutional collaboration. Let me say, however, that we must be careful not to differentiate too much. I am referring in particular to those health care and diagnostic tools which must accompany the economic restart and which are one of the fundamental tools for those protocols which you have so laboriously negotiated to become effective. I am referring in particular to serological tests. I'm an example of my region. I do not want to argue because the situation is complex and difficult. We all found ourselves in front of an unknown. In these days the Lombardy Region has decided to open to the private - and so far all well - and it is necessary to call everyone to strengthen the ability to offer of the instruments, but it has done so liberalizing excessively tests of every kind without reference prices. There are now tests from 25 to 95 euros on the market. Then - in my opinion - for a region already affected, in addition to the damage there is the mockery of the difficulty of access to care, however, with discrimination on a redditional basis. That is unacceptable. [[Applause]] I do not dispute with the Lombardy Region, but I ask my Government to take into consideration Nicola Zingaretti's proposal to include serological tests in the LEAs, because this would allow order to be made, to understand which tests are accepted and certified, as well as to reaffirm a principle of equity. [[Applause]] Secondly, the maintenance of our economic and productive system also passes through the reopening of borders, through our vocation to export and through our tourist vocation. I know our ministers are working to do something complicated. We announced in the decree-law and then in the decree of the President of the Council that we will reopen the borders on 3 June. I look at Minister Lamorgese because he will have a difficult task in the Schengen area together with ministers Amendola and Di Maio and in this case, for the tourist flows, also Minister Franceschini: we must smooth the corners, because our choice has been perceived as a unilateral act, however justified because on the other hand there had been a forcing on bilateral agreements. Let us avoid bilateral agreements; let us work together so that we can move back to Schengen, especially for border economies. I come from the Province of Varese, but other colleagues could tell about how, on the border regions with Austria, Slovenia, France and Switzerland, economies are highly interdependent. [[Applause]] People work, move and create wealth, also for the tourist flows in the regions that live from that. Finally, Mr President, do we take up the challenge of the restart that we are facing only as an opportunity to shut down the gaps and to face the emergency by learning to live with the coronavirus or - as I have read and heard in the final phase - we try to rethink the model of development of our society taking note of the forced lessons that have arrived with the coronavirus? I say it for titles: we stayed at home and this forced us to work with new technologies. We did a digital literacy operation that so many policies of past governments had never grasped. [[Applause]] What does that mean from this point of view? We need, together with that money and emergency measures that you have listed, to think of a comprehensive law on smart working, which broadens opportunities, changes working methods and rethinks sustainable mobility, that is, how we move, and what an impact this has on the environment. Both resources and the regulatory framework are important, because another fundamental battle of civilization is measured on smart working: do we widen or reduce gender differences? Isn't it that we force women to stay at home, take care of family loads, and think about work? [[Applause]] This is a fundamental point, which also applies to industrial policy, and not only to rationing medical devices and IPRs, that is, what we are referring to as strategic and important to our industry, but also to automotive. I am closing on this point: I understand that you have already responded to the debate on 6.3 billion at Fiat, saying that we need to change company law. I would also give him more money at the end of the day if it were to direct, in terms of industrial policy, the electric car or other investments that guarantee employment in our territory. [[Applause]] We use the debate over the coming months not only to address the emergency, but also to build a strategic plan that looks to the future. This also applies to European funds: let us not argue about the size or whether it is about non-refund resources or loans, but let us ensure that that money is used to plan the future of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u38	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u39	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the data from the last DEF have taken pictures of a situation of profound difficulty: a loss of GDP of eight points - in the end there will be even more than eight - a sharp increase in the country's indebtedness; an exposure on the financial markets that is supported only by the massive intervention of the ECB; and then a fall in consumption; a death of commercial businesses; the loss of half a million jobs only in the trade sector. We are not talking about what is happening to tourism, to the world of cultural events and to that of industrial production which, in the weeks of lockdown, has collapsed by 28%, with an explosion of applications for cash integration. For these reasons, the last time in the Senate, our Group had called for great courage on the front of reopenings and regional differentiation. A few weeks later, we are delighted that your government has taken that path. We had to go back and we did it. But if we want to stop now, we need three things today: security, organization and responsibility. First of all, we need all workplaces to be safe. Entrepreneurs are making an incredible effort and this path must be accompanied; figures must be formed that support business activities in making the right choices in the organization of spaces, in the division of tasks and also in avoiding the wrong and unnecessary expenses. We need an organized approach: to consolidate the health front throughout the phase of coexistence with the virus; to monitor effectively and efficiently; to develop scenarios in the case of a new epidemic wave to ensure that the impact on people's lives is the least invasive possible (the exact measure compared to the needs of health containment). And finally, we need responsible behaviour on the part of citizens: wearing masks, sanitizing environments, respecting the rules of social distance. We must pass on the message that each of us has on our shoulders not only the health of our neighbor, but also the fate of the trusted shopkeeper, that of the company where a friend of ours works, the place of work of a relative of ours. A starting Italy is a Italy that returns to be connected with Europe. The return to internal mobility and the willingness to reopen borders are good, but the real issue is the full restoration of all European mobility. Italy takes this position forcefully and continues to take this position with the strength of the last few days. Bilateral agreements between other countries today undermine the economic interests of Italian companies and violate the right of movement enshrined in the Schengen agreements. If we do this, we will be able to live the next few months with the right eye, which cannot be that of fear and fear. Italy today calls for a message of hope, that optimism of the will that unites all the citizens who have returned to work and who just want to work to recover the lost ground. Those who have the opportunity to talk to traders and entrepreneurs know that today they are asking politics to play a policy that is all in attack, without giving up even a millimetre to the virus, but also to catastrophism and to sterile and useless polemics; a policy of responsibility that also means maximum involvement of local authorities and self-governments. We are pleased, Mr President, that your Government has also recorded a strong change of pace on this point after a phase of decisions - in our opinion - a little centralist. We are also pleased that the phase of the use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which were beginning to foreshadow not only as the suspension of the prerogatives of ordinary and special self-governments, but also as an emptying of Parliament's role, has finally been exhausted. Local authorities have been at the forefront of their relationship with citizens and have touched on the economic problems of businesses that were in danger of not reopening or that unfortunately have not done so anymore. The local administrators know better than all the others the problems of a territory, which are also problems of keeping the social fabric - my first concern for the coming months, with a recession in itinerant, is that the social estate can be guaranteed - and also the threats of criminal infiltration - as you said in your speech - in situations of fragility. Mr President, the data on contagions - and I shall now focus on my Autonomous Province - say that the Autonomous Province of Bolzano was right to anticipate its reopenings by means of a provincial law. We have played a pioneering role thanks to our special autonomy, which gives us the opportunity to legislate. Our law is inspired by clear principles: the principles of prudence, responsibility but also hope, with security protocols that are stricter than those that the government adopted a few days later. For all this I hope that we do not have to open a constitutional dispute between the State and the Autonomous Province of Bolzano. I am very confident, Mr President, that you can share this view. In any case, what is important now is to prevent new closures, local or total. As the Parliamentary Budget Office has pointed out, in this scenario the loss of GDP would be between 10% and 15%. I should like to conclude, Mr President, with a few wishes. The financial means made available in a robust way with the decree-law relaunch, but also already before with the decree-law care Italy, go to destination and quickly. My concern is the 98 implementing decrees that will take place, and I hope so much that the 55 billion can really go to the destination in the coming weeks, avoiding being able to find us in October to see that much or a part of that money has not been able to go to the destination. The second hope is that the next measures will have to go within the scope - and you said so - of the greatest work of bureaucratic simplification that Italy has ever known. Today we run the risk that the resources will be trapped in too many obligations or inability to use by the public administration, as we have often seen with European funds. We need a total change of course, and I am confident that the government will do everything in this direction. We also need convincing work with public administration and a new relationship between the state and citizens is needed: it must be a relationship of trust, because it is clear that simplification also has risks. In my opinion, there is no alternative. The third wish concerns the distribution of the means, which must focus on sectors that can create value for economic recovery, avoiding welfare logics that would make even more complex that reduction of the debt necessary not to expose Italy to speculation on the markets when the umbrella of the ECB closes. The last wish concerns the world of school. If we rewrap the ribbon of these weeks, the closure of schools, kindergartens and kindergartens was the saddest and most painful moment. The school was so part of our everyday landscape that we didn't realize how important it was to scan our lives and those of our children. It's nice that the school camps are reopening, but it'll be even nicer when the next school year begins. Really do everything possible to ensure that schools never have to close again, as all those families who today struggle to reconcile work and private life ask us. Let us intelligently and courageously reform the school system because, if we have not understood it so far, the Covid has taught us. I am referring to digitisation, but also to new teaching systems and new skills, which will be essential to our young people, in order to establish themselves in a globalised world. Mr President, as of today we are working on what will touch us in the coming months and years. It will be a difficult challenge, but it must become an exciting challenge, to really make Italy a freer, simpler and stronger country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u40	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u41	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for the issues you have raised with your speech. I start from an initial point of view, which refers to what happened yesterday in this House. If yesterday the motion of no confidence had been passed against the Minister of Justice Bonafede, we would probably not be here today to carry out this information; you would have gone to the Quirinale, a government crisis would have opened and we would have certified a sidereal distance between the political community and the citizens. I say this because national and international newspapers would have titled an incomprehensible crisis, at a time when the country is already experiencing an economic crisis. The country and the citizens, because of the coronavirus, already live a condition of difficulty. Mr President, yesterday we demonstrated, with a sense of responsibility, that the interests of the country come first to us and then the considerations we have made towards the Minister of Justice. [[Comments.]] Mr President, I think that perhaps colleagues will be even more agitated by what I will say later and, therefore, if they are already agitated by the nothing I have said so far... [[Comments.]] I didn't say who! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, let's continue Senator Pharaoh. Mr President, I would have considered incomprehensible a crisis of government, at this very delicate and so particular moment for our country, even if at the head of the government there had been a political representative of those who are in opposition today. Mr President-in-Office of the Council - as Senator Renzi said yesterday when he spoke of a patriotic spirit - I think it is worth putting before all of Italy and I believe that this choice of responsibility has been useful, even for those Italians who have signed and voted the motions of distrust against you. In fact, I believe that putting before the interest of the country is a consideration, an idea that must belong to all the representatives of the political forces. Unfortunately, that was not the case, so much so that yesterday I saw some senators vote without distinction motions of distrust guaranteed and executed, because the political objective was simply to send the government home. If you, too, had said that Bonafede had to go home, Senator La Russa - as you said candidly yesterday - would have tabled a motion of confidence in the Minister of Justice in order to send her home. I believe that yesterday's choice - a choice made when Italians expect from us measures on the integration fund in support of workers who have been forced to stay at home; they expect aid to companies, help to families and bonuses for professionals - must be the polar star of those who today lead the country, but also of those who today play a role of opposition. We have a paradox, Mr President: who among the sovereign political forces has explained to us in all these years that Europe is a Union from which Italy has to stay light years; that Europe is not useful, is stepmothers to our country and wants us badly; then these people are the same people who today say that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have achieved too little from Europe. I think it is paradoxical that such a mechanism and reasoning should be set in motion towards Europe, which is crucial in order to enable our country to stand. If we had not had Europe, if we had not had the European Central Bank - even then the sovereignists explained to us that the European Central Bank was a killer instrument towards our country - the spread of Italy would have skyrocketed and we would be in trouble and we could not even imagine the economic instruments that you represented us today. I believe that Senator Bagnai and Mr Borghi should kneel on the chickpeas and look a hundred times for punishment. [[Comments]] for what they said about Europe in the past months, as well as the scientists themselves who criticized the Franco-German axis, when they met to meet the needs of our country, simply with a foolish nationalism. I am convinced that leading forces of opposition being against Europe, against central banks, against the Franco-German axis is against Italy, President. These same people next June 2 will manifest for the Feast of the Republic. Mr President, I do not want to quote exactly what Senator Salvini said about the Feast of the Republic: he said that there was nothing to celebrate, and I delete a bad word that was then used by Salvini, because otherwise I would end my colleague Giarrusso and end up in the senate's movements. Today we see these same people organizing a demonstration for the Feast of June 2nd, as if there were republicans there and here there were those who produce measures in contempt of the country. I also ask my colleagues in Forza Italia, the Senators of Forza Italia, not to follow the extremist political forces on this approach that takes them away from a process of construction at a time when there is a need for the country of unity. I also say this in relation to the photo that Tajani was forced to take: Salvini organized a meeting in a small terrace that had the size of a telephone booth so that he could not escape when taking the photo in opportunity. President, I am convinced that we have a lot to do. We cannot even listen to those within the majority - we also have in the majority - who think that we must become the 23rd province of the People's Republic of China. I believe that from this point of view, instead, we must organize a series of initiatives to restart - and many of them have already put in place - because otherwise, if we have kept this Government up without carrying out useful interventions for the country, then we would have built a path of self-referentiality and the exclusive maintenance of a status quo. President, the only crime that has grown in the period of lockdown is wear and tear. We have had requests for loans with a 100% increase from our companies. Just the other day I read an article in a newspaper that reported the testimony of an entrepreneur who told his experience with a usurer who introduced himself to him asking him the IBAN to pay 30,000 euros, closing: "Then we see". Let's think about the speed with which the wearer introduces himself into our business fabric, in the management of the pizzerias that in these days are reopening only partially (many decide not to reopen and those who reopen have a decrease of 80 percent). Well, if we allow organized crime to go in and run bars rather than clothing stores, which have had to throw away the winter collection, if we are slower than organized crime in erring economic resources, then the loans that banks must give - and they must do so quickly - we will have done a bad service. We will have given the signal that the state is not up to it and that the alternative is more credible. There are demands for 5 billion euros from companies: only one billion has been paid by banks compared to those required. We need to take action on this as well as, Mr President, we need to intervene on the rise in prices: there is a risk of an increase of EUR 536 per family, if we do not govern and help businesses, who very often dump the costs of sanitisation on consumers or who in any case have increased prices precisely because they do not succeed. The most famous increase is that of coffee to 1.30 euros, but the risk is overall and covers all kinds of basic necessities. Mr President, in July, when the measure that prevents dismissals will actually be interrupted, or we will have put this country on track or, if we think simply of acting with the assistance and resources that we have made available (the bonuses, the integration fund and all the necessary instruments, which must be extraordinary instruments), we risk this country collapsing. We must not get to this, which is why we must invest economic resources; we must negotiate more resources in Europe and above all spend them well, because the theme is not only having them: if we overdo and then there is something productive in this country, if there is a lack of real wealth that is not assistance, we risk that when the country reopens, and when it is permissible to fire, we will find ourselves in a condition of absolute difficulty. Well, then, the reopenings quickly, as you said, President Conte; well the cut of the IRAP (the alternative would have been the sovietization of our economy), so you made a political choice that we appreciated; well the regularizations that help Italian farmers, who lower the prices of Italian products, who make buy and sell Italian goods and not imported. Again, the instrument of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers is also good. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, please. FARAONE (IV-PSI). But now we must also act in the direction of infrastructure. We appreciated what you said about the shock plan to relaunch infrastructure: 120 billion that we must not ask anyone, Mr President, because we already have them. We simply have to unlock the works, interrupt the asphyxiating bureaucracy and a condition that does not see the country develop. And when you don't unlock the country, it means you do less than 960,000 jobs, as the ANCE told us. Similarly, Mr President, we need to act on the family act in order to put in place policies for the family and for women. A few days ago we approved in the Senate a motion in which we dealt with the issue of closure, lockdown, also with regard to the work of women. On this front we must take particular care because it will be a great emergency to which we must give effective answers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u43	Mr President, President Conte, one of the accusations that you and your ministers most often address to us of the opposition, particularly to us as Brothers of Italy, is to represent a hostile, stubborn and preliminary opposition. I would like to use the first part of my speech to try to deny this accusation, because from the beginning we have acknowledged to the Government that we have to act against an emergency and against a very insidious enemy, because unknown and really very dangerous, and we have said that probably some error was inevitable and therefore also excuseable and understandable. I would also like to add, intellectually speaking, that all of us in this House (and probably even those outside this House) if we had the opportunity to rewind the tape of the last few weeks and months, we would probably not say all the things we have said or would say differently. So, apart from these things that I had to acknowledge, Mr President, there are many other errors, often repeated, that are neither excuseable nor justifiable and that derive from precise political choices that you have made in complete autonomy and freedom: the first choice was self-sufficiency. You decide, you do and you do not listen to anyone, not even the suggestions of common sense, and they have reached dozens of them in these months and weeks. The second choice that we cannot share and which we condemn is that of ideology: still, reading the measures, we hear the ideological political grip of the union, in particular of the CGIL, and of the radical left, and in a moment of crisis this is the last thing we need. [[Applause]] We saw it in the Integration Fund and saw it in the decision, which really was not so urgent, to launch a sanatorium for illegal immigrants. Then there is the issue of confusion: this is a government, a majority, in confusion and confusing. You demonstrated this yesterday in this House when you acquitted and saved Minister Bonafede, not because you think he is a good minister, but because the alternative - you said it and it is on the record - is the vote and new elections. [[Applause]] What holds together a majority that should save the country is the fear of voting: nothing more. And then I think there's the most serious flaw, which is slowness. In an emergency you can excuse a lot of things, but you have to be quick, President, because if I need the emergency room, I call and ask for an ambulance, on the other side of the phone I can't get an answer of the kind we will send an ambulance after we have issued the decree that, unless agreed, will be boiled in seven days' time, because this doesn't help me, it hurts me and condemns me to death if I am an entrepreneur. [[Applause]] President, I will fly over quickly, because many Members have already said so this morning in the debate that preceded the disclosure, about the fact that you govern this country in an exceptional state that is not provided for by the Constitution, using simple decrees and ordinances and doing so often giving the impression that the constitutional rights of citizens are in its full availability, as if it were not the President of the Council, but something very different. I quickly overlook the fact that you often show indifference and hostility to the role of Parliament, oppositions and criticism in general, but I want to denounce the fact that you cannot think of turning this medical, political and economic emergency into a great media show that you and only you have as the protagonist, because we are transforming this pandemic - excuse me the term - into a television pandemic, in which you appear and reappear every night on television not to solve the problems of the Italians, but to announce that they will be solved, to communicate that they will be solved; when you do not know, the important thing is to communicate. Communicate what, President? [[Applause]] We have tried with good and bad manners, appealing to common sense (for example already in February and you fooled us), to put in the current accounts of Italians, especially small entrepreneurs, a down payment of some thousands of euros. You know that you can do it and it's easy; you can do it at speed through the Revenue Agency: no answer, because you know everything about you. Twenty governors - of twenty different regions, of the Centre, of the North and of the South, of the right, of the left and of the center - it took to make you understand that you were wrong all about reopenings and that the worst injustice is to treat all (all provinces, all regions, all entrepreneurs, good and bad) in the same way. We would expect from you, who have the great honour of being the representative of Italy, an appeal to the Italians to say that finally, thanks to the truly contribution of everyone, the phase of the bans has ended and that of the rules, based on responsibility and trust towards the citizens, who deserve it, Mr President, for the fair and correct way in which they have behaved in these very difficult months. It is a new phase of restart and hope, but not empty and rhetoric, made of aid, real money and liquidity, not tax credits to be collected in five years. I put myself in the shoes of a citizen - and I would like her to do so too - to whom the State has said - it was inevitable that she would do so - from tomorrow you stay at home, do not raise the shutters of your shop, for two or three months you do not collect a euro.Now that citizen asks and demands that the Government and the State be at his side and be his friends and his best allies. If the State does not help it, at least it will not hinder it with all the banking, trade union and ministerial bureaucracy. Now he has just announced that the mother of all the reforms will be simplification, but if I have to judge from what we have seen so far, there is not to be much optimism. How did the Government respond to the pain and suffering of families and businesses? With the care of Italy, which has not cared for a accident, as you also know; with the liquidity decree, in which there is no liquidity; with an April decree, which became May, which will be converted in June. Does that seem normal to you, up to the times, respectful to those who have respected the laws and have waited until now for the government to beat a blow? Do you know, Mr President, that opening too late means not being able to open and that doing so with rules that are impossible to comply with is opening to close after a week? Finally, we have read about the EUR 6 billion loan that FIAT asked for, to which a colleague of the PD also referred. In my small personal history, I can say that I am pro-industrial and pro-business, I know the whole supply chain and the automotive induced and I have nothing against FIAT, now FCA, but I love companies that love Italy, that do it when it comes to asking, but also giving, and that do it every day of the year, including the one in which you pay taxes. I therefore hope that you and your ministers will succeed in making an advantageous deal for everyone with FIAT (now FCA, Fiat Chrysler automobiles) and I ask you only one prayer: that the money and guarantees for FIAT-FCA arrive at least a minute after you have guaranteed the money to small traders, small artisans and small entrepreneurs, who have not yet seen a euro. I ask you, Mr President. Finally, in the margins of our President Giorgia Meloni's speech this morning, we have heard for the umpteenth time the accusation by some of the representatives of the majority of people of disrespect and sensitivity towards Minister Teresa Bellanova, whom I do not see in the Chamber, for her tears and her emotion. I personally believe that I have not disrespected anyone in this House, but if you demand respect for those tears, Mr President, you also have respect for those of those who have lost or are afraid of losing their jobs and for those entrepreneurs who have had to draw on their personal savings in order to anticipate the derogation, which - I am telling you - has not arrived at anyone. I would also like to understand the tragedy and bitterness of those who have seen a life of sacrifices and investments go up in smoke for their small shop or business. These are the invisible, the true invisible, President Conte and Minister Bellanova! And without these invisibles, Italy does not start again and goes nowhere. Finally - unfortunately, my time is over, but I trust in the generosity of President Casellati, who has already been generous with my colleagues - we will open an emergency debate on civil protection. I would like to say, however, Mr Conte, that you chose Dr Arcuri, I do not know for what merits, as an extraordinary commissioner with a simple task: to guarantee masks, shirts, tests, swabs, reagents. He has entrusted Dr. Arcuri with a commissionerial management, which means that he can do whatever he wants by way of derogation from any law. It is a scandal that this has not yet happened. [[Applause.]] So if Dr. Arcuri is unable to do his job, go do another job for his own good and for the good of the country. Finally, we are doing our job, Mr President, we are opposing. Doing the opposition means trying to improve, correct and counter, with all the tools that demography allows us, a government that we consider seriously not up to the gigantic challenge to be faced. We here, Mr President, have been chosen, candidates and finally elected. We at the Brothers of Italy have added something else: a pact, signed with the voters, to make clear our loyalty and our transparency with the program that everyone has voted for. We will continue to denounce the limits and incompetence of this Government, on every occasion and in every place where we will be allowed, because, in doing so, we do our duty and we believe to make our contribution to the good of this nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u44	Senator Errani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is right to start from an appreciation of President Conte's work in an unprecedented situation, where no one was "learned." No country in the world was prepared for this pandemic. How many statements have been made that have proved completely unfounded. You see, President Conte, I am well aware that you receive many criticisms: they are part of the democratic dialectic. There are also many very instrumental and unmotivated polemics, but what matters is that, with intellectual honesty, no one can really deny that the management of the first phase, in its fundamental choices, has been a decisive management to combat the virus and protect this country. No one can argue with that, objectively, and that is an important point. Now I would like to say, without rhetoric, to my colleagues in the opposition, that the time will come to assess the limits and errors that, in an unprecedented situation, we have had to face. We will do so, and we will have to do it seriously, to learn from what happened not to shoot faults. We will have to do this: from medical devices to the question of communication. We will also have to do so on the responses of regional systems, not in order to make political processes (it would be absurd), but in order to understand that, if there are objectively different effects in one region and in another, we will have to reason on what the reasons are. The reasons, for me, lie in a strategic point, which in recent years, with so many responsibilities, has been underestimated and which includes various elements: primary care, territorial health, ability to prevent. [[Applause.]] On these points we must reason to be better, to learn and not to blame others. The important thing is that the country and its citizens have understood, even with an extraordinary effort, starting with doctors. There is much talk of the rigidity of the public system, but doctors and healthcare professionals all, from Lombardy to Sicily, have shown flexibility. Just think about the ICU posts. We must be grateful to them. We cannot forget the more than 31,000 victims, which is a problem on the shoulders of each of us and which questions all of us. If we want to put Italy first - I hope - we will not escape a serious debate that will allow us to make a qualitative leap. President, the community and its values have been rediscovered. Common values and common goods have been rediscovered, first of all on health care. President, I would like to talk about something else now. Phase 2 has begun and is even more difficult than phase 1. Phase 1 wasn't easy: closing everything wasn't easy. That's why I appreciate your effort and the fact that you put your face in it. Now, though, we have to live with the virus. We know that, and unfortunately, we have to live with it for some time. We must therefore prevent the health crisis from becoming a dramatic economic crisis. The risk is obvious. Colleagues, excuse me if I insist, but above all we must prevent this economic crisis from turning into an unprecedented social conflict, each for itself. Politics must keep the country together - this is the meaning of the message that the President of the Republic sends us - also on different political positions. ( [[Applause]] ). Politics and these institutions must keep the country together, otherwise it will be difficult to deal with the problem. This requires not underestimating the health issue and there is risk. He's not a free man. Let's always say it together; let's all say it: we wear the mask even when we think it is not necessary. No to free everyone because, if the pandemic returns, the problem of this country will become even more serious. Secondly, managing this phase requires responsibility, certainty and a clear plan of change. These are the three conditions. With regard to responsibility, I appreciated the agreement with the regions and local self-governments. The most popular sport in this country is not football, but to blame others and, instead, the main theme is to share responsibility. ( [[Applause]] ). This is the message we have to give the country. Autonomy is not a do-it-yourself and, in fact, autonomy receives damage when the idea that it is a do-it-yourself is passed. Let me tell you this for language hygiene. In this country there is only one governor, and he is the Governor of the Bank of Italy, the others are presidents. [[Applause.]] This is about an idea of the organization of the institutions, I do not say it in controversy, because I appreciated the work of the Regions from this point of view. I say this for the municipalities, for the local authorities, that they are decisive in the turning point initiative. We will discuss Title V and differentiated autonomy and I hope that we will be able to get away from the terrible bite between possible returns of centralism that, in my opinion, would be disastrous, and the idea of what I call federalism of abandonment, that is, each for himself. Our country is a country and Article 120 of the Constitution clearly states that everyone cannot determine the opening or not of the borders of its territory, because its territory has no borders, the borders are Italian ones. [[Applause.]] The idea, then, Mr President, is that on loyal cooperation, which is a constitutional principle, Mr President, we must make progress. Differentiation is right, but not because there is a political mediation. The differentiation is made with respect to the objective epidemiological conditions of a territory and on the basis of a common plant in Italy. I believe that this is the result that before all the Presidents of the Regions, together with you, wanted. We are now discussing a decree containing very important measures. Allow me only to say publicly and clearly, not with a post, nor with side announcements, that there are very important aspects, for me it is fundamental that of the times. On the emergency income we have put too many stakes, I mean clearly. [[Applause.]] I wouldn't want us to find out that in August there wasn't a euro for those who have no cover and that's a problem. I make a few proposals to you, Mr President. On the school the government has made an important and just choice, it is the highest price we are paying, you said it in your recent interview, but here the opening of September is a great challenge. It takes a qualitative leap, a blow of the kidneys, because we must open up the school and guarantee this service to families, workers, workers and entrepreneurs. [[Applause.]] To do this, we must make a pact with the world of school, which is able to make us overcome some very difficult challenges. On tourism, in the care of Italy it was planned to create a table with all interested parties, my advice is to gather this table and agree with the economic forces of tourism the best ways to make a qualitative leap. What is there - you said so yourself - is not enough. We must also understand, Mr President - and we could work on this - that the tax credit does not respond to everyone and that perhaps we must reward the opener, because we must help him reduce the fixed costs. In fact, we must definitely reopen to look not only at this season, but at what will come. The tourist season is an important issue and I absolutely agree with the bureaucracy, Mr President, but with three clear points. One said it: fighting crime. Secondly, labour rights. Thirdly, environmental protection. We can't step back. We need a strategy. Everyone here says that with the coronavirus everything will change. I'd be very worried if, after the coronary artery, nothing changed. We must be change. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u46	Senator Bini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u47	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I appreciated President Conte's report, especially in the passage on the fact that the worst is behind us. We believe and hope so. Certainly the evolution of the epidemiological curve of these days makes us understand that the measures taken by this Government have been right. President Errani said it well before me: it was an affair in which no one had the truth in his pocket, not even scientists. It was a new virus and it was difficult to understand the measures to be taken. I think that this Government, in the difficulties and errors that we will eventually have the opportunity to assess later, has done things in a sudden and effective way. I believe that everything that was possible has been done and that we will have to continue in this direction. Unfortunately - I say this having listened to Mr Ciriani's speech - I am sorry that the opposition says that nothing has been done for the world of work, businesses, families and citizens. Many things have been done; many others are still present in the so-called relaunch decree and I believe that we will be able to improve them within Parliament. What contribution has the opposition made? Criticism, polemics about everything, continuing to vote for motions of distrust and doing the House's own frightful jobs? This was the contribution of the opposition. [[Applause]] We have not seen a proactive contribution of ideas. Do we want to talk about the hospital in Fiera Milano and the joke that this story has become? [[Applause]] Please, let's stop and think about the country's emergency and what the government is doing. We try to correct the things that need to be improved, but no one tries here to be a teacher because I think there are few teachers. Since my time is limited, I would like to focus on two issues that I am most concerned with: health and local authorities. As for health, I would like to stress that the EUR 3.5 billion allocated for investment is a historical fact that this country had never seen before. [[Applause.]] In the same way, I would like to stress how enormous the investment in intensive therapies and extra beds has been, as well as the strategy for increasing tampons and testing. We must continue in this direction. After this emergency, let us not forget - this is my recommendation - health care. We must not go back to normal, not because our system was not good, but because this story made us realize that for too long we have cut in a sector where there can be no cuts. Wherever we can cut, but not on universal services. Let us bear this in mind, Mr Conte. The second question relates to local authorities. The conclusion of my speech is that I care very much because mine is not a central government idea with a detached territory but a widespread government. Our mayors, our provincial presidents, who are in trenches every day, know better than all the needs of our territories, see the needs and are able to collect the demands. We worked to give three and a half billion local authorities. Perhaps we will need to re-integrate that fund but in the meantime it is a first important signal, as the monitoring table that has been activated is important. We work, however, on the issue of simplification: the country starts again also and above all from the local authorities. We give them a way to simplify procedures, to invest, to tender, having the staff they design and who can start the races quickly. That's what they're asking. I know you've worked on it. I know you're working on it. We really do a work of simplification that allows our mayors and our provincial presidents who are on the territory to restart the country, because the restart passes also and above all from their legs, from their heads and their ideas. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u48	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u49	Mr President, we have listened carefully and are trying to bring about some sort of solution. I heard a lot of people say we were good, good and fast. I think there's someone at home who hasn't seen a euro cashier in two months. More than two million Italian citizens are waiting for the integration fund. Scrolling through the hundreds of pages of the new decree we have seen that there is also a different view of the calendar by the government and the majority. There are nine weeks of cover for the Integration Fund for workers from here to the end of October, although the weeks - but this is not a sovereignist or legal choice - from here to the end of October there are not nine but twenty-two, so there will be a clear problem, which poses mathematics and not politics, compared to the thirteen weeks discovered for workers and entrepreneurs. If it is impossible to fire until 17 August and the integration fund expires at the end of June, what do millions of entrepreneurs, especially small entrepreneurs, do in July and August? Who's paying? We would like to have answers on this, dear President-in-Office of the Council. I remember, in fact, that on April 6 you guaranteed 400 billion immediately to Italian companies and the data, to date, say that they have been worked - not data - 13 billion. Between 13 and 400 there is a big difference. We have proposed a solution, and we propose it again: the Swiss model. The small Switzerland, to date, has already paid out 40 billion francs on the company's current accounts, answering 124,000 questions by filling out a sheet. I'm sure there's someone at home who went to the bank five times, filling out five different forms and hasn't seen a euro to date. [[Applause]] You can't ask the banks to do anything. You have the power. If you rely on the good heart of the banks, then we've got the wrong planet. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, it is not me but the 24 Hours Sun, which is not a sovereignist or legist newspaper, on the front page of yesterday headlines: I raise, we need 98 implementing decrees. There are 400 pages, 441 articles in the decrees, 98 implementing decrees. Our solution is the Genoa model. The bridge was built in a month, without infiltration and without death. The problem, however, is that this government is hostage to the CGIL. [[Applause]] We cannot be a hostage country of the CGIL, that does not want vouchers in agriculture, does not want vouchers in tourism, does not want to stop the code of contracts. [[Applause]] We did the work at home, and so, Mr President-in-Office, at the end of my speech, I will hand over to you the draft law of the League in Senate Group on the suspension of the Procurement Code until December 2026. [[Applause]] This awaits businesses, not chatter, not smiles, but work, work and work. Proposal and solution. [[Applause]] We have heard that someone should be ashamed because he defends national interest. No. For us Italy and Italians come first. You told us from those benches... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u50	No one's been interrupted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u51	SALVINI Matteo (L-SP-PSd'Az). There are people here who laugh, while at home there are people who do not have bread to eat. You, before laughing, bring in respect to those who are at home and do not have a lira. And if you want to laugh, get out of this House. If you have so much fun, go to the bar and laugh; make yourself a coffee and go and laugh outside, out of respect for those who are at home and are suffering. What's so funny? They pay you to laugh? That's crazy. [[Protests. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u52	It cannot be that there is a respect in this House that does not apply to everyone. I filmed everyone when they were interrupted. Have respect: this is the principle of democracy. We are in a free Parliament, where everyone speaks and everyone has spoken. I've filmed all the interruptions. [[Protests. Comments.]] Sit down and put on the mask; stop it. Please, Senator Salvini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I do not ask the senators of the PD and the Movimento 5 Stars respect for me; I ask respect for the 30,000 dead and for the Italians who suffer at home and who have not seen a euro of the money promised. And if you're laughing, go laughing. Madam, go out to laugh; go to Villa Borghese and laugh as much as you want, but not in here, out of respect for Italy and the Italians. It's an incredible thing! [[Applause. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u54	Put on your mask and shut up. I never like - I said it yesterday too - that he protests in one sense. When each one of you speaks and interrupts you, I take all of you back. Have mutual respect; we are in Parliament and Parliament means that everyone can express their views. And that's all there is to it. [[Comments]] Please, Senator Salvini. Look at me, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u55	It is no wonder that those who have been ironic about the deaths of my Lombardy this morning continue to laugh in this House. No wonder, from some people I don't expect anything else; but let's move on. [[Applause]] To these ironies I answer not with my own words, but with the words of Professor De Donno, chief of pneumology at the public hospital Carlo Poma of Mantua, who said: we are doing and we have done everything possible, let us work in peace, stop with the polemics. So if you don't want to listen to me, listen to Professor De Donno, who first in Italy adopted plasma treatment for coronary artery patients. And if anything someone answers, in Rome and in the Lazio Region, on why the citizens of Rome and Lazio cannot enjoy the same care as plasma and plasma bank; maybe there are different economic interests compared to plasma treatment, which is free and democratic. [[Applause]] Maybe someone doesn't like the idea of gratuitousness. But let's move on. Where to get the money? The Italians, unlike some people in this House, have given exceptional proof in these four days. Not the MES. Someone told us on unified networks and on TG1, for a month, that the MES was a gift and that saying no to the MES was crazy stuff, because it was a loan without conditions and without interest; only crazy people would say no to the MES, that it has no conditions and has no interests. But we've found out - hello! - in these days that Greece says no to the ESM, France says no to the ESM, Spain says no to the ESM, Portugal says no to the ESM; evidently everyone abroad, except the Democratic Party, understood that the ESM is a fraud. [[Applause]] The answer is the Italian treasury vouchers purchased by Italian savers, as has happened in these four days: more than 20 billion euros of Treasury bonds on advantageous terms signed by Italian savers and Italian institutions. We do not overdo our children with Berlin or Beijing; we keep in Italy the future of our country. The school: the great absentee. At this moment, while we are here, in France, a country that - alas - has the same number of deaths as us - is in class 1.4 million children. I repeat, in neighboring France. We are the only ones in Europe who have not yet been able to tell their parents if and when their children will return to school [[Applause]] , kindergarten, elementary school, middle school and high school. But what phase 2 is with closed schools? But if Mom and Dad work how do you talk about restarting? And we're talking about France. Notify Minister Azzolina that in France, Switzerland, Germany, Belgium, Greece, everywhere in Europe, kindergartens, primary schools, middle schools and high schools are reopening. I'm sorry someone shakes their heads on government benches, because they do. If someone has the money or luck of being able to pay babysitters or having grandparents upstairs is an account, but also think of those who are not privileged, the clerk, the salesman or the worker who cannot leave a seven-year-old at home. [[Applause]] Distance learning: explain it to the hotel or geometries. But obviously there's someone here who lives on Mars. There are those who laugh and there are those who cry, I answer to the Minister of Agriculture Bellanova and - alas - also to the Minister of the Interior, who are preparing a very dangerous sanatoria. I say that as a former Minister, I read the text and do not heal some workers who had the contract of employment, so they go to collect strawberries. No, it says in the decree that they will be able to apply for a sanatorium in order to obtain a residence permit - and that I do not say so much to those who are in the Chamber, because they know and pretend not to know, as to those who are at home - all those who are illegally present in this country at the date of 31 October 2019. Translated: it has nothing to do with colfs, caregivers and farmers; you are using the virus for the largest sanatorium of illegal immigrants in recent years [[Applause.]] Without a contract of employment, without a residence permit, zero: this is written. And we will try to change that by working in Parliament. [[Applause]] A farmer in the province of Cuneo, who I don't know - I read from "la Repubblica" - so let alone, he is not a sovereignist organ -, Michele Ponso, who has a farm, does not use sanatoria, which serves to give the document for six months to those who may be dealing now in front of the Termini station or in front of the central station [[Applause.]] This is your sanatoria. This serious farmer from Saluzzo says: in forty-eight hours I received four hundred questions from citizens mainly Italians to come to work in the fields, and they will come to work with me this year a cook, an advertising chart and an Italian hairdresser of sixty years. So before crying for the poor underground, take care of the Italians without work and hope. [[Applause.]] I'm asking you, please. I'm telling President Conte, who's asking for cooperation with the people who are at home. On zero bureaucracy with the moratorium of the code of contracts, on the model Genoa, on the money to the enterprises and the Swiss model with a module, on the coupons of the Italian treasury tax-free in order to avoid to cage in the MES, on the Cassa Integrazione renewed automatically like in France, on the reopening of the schools like it happens in all the rest of Europe we will present proposals, amendments, improvements. And we hope to be more listened to and luckier than we have been until today, since all of us, unlike what someone thinks, have at heart our country. Those who have been at home and have not had the integration fund for two months are not left or right, but are Italian citizens who are fed up with promises and chatter and need an answer today. I close with a reflection. I wonder what would have happened in this House and outside this House, since yesterday we talked about justice, about what I read today in an Italian newspaper, on newsstands, "The Truth". I read what would appear to be extracts from a magistrate's chat: Salvini is right, but we must attack him; Salvini on immigration has people with him, but we have to stop him; Salvini's a piece of shit. I wonder if it is normal, for a free and democratic country, for someone who should administer justice in the name and on behalf of the Italian people, to use these words towards a Minister of the Republic and a citizen of this country. [[Applause]] It makes me kind of like that from the left, you who are always guaranteed and by the way, you didn't say a word [[Applause]] , about a shame, that in any other country in the world would open a television debate and national audience. If, however, to be called a shit, that must be stopped, is a Minister of the League, all is well [[Applause]] You saved Bonafede in exchange for some chair, but you are not doing a good service to Italy. Mr President, good luck and good work! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u56	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the coronavirus pandemic is certainly an emergency and an exceptional fact in the life of our country. In exceptional times, we need an exceptional commitment from everyone. Everyone must collaborate, whatever role they play in society, to get us out, with as little damage as possible from such a difficult moment and many have done so. This was done by doctors and nurses, at the risk of their lives, by treating the sick and by doing tests, by entrepreneurs, professionals, traders, workers, farmers, law enforcement agencies, who have put forward all those essential services, thanks to which, despite the exceptional nature of the situation, everyone has had basic services necessary and indispensable. There were those entrepreneurs, professionals and traders who carried out the life of the companies, keeping them open when they could work and also avoiding that they were shipwrecked, when they could not work, putting out of their own pocket the money of the integration fund that did not arrive. Mothers and fathers of families, grandparents, who cared for children, with schools closed and with a teaching distance, who in 48 percent of cases, according to a reliable survey, failed to follow, for a number of reasons [[Applause]] This is a problem that should be posed, alongside a certain triumphalism. Everyone did so, respecting the rules imposed by the Government, often not easy to understand, and, even when they were easy to understand, seeing the situation of their company and their investments, maybe seeing probably cut off the life of a small company that was leaving, was really a heavy sacrifice. However, everyone has respected the rules. There has been an exceptional commitment from everyone. Was there also from the government? There has certainly been a very large effort, with a great deal of presence and a great deal of measures, but unfortunately it seems to me that we have been more exceptional in using instruments that have never been used before for this type of measures than in the effectiveness of the measures themselves. The Constitution, written in 1947, provided for emergency cases. I have heard that the Constitution did not provide for emergency cases, yet in 1947 they knew well what an emergency was, since a devastating war had just ended and twenty years earlier there had been an epidemic similar to that of today, but that in Italy it probably caused a number of deaths ten times greater (not even the certain number is known). Well, there was an instrument: the decree-law. The Government has decided to use another instrument, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which obviously seems the same in the eyes of the general public, but the difference is that it does not pass through Parliament which therefore cannot propose amendments, so it is not subject to a series of controls. This is not the case with the decree-law which Parliament can immediately examine and which, if so, could also cause it to lapse immediately. We, who care primarily for the good of the Italians and for an effective and prompt response to the emergency, have not attacked on this point, must acknowledge this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, although we have many doubts, on the contrary, the certainty that this was not the appropriate instrument. First of all, however, let's try to save the ship and then see if the ways to save it have been suitable. Months of emergency, task force of 400 people who ended up replacing Parliament and one says: However, the results have been effective. The results were not effective: the rules were so confused that there had to be interpretative circulars. You yourself, Mr President, at one of your numerous press conferences at the time of the highest ratings, had to interpret the interpretative circulars and you had doubts as to whether children could or could not leave the house, doubts as to what kind of activity they could do and what kind of work companies could do. Companies, even these days, are in a position not to know exactly what is in order and what is not. The certainty they have about the risk of getting fines [[Applause]] , to have to pay taxes and to have at most a delay in payment, except for some laudable exceptions. It takes certainty. If the written laws of your fist are confused, without even having to have the trouble to approve them in the Council of Ministers and to go through Parliament, then we must really say that this was not an effective instrument, because uncertainty is the worst thing for economic activities, for those who do business: even those who have a simple shop must know what they must and can do Monday or Tuesday next, can not wait the last moment and then risk the fine. Otherwise it happens that, in addition to all the other problems, there are those who, in the doubt between reopening, keeping a company and still keeping employees or closing everything, choose to close everything, because it is always better than being with the State that blocks the company for some reason and that even then provides fines not knowing well why. We are well aware of the limits that have been reached, we know of the family fined because it led the child to a checkup after severe surgery. [[Applause]] , of the husband who went to pick up the wife who left work at one o'clock in the night, fined because the lady had to necessarily return by public transport [[Applause]] , with the realities that, as is known, there are at a certain time, especially in large cities. The results, on the other hand, were these. For masks, after months we have not yet reached a definition: the only thing certain was the irrational limit to the price. You don't need the price limit, you have to provide it at a lower price and provide it for free to those who really need it. The only thing of the masks that has remained, on the other hand, is VAT at 22% [[Applause]] : you could really do without this. It is a medical garrison, it is indispensable, it is mandatory, yet VAT remains at the highest level. Now we have an answer: there is no longer the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, we have a decree-law, the decree I raise issued in these days, very simple: there are 266 articles, hundreds of pages. Written on one line would be 2,100 meters long, twenty football fields. It is a measure in which it is difficult to distangle, in which then there is above all a detachment from reality. When companies in the tourism and trade sectors are told, for example, to do the necessary work to comply with the rules, what is being done in return? A tax credit: tourist facilities are invited to host people with a voucher given just to encourage people to go to our facilities - noble intention - giving them a tax credit in exchange. But what tax, if these are companies in loss, that have already lost the receipts of the past months? They face a situation in which we do not know how many tourists will arrive, because from abroad for now they can not arrive; as for Italians, if it is right to say to make the holidays in Italy - meanwhile to those who have the money to make them and that it is right that try to spend them in Italy - the problem is that who has the enterprise, who has the hotel and the bathing establishment how does he know if these people will come? [[Applause.]] He certainly has to spend the money to settle and, in return, in a few years, if he happens to have some profits, he can pay some less tax, but meanwhile the liquidity, that promise widely, is not there. There's too little. There are forecasts such as bonuses on the purchase of scooters and bicycles; great, commendable. But they are irrational rules because they apply only to scooters and bicycles in cities with a population of over 50,000 inhabitants. Therefore, in my province, that of Turin, 310 municipalities out of 315 will not be able to access this good; precisely the places where it is easier, among other things. [[Applause.]] It is easier to cycle to Luserna San Giovanni than to Turin. That said, let us encourage its use everywhere at least, not only in large cities. Let us think, then, of aid to equal schools. You can't say that you haven't done anything about peers because you have allocated 70 million, that is about 80 euros (not monthly) for each child, for each student. [[Applause.]] The 900,000 peer students will cost the state a total of 7-8 billion if they go to public schools. There are 120,000 people between teachers and other staff who would lose their jobs if these schools shut down, and risk closing if it continues like this, if there is no real and substantial help, not 80 euros per child, which is better than nothing, but risks being as if it were nothing. We've made a lot of proposals. I have heard colleagues from the majority wondering what we have done. We have proposed a series of interventions: we have proposed the voucher, at least in the fields of agriculture, tourism, for baby-sitters, for basic sport, to ensure that Italians can work. [[Applause.]] You, on the other hand, have been worried about doing the sanatoria. We have now heard from Senator Salvini news that we hope are not real, but it would be a general sanatoria. Let's start working the Italians in order and then think about other things. [[Applause.]] We asked for decertification in order to obtain the funding, because otherwise it is promised funding that does not arrive; we asked that those who receive the income of citizenship go to work when at least it has occasion; we asked for the moratorium for the rents: people and in particular closed businesses and shops have to pay the rent and the landlord, in the light of the rules in force, must pay the taxes even if they do not pay the rent. That's what we asked for. We have asked for real aid for equal schools; we have asked for aid for unused bills; we have asked for VAT to be removed from the masks. We received a series of nos. At this point I say one thing: we focus on Italy's freedom, labour, certain rules, freedom and the rights of citizens as their own, not granted by the State. The state must work to guarantee these rights, they are not concessions. President Conte, you have said so many times that you allow this and that in press conferences. No, it is not you who allows it; it is the Constitution that allows it [[Applause]] , and, in exceptional cases, these freedoms can be limited by clear temporary and possibly effective laws. The State must be the one that protects citizens' rights, not the Republic of fines, prohibitions and subsidies. [[Applause.]] I have the feeling that citizens are aware of this Government, such as that of ineffective rain subsidies, fines and bans. That's not gonna go on. We must focus on the creativity and work of Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u58	Senator Morra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u59	President-in-Office of the Council. - (FR) Mr President, I should like to thank you for what you are doing, Mr Conte, not simply on behalf of the majority, but of many, perhaps especially outside this House. Many have spoken the word "responsibility" in these hours. Responsibility is something easy to say, a little more challenging to assume. Few know that, for example, John Kennedy - whom you know well - argued that every decision must start with the will to make that decision. This was said with the effective words "every accollishment starts with the decision to try": there is the will to start to change. Some in this House, especially Senator Errani, have hoped that what we are experiencing is the possibility of a new beginning, because otherwise everything will be useless. I would like to address Senator Salvini, even if he is no longer in the Chamber, to tell him that some of the things he has said certainly have a basis and a justification, because it is absolutely unacceptable, for example, that, although in private chats, judges judge a minister in the way he was judged. On this, Senator Salvini, with whom I have been in fierce controversy in the past, can only be right, because a magistrate is still part of a third body (the judiciary); there is a clear distinction between legislative power, executive power and judicial power and, as far as I can think otherwise, there are laws that regulate mutual respect between powers, in case - God is out of control and free - that kind of attitude should be prevalent. [[Applause]] It is equally true that Senator Salvini, unlike other opposition leaders who have spoken, no matter how much he has started with a "trying to bring some solution," has indicated possibilities that materially are not in our availability. We could also immediately have enough liquidity to inflate the current accounts of the Italians. Maybe. I wish we could make up for the mistakes made even maybe by those who ruled at the time and maybe there was also someone who now forgets to have made some mistakes. [[Applause]] Many mistakes have been made, but the President-in-Office of the Council - this has been pointed out by the previous speaker - also said that we could certainly do more and better, demonstrating that there is a clear awareness of the need to do more and better. I would add, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we should do this even more quickly, because - as we say in Tuscany, even if it is not my homeland - certain treatments are useless to dead father. We need to be quick, and to be quick, we need to sburocratize. Of course, we must make everything useless, precisely because it is useless, a legacy of the past and we must cancel it. [[Applause]] I wonder: we are now with a situation in the Government wanted by an electoral law that has been designed against someone, inheriting that bureaucracy that everyone in words wanted and want to fight, except then, pontificating with laws and legends, raise it up to make it, as Max Weber wanted, a harp that weighs down and then becomes a tumor, because bureaucracy too often becomes a self-referential structure that drains vital resources, subtracting it from civil society and the heart of the Italian community and - I add - not only Italy. I used to mention a Tuscan saying, no matter how much Tuscany is not my homeland, because you, Senator Salvini, have spoken about Lombardy. He said someone was ironic about the deaths of his Lombardy. I would say that we are all human beings, whether we were born in Lombardy, in Puglia, or in the Central African Republic: none of us decides that. We are human beings insofar as the particularism of certain positions is overcome through the culture of universalism, so what is mine and I demand for myself must recognize others. [[Applause]] And so here we are telling some truths: for example, we are struggling to reach an agreement with local authorities and regions that, in the end, through a dialogue that has also been suffered and tearing, has produced results for which, little by little, not the restart, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but a restart on different bases, this country must have it. We will have to assume the responsibility to change so much, because in the Lombardy Region obviously something must not have worked [[Comments]] , if about half of the victims were concentrated there. For all of us, we must cry and show understanding, but about half of the victims - who are victims of our country - are concentrated in an area that has clearly shown that it is unable to face a pandemic. [[Protests. Comments..]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u60	Colleagues, let Senator Morra speak. It can be shared or not, but it must be able to express its opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u61	MORRA (M5S). In fact, health policy choices were made - and I quote one Member of the Republic - for which territorial health was penalised, concentrating in hospitals the only health response that could be given. When the emergency came, this solution proved completely ineffective and also within the world of the Regions governed by other fronts were given different solutions with far more effective results. This is the historical truth, this is rationality. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u62	You can't interrupt: what I said before for Senator Salvini also applies to the hint Morra. Each one expresses what he believes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u63	[[Applause.]] MORRA (M5S). President Alberti Casellati, I would like to remind those who clearly did not understand that it is my pride, Senator Romeo, as a adoptive Calabrian, to have known that two Bergamo patients have been treated in the hospital in Catanzaro, because this means national solidarity. [[Applause. Protests. Call the president back.]] And then, Mr President, I think it is a source of pride for everyone to have a health system that can offer treatment and treatment even to those who are not resident in the region. [[Reiterate protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u64	Senators Augussori and Nisini, let us finish: one can say what he wants. Sit down, colleagues. Senator Morra, talk to me, though, and keep going.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u65	MORRA (M5S). Yes, Mr. President, exactly as Senator Salvini did, right? [[Applause.]] So, I think it's a source of pride, and maybe that hasn't been understood. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u66	Get upstairs and put on your mask! Senator Augussori, sit down. Stop it, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u67	MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I believe that, in our policy concept, there is nothing greater than the capacity to show solidarity. Just as, with pride, I claimed the ability of Calabrian health care to have treated two patients who came from Bergamo, I think it is a source of pride for all Lombards to recognize... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u68	Senator Morra, look at me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u69	[[Protests]] Senator Morra, I invite you to conclude. MORRA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to ask the President-in-Office for special attention. This point was quickly mentioned by someone, but this morning we also heard about yet another operation concerning corruption in the public health sector in Sicily. Out of an amount of about 600 million euros, there was someone boasting of taking 5%. Now, it is right to protect the common goods, it is right to work for public health, for a public school, for a service of support for businesses and workers, in the perspective of the thought of Adriano Olivetti, never too studied, but it is just as right to make sure that all this happens not by breaking down all the rules, but by finding the right rules, by making work who is honest and, let me also say, preventing, with the utmost severity, that, in the name of the emergency, you can get what is not to be done. [[Applause.]] This country, in fact, will simply stand up if we start to respect the rules. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u70	Please, I say what you have to do and you don't have to do. Do not create assemblies. Senator, you who keep protesting, sit down! MORRA (M5S). This country needs to abide by the rules. Also on these occasions you can see who has at heart the needs of the whole that we call Country and who, instead, must bring water to its mill to seek consent and to seek visibility. The seriousness of the behaviour of each of us will be verified by the ability to give concrete answers to this country. I'll finish with some data. It has been said that a regularization, a sanatorium, is being carried out. I don't want to get into this. I would like to remind you that 634,000 were applications for regularisation accepted in 2002 by the Bossi-Fini Act and 294,744 were received in 2009, when he was Minister of the Interior Roberto Maroni.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u71	[[Applause.]] I am asking everyone, because this is a matter for all of us: but if there are illegals, it is not a problem for the individual state. Clearly, it is Europe and the world that will have to tackle these problems in a compact way. One cannot imagine, in fact, a closed world and we have verified it and we are verifying it precisely in these weeks. Only that flows must be governed and, then, to govern them, we must also fight certain phenomena that, perhaps, are triggered by someone who wants to have cheap work. [[Applause.]] This is a challenge. We put people's rights before the profits of the markets. If you like, the President-in-Office of the Council has repeatedly said that there is a possibility of dialogue. At this point, it's up to you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u72	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u74	Please, if you don't want to be in this House, clear out because I don't want to see any gatherings. I see too many people. Please clear out. Anyone who doesn't want to be in the Chamber, go outside.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u75	I call Senator Romeo. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr. President. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u76	Stop yelling. Anyone who doesn't want to listen, come down and go out.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u77	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to remind you of what we have read and learned this morning and about which Senator Salvini spoke earlier. I am referring to the information and interceptions published in the daily newspaper "The Truth" about some messages that some magistrates exchanged, which certainly represent a very serious fact for our country. I say this because then this serious fact concerns a little 'all those who make politics in this country: what reported towards Senator Salvini we can imagine that it may have been reported also towards many other people or politicians. Some magistrates, among other things also of different currents on the occasion highlight and criticize the then minister Salvini, as well as Vice Premier: from what is seen from the intercepts on the security decree it would seem that they say that he is right but that he must attack; indeed, regarding a search for some elements concerning the budgets of the party of the League it is even said that Salvini must be stopped. It is as if there was the will to consciously attack former Minister Salvini, regardless of the merit of the matter and what Salvini did. ( [[Applause]] ). This is a very serious fact, I do not remember the precedents so precise and detailed. What you're asking is that a magistrate can't help but be independent. ( [[Applause).]] Faced with these facts, at this point we wonder with what serenity the former minister Matteo Salvini, today senator, can face the trial against him in Catania. With what serenity of judgment can Senator Salvini face this? We call on the President of the Republic - who is also the President of the Supreme Council of the judiciary - to intervene, because it concerns everyone. I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for these extra minutes which you have given me, given that this issue is important. I ask myself, but we should all ask ourselves: how do we do in this climate and with these conditions to work as politicians for the good and for the interests of our citizens and our country? [[Applause]] regardless of our political ideas and proposals? Policy must be put in a position to be able to exercise its functions freely. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u78	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u80	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the value of the dates is very important and not just for the exact day, for this reason I am speaking today. Yesterday we could not forget a dramatic event that shocked the territory of Emilia-Romagna, and that cannot be forgotten even during the emergency Covid-19: the earthquake of 2012. It was May 20, but then followed another shock on May 29, which interested the Provinces of Bologna, Ferrara, Modena, Reggio Emilia, hit 54 municipalities and the four capitals, causing 28 deaths and 300 wounded, with 45,000 displaced and about 13 billion euros of damage. For eight years, the days of 20 and 29 May for us Emilians evoke a moment that we cannot forget, but that we must and we want to remember first of all in memory of the victims, displaced persons and the heavy damage suffered by the territories of the Provinces of Modena, Ferrara, Bologna and Reggio Emilia that have been affected. Despite the emergency Covid-19 (which by analogy makes us try the same moods, even if with the earthquake "all out" with the Covid "all inside"), an unexpected event for which we feel unprepared, has caused some slowdown, today, after eight years, we can say that the process of post-sysm reconstruction is being completed: 16,000 homes, 5,400 economic activities again available and 95 percent of the families returned to their homes. All this thanks to laws and procedures adopted for the territory and the synergy between regional and state government, who have worked in close contact to understand the needs. From 2012 to today, a total of €6.4 billion has been granted, of which €4.9 billion has already been spent, paid out and paid to people and businesses (€1.5 billion only in the last year). In the public reconstruction many projects have been recovered and financed, started especially in the last period when the acceleration on public buildings was decided. It has begun to rebuild - I must say - with such sensitivity starting from the schools (on which I believe we will now have to focus our attention again). I would like to remind you that the largest biomedical district in Europe is located in the areas affected by the earthquake. Precisely this productive fabric during the emergency of the coronavirus has never stopped the productions and, in maximum health security, has been able to make available, not only of Emilia-Romagna but of the whole country. Now, however, in the final phase of post-sysm reconstruction, we must engage the beginning of post-Covid reconstruction, which is putting a strain on employment, the productive fabric, families, social cohesion. We need to create new jobs, focusing on innovation - as we said earlier - having in mind the lesson that Covid has taught us in its drama. There is a need to support businesses and support families. The Emilians, like all Italians, are accustomed to the challenges and to tucking their sleeves into difficulties. This is the time to share everyone in a cohesive way to redesign the country, to make it even more attractive and stronger. For my part and for the Democratic Party there will always be the greatest commitment, this we must do for a new phase of rebirth and revival for our country. Only in this way can we look with hope and confidence to the future that awaits us. We owe it above all to the new generations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u83	PAVANELLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there has been a health centre for the elderly in the municipality of Nocera Umbra since 2005 in place of the one rendered unworkable by the 1997 earthquake. Between 2006 and 2007 the municipal administration assigned one of the pavilions to the reception of elderly people. In 2018, the municipality of Nocera Umbra, incurring an administrative deficit of 814,000 euros, reported that the reception service would cease because it considered that expenditure was no longer sustainable. After various consultations between interested institutions, Region, Municipality and ASL, there was a transitional solution, starting from May 2018, which provided by ASL the concession of the property in a convenient way for public use to the Municipality, which in turn, deliberated the use of the building for residential use, granted it as a residence for elderly people in which an experience of self-management was started to the satisfaction of all interested parties. In April 2019, in view of the annual deadline, the elderly asked for an extension, but without receiving an answer, in the absence of which cohousing has continued in the meantime, bringing substantial improvements to the property through works financed totally by residents for more than 30,000 euros. Self-management in cohousing over the past two years has proved very effective since the elderly guests are very happy to live there and face all their needs for life and health care, using exclusively private money, without any public funding, to the benefit of the budgets very often in distress of the local authorities. Unfortunately, recently ASL sent, in full emergency health care by coronavirus a registered letter asking for the immediate return of the property. This would involve the transfer of the elderly to various residential structures, separating them in order scattered in the neighboring Municipalities and causing a strong psycho-physical trauma and emotional stress due to the abandonment of a place now considered as their home, as well as the farewell to relationships, affections and established friendships. I would like to remind you that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities provides, in Article 19, that persons with disabilities should have the opportunity to choose, on the basis of equality with others, their place of residence and where and with whom they live and are not obliged to live in a particular housing. It should be noted that no case of coronavirus infection has occurred so far at the nursing home in question, while the movement of elderly guests into an entirely new situation could expose them to contagion. Therefore, on the basis of the foregoing considerations, I have put a question to the Minister for Health, [[the microphone automatically switches off]] the precautionary principle for the health of elderly guests, as well as for public health... [[the microphone automatically switches off]] .. to assess the possibility of a suspension of the request to leave the property free and find a definitive solution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-220.ana.u85	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 26 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.28 a.m.
