ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 8 October. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. At the request of the President of the Budget Commission, who is closing his work, the sitting of the Assembly will resume at 10 a.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 9.32 a.m. and resumed at 10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document XVI, No 3. The report has already been printed and distributed. I ask the rapporteurs, Senators Stefano and Pesco, if they intend to integrate it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u5	Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the face of a limited time, today we are bringing to the attention and evaluation of this House a serious, never ideological work, carried out by the Commissions meeting 5a and 14a, to which we have entrusted from the beginning the objective of keeping together, in the ambitious reasoning to which we are called, also the opposition forces, which I will immediately thank here for the availability and collaboration put in place, at all the stages that have accompanied the inspiration first, with the hearings, and then the construction of a document, which I consider to be full-bodied, but not theoretical. The European Council last July intended to integrate the resources of the European Union's multiannual financial framework with the EUR 750 billion of the Next Generation EU programme. These are resources that will be collected on the markets and that decline, for Italy, in approximately 209 billion euros of availability. We are faced with a very political response from the European Union, which rediscovers its vocation of solidarity and inclusion, at a unique historical moment due to the seriousness of the crisis. We are on an appointment with history, in which we can gather the country around a common horizon, to cultivate together the soil of good practices, to succeed also in overcoming the idea of a fragmented country, divided, crossed by sacks of old and new inconveniences, which certainly do not respond to rankings of priorities, because they all ask to be addressed and resolved. We have a single instrument, the Next Generation EU, whose mechanism for recovery and resilience is the most important programme: the objective is to support Member States' investments and reforms in order to promote a sustainable and sustainable recovery from the environmental, social and economic point of view; to improve the resilience of economies, to reduce economic divergences between Member States. In this respect, the European Commission has provided guidance on drawing up national recovery and resilience plans and on the projects to be submitted for funding, indicating what key principles are green and digital transition, equity, macroeconomic stability, accompanied by a coherent investment and reform package. The Government, in the good proposal sent to the Chambers, has indicated numerous and important objectives that put at the centre the growth, development and cohesion declined in many respects, and that it is intended to cover through six separate missions that will be accompanied by necessary reform initiatives. A detailed framework, therefore, which contains principles, objectives and criteria, which, in agreement with my colleague Mr Pesco, we have divided into two major areas: the innovation section - which will deal with my colleague - and the inclusion section, which I am going to present. Let it be clear: they are two macro sets that dialogue; they are, indeed, connected, irreducibly open and permeable to each other. On the question of inclusion, studies, observations and statistical evidence require that not only the direction of the road be changed, but above all its pace; and I am not just referring to the question of the Mezzogiorno, which is still open. The territorial divide we are experiencing, however, is bound to increase as a result of this crisis, if we do not seize the opportunity to follow up on targeted and timely actions. Svimez's estimates leave room for zero alibi and zero attenuating. If the epidemic of the beginning of the year has spared the South and the islands from the spread of the disease thanks to the lockdown, the economic contagion in those areas has become stronger than in the North of the Country and risks to drag itself into its recessive effects much longer. Therefore, the relevance of a plan capable of looking at the new generations is an appointment for our South not to be missed, because it is historical. The revival of the Mezzogiorno is where the Italian difficulties are most concentrated but also the potential; it is the keystone for any ambition of progress and acceleration towards the future of the whole country. For this reason - and I take advantage of the presence of the Government in the figure of Minister Amendola, but also of Deputy Minister Misiani - it is not enough nor more possible to recover the atavistic gap between North and South of the country through the mere application of the clause of 34 percent, because that measure is designed to prevent the existing gap from growing, which is quite different from finally acting to reduce it. The primary need that emerges is to proceed, decisively to the completion of the large communication networks, with particular regard to the railway one but also to the digital one. High speed throughout the country can no longer be called into question either from a material point of view or from an immaterial point of view. The establishment or completion of efficient and integrated transport infrastructure would increase the size of the potential market for companies in the South and the islands as well. In addition, the PNRR's resources could strengthen the ZES, giving the possibility to activate further investments in infrastructure that are essential to promote industrial location. Clearly - they all hope - coordination of the PNRR projects with those of cohesion policy will be necessary in order to avoid overlaps or unnecessary substitutions. A further element for the recovery of the Mezzogiorno will be measures of fiscal and contributory advantage for a sufficient period of time for the recovery of employment and development with cascade benefits for the entire national territory. In short, infrastructure is really the key issue around which to build a perspective of growth in the South and to make this possible it becomes necessary to reduce the bureaucratic burden and simplify the procedures, putting hand to a revision of the regulatory framework of the Code of Procurement. If we don't do it in the key of Next generation EU, we'll have trouble keeping our time commitments. A constant monitoring of the progress of investments and works will have to be established, as well as measures to strengthen, professionalise and specialise in the human resources of public administrations, especially local authorities, and priority should be given to the aggregation of contracting stations in order to increase their technical competence. In the choice of projects for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, priority should be given to the development of network infrastructure systems, with particular regard to the completion of those concerning TEN-T networks and multimodal nodes with the adoption of the best technologies to facilitate connections in the South of the country, as well as between the continental part and the islands, in order to ensure effective territorial continuity with the natural intermodal platforms of the coastal arches of the Mediterranean. The criterion of the strategic value of Europe must also be pursued in view of the benefits and real development that it will be able to guarantee in the areas in which it will insist. Within this mission it has emerged the need to follow up investments also on the ramifications of the great arteries, to favor the full involvement of all the productive areas and to tourist vocation of the Country, thanks also to the creation of possible logistic junctions and allowing the true development of sustainable mobility. This set of measures is therefore aimed at filling and reducing also those new gaps that are feeding in other parts of the country. With regard to urban mobility, we also saw the need to support smart city projects, intelligent zero impact mobility interventions. At this point I would also like to stress the need to include airport investments as a priority objective, considering that these infrastructures and airports are vital for the economic, commercial and tourist activities of the country, also responding to other missions of the guidelines. With regard to the equality and gender mission, we have done an excellent job and here it is necessary to make an important premise. In the report we stated the principle that gender policies are a priority and will have to characterize all the missions indicated in the guidelines and all the projects presented in the framework of the recovery fund, so much so that we wanted to establish the need for ex ante evaluations with respect to gender impact in each of the six missions identified. Work, welfare and education are the three directions identified, strongly interconnected, on which to build the change necessary to get out of this crisis. Therefore widespread network of services to the family, such as kindergartens and insertion of care works among the activities to recognize social and economic value. It is also crucial to modernise the economic system by encouraging the creation of jobs and adequate forms of income protection by investing in the training of workers, but also in the unemployed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish it, Senator. STEFANO, rapporteur. The strengthening of active labour policies and the fight against undeclared work, as well as the protection of health and safety at work, are equally crucial, also in order to preserve the principle of genuine competition between businesses. Give me two minutes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I've already gone further, Senator Stefano, so you need to tighten and close, please. STEFANO, rapporteur. It is therefore called for the NRP to be integrated with an extraordinary programme for women's employment, closely linked to measures to eliminate pay differences, increase the qualification of women's work and guarantee decent working conditions: these are interventions that are no longer intended as gender policies, but as genuine and authentic public welfare policies. It is also necessary to pay attention to the protection and social inclusion of vulnerable people who are not self-sufficient, such as the elderly and the disabled, and to caregivers who care for them. Finally, the PNR should address new measures and resources to finance the reconstruction of seismic craters in 2009 and 2016. In conclusion, last but not least, health comes: the last few months have demonstrated the centrality of the sector, not only in response to the epidemiological emergency, but also as a fundamental garrison for assistance and social support in the territories. The main challenges of the National Health Service are the inequalities in services on the territory: a useful tool to recover this disparity is to pursue the model of proximity health, relying on the potential of digital, which allows to increase the effectiveness and efficiency of services also on integrated home care. There is also a need to address the issue of obsolescence of the instrumentation provided in many health care facilities. It is also necessary to pay attention to the complex forms of youth distress, investing even more on the counter-dependence programmes all. These, Mr President, are a small part of the demands made for the sector: I know that this is not the time, nor did we want to force this issue into the report, because it was not the right opportunity; but I believe that this House is the right place to start a sincere confrontation, free from conditioning, on the opportunity of accessing the Health MES, freed as it is from the so-called stigma of heavy conditionality and the spectre of the Troika. We've been asked by almost every audition. We are in the most serious crisis since World War II. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Stefano, please close. STEFANO, rapporteur. We are in a context of great uncertainty. We are called to build a future that will make us look forward and not go back: we therefore have the opportunity of a new chapter to be written with the strength of our choices, a policy based on courage and hope. But this is the moment of choices and it is time to overcome the fences. I conclude by saying that this plan, with its importance, does not allow us to be considered an issue that is not only up to the Commission to manage, but rather as a more tiring, demanding, but absolutely necessary teamwork run by all the different declinations of political representation. Yesterday we decided and wanted to write clearly that the Chambers will have to be an active part in the identification of the projects and we asked the Government to report periodically on the progress of the procedures. For this reason it is important that Parliament - and I have really finished - is fully and in advance involved in the dialogue between the European Commission and the Government, regarding the activities of selection and definition of the projects of the PNR, therefore starting from the draft of the plan. We are calling for this, before being sent to the Commission, to be sent here to Parliament for its due approval. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I kindly ask both the rapporteurs and the senators to stick to their time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u6	Mr President, allow me to share the joy I have in my heart for having succeeded, together with President Stefano, in bringing to the House a shared relationship, not with all the groups, but with all the senators I have to say. All the senators concerned had the opportunity to say their own and to include in this opinion what you need to do through the resources of the Next generation EU for a better country [[Applause]] We know that the three pillars on which Next generation EU is based are the environment, modernisation and social inclusion. Let us start with the environment, the ecological transition, the green transition, which must refer to any project we are going to finance in the near future. This is because we must not treat the environment as a separate theme, but as a theme that must be permeated with any action that we will take from here to the future [[Applause]] If we don't put this in our head, we're not going anywhere. We have one Earth, one planet, we do not have one escort, so we must act quickly on this, as the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen reminded us. Our Government, together with eight other countries, has pushed for Next generation Eu to take place, this is our chance and we cannot miss it. Ecological transition is intended first of all to repair the damage that has been caused to the environment over the years and therefore to be able to intervene where there are the most critical: I am talking about air, soil, water. Let's start with air pollution: many Italian areas are really affected by the problem of pollution, so we must act quickly with precise solutions and effective instruments against pollution, logically starting from the three sectors where air pollution is created: mobility; industry and homes, therefore civil sector. We need sustainable mobility once and for all, so not only abandoning fossil fuel, but also looking at, going further, thinking about electric mobility, public mobility, sharing mobility, abandoning the concept of self-sustaining car to have shared means and tools to move us all more green, more environmentally friendly, and above all creating systems that become intermodal, so that any individual has the possibility to opt between a ceiling of sustainable choices. In addition to mobility, the industry sector needs to be considered. Industrial processes need to be retrained; we have companies that unfortunately still use archaic processes that are very impacting on the environment; now we have the possibility to develop projects aimed at converting our companies. I would like to talk about the production process, what to produce, but I will do it later. We must also tackle the housing sector, the civil sector. Well, we have already done a lot in this field through the ecobonus, now we have the superbonus. Through the resources of the Next generation EU we will have the opportunity to refinance these tools so that truly our public and private real estate assets can know a collection and become really energy efficient. On air and soil we must also intervene in areas of complex crisis, allowing me to use this term also from an environmental point of view. We have the sites of national interest (SIN) and the sites of regional interest (SIR); we all have to be completely retrained, we have directives to apply; we intervene, we do the reclamations, because the environment asks us and, as I said before, we only have one, so we have to act quickly and we have to do it, because we also have the problem of water on the ground. We need to think about the water, the purifications. To this end, we have a Commissioner ad acta and now, through the funds of the Next Generation EU, we must give the necessary resources for the Commissioner to restore a controlled water regime that limits the impact on the environment of polluted waters. As for the purifiers, which in Italy however there are, new ones must be made, but above all the existing ones must be converted, in the sense that they must be made to work well. It is a very simple thing, but at present it is not so; moreover, if a purifier does not work well, it pollutes more than if it were not there. We must therefore act quickly through the construction of new purifiers and the upgrading of existing ones; but above all, we need people, skills, because the purification of water needs specific and specialized skills and unfortunately we have few in Italy. So we really need to intervene on this through projects: Next generation EU is made up of projects, these are not things that start to start, but we need to create projects for public administrations to have the necessary tools to start and then assign the necessary tools to continue these policies. There are many directives on water and the protection of marine territory to be complied with: the Habitat Directive, the Water Framework Directive, the Flood Directive. These are measures that we should have had to implement for a long time: we have not done so yet and we must do so now. We must also talk about eco-compatibility and the protection of biodiversity. Unfortunately the biodiversity of seas, lakes, rivers, humid environments, swamps is in crisis. We must not only implement the directives, but also create the right instruments and projects that protect biodiversity. [[Applause]] The environment is a very important area. We now have an opportunity to intervene and we have to do so. We can't not talk about energy. In the Commission, Senators Buccarella, Errani and President Girotto have reminded us that we must start a transition through the redevelopment, renewal and strengthening of new energy policies, such as hydrogen: many countries, such as France and Germany, have invested billions on this and we cannot stand back. We also need to invest in research to find the best system for the production, transport, use and storage of hydrogen; we are absolutely focused on this. Let us not forget the industrial sector: the conversion of production processes is indispensable; above all, in order to limit the impact of what is produced, we must think from the beginning of what we produce in order to achieve it in a green way. For example, I can't help but talk about the zero-waste cycle: we have to start from the beginning in designing a product that is compatible with the environment throughout its life cycle. [[Applause]] These are things that we have been repeating for years and perhaps this is the very good time to be able to intervene. How can we not talk about the impact of cities? Let us think of urban regeneration, which, in this case too, must be environmentally friendly. Finally, we can talk about zeroing soil consumption, through three very simple systems: we must absolutely try to avoid the transformation of agricultural areas and natural areas into built areas; we must try to limit the damage created by waterproofed areas; above all, we must do everything possible to compensate for the construction of indispensable structures and buildings, with compensatory activities where we have to build on natural areas. All this can be done if culture changes in Italy and, in order to change culture, we have to invest in school, education, research, university, sectors unfortunately left behind. [[Applause]] How do we do that? Let's start with the wrappers, the schools. We need to get rid of the chicken classes and we need more schools. We need to reset the existing ones, make them anti-seismic and fire-fighting, but above all create new schools, because they serve classes with fewer pupils. Teachers must have the opportunity to teach in an easy and effective way and, in the same way, pupils must be in a position to learn easily. This requires more classrooms, more schools, but above all different learning and teaching cycles: it is therefore necessary to invest in teacher training. We cannot forget the people who have the most difficulties in the school environment and who therefore need support: we invest a lot on the training and the number of support teachers, to really think about who needs the most. We cannot talk about school unless we talk about research: we must invest in research, make sure that Italian researchers who are in Italy have the opportunity to express their skills in the best way. Above all, we need to do everything possible to bring our researchers back to Italy, through systems and research paths that are also innovative: we need to create research paths tailored to the researcher's needs, so that there really is the possibility of working and doing research in an easy way, in a properly funded way, otherwise we will remain on the stake also on this front. In connection with this subject, we certainly cannot help but think of industries and the private sector, which need a lot of research. In this case Italy has been particularly penalized over time, because companies are always very small. We try to copy what they have done abroad: small companies must be helped to join forces to create a single research sector, perhaps shared, in order to achieve better results. Mr President, in connection with what Mr Stefano said about inequality, the financial crisis and the pandemic have put us in the face of an ever-increasing problem: the increase in the social class (even if the term is incorrect) of the impoverished, those who have lost their jobs or who will lose it shortly. There are certainly social shock absorbers, but it is not enough; we must do everything we can to support these people and not derail them in that furrow called usury. Let us do everything possible to ensure that there are adequate instruments, such as debt and over-indebtedness crisis management, to ensure that these people can live happily ever after. [[Applause]] Mr. President, I'm gonna stop here. I once again express the joy I have in my heart for sharing this relationship with you. We do everything we can to change our country, because united we win and divided we lose. And we can't lose. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u7	I would like to inform the House that any acts of direction will have to be submitted before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u8	Mr President, fellow Senators, Government, the report we are about to vote on envisages the dual aim of reducing the gap between the different parts of the country and, at the same time, ensuring that these can develop and modernise with a recovery of the previous gap between North and South, which is still previous even on a post-unitarian historical basis, realising an investment for the future. We would like it to be clear that all the measures identified are suffering from the North-South gap, but that the specific indication of the Commission of the European Union does not end with the re-launching point of the Mezzogiorno, but with all the indications contained in the report on time. There are some sectors, however, such as mobility infrastructure, referred to in mission number 3, in which investment needs in some areas of the Mezzogiorno are well above the clause of 34%, which does not appear sufficient to operate the expected rebalancing, being this a minimum measure of caution aimed at establishing a criterion of planning investments in proportion to the resident population and, therefore, not sufficient and adequate to promote the reduction of territorial gaps still existing today between the different areas of our country. To this end, we reiterate the primary need to proceed decisively to the completion of the large communication networks, with particular regard to the railway and the digital one, allowing the realization of the participations of the national network in optical fiber and the development of the 5G networks with overcoming the digital divide, not to mention that, with the realization or the completion of efficient and integrated transport infrastructures, reducing the costs of the transport connected to the distance, the dimension of the potential market for the enterprises localized in the Mezzogiorno would widen. The resources of the PNRR, moreover, could strengthen the special economic zones (ZES) allowing to activate the investments necessary for the realization not only of the infrastructures previewed in the respective strategic plans, but also of others indispensable ones in order to favor the industrial localization, like those in the retroporti, or to assure the intermodalità of the nets of the marine, rail and road transport. It is important that the document says that the selection of infrastructure projects should give priority to the adoption of the best existing technologies in order to promote stable links in the South of the country, as well as between the mainland and the island, in order to ensure an effective regime of territorial continuity with territories that represent the natural intermodal platform of the coastal arches of the Mediterranean, and this formulation leaves room for intervention; but it is not enough without the identification of a specific vision with references to clear projects in which the dimension of the stable crossing of connected infrastructures is perfectly coherent in terms of real social progress, territorial cohesion and the reduction of the gap between North and South. I am referring specifically to the only strategic infrastructure for the Mezzogiorno: the bridge over the Strait of Messina, which does not mean neglecting all the other infrastructure necessary for the South, but, on the contrary, through careful and targeted planning and implementation of the already planned compensation works, means giving the start to all the infrastructures made usable precisely by the stable crossing of the Strait. Therefore, those who still disapprove of the importance of this work as a whole, insisting on the priority of road and rail infrastructure, must understand that not only one work does not exclude the other, but that the bridge is directly functional to all the works of the Mezzogiorno as a fundamental pillar in support of an effective implementation of trans-European networks - transport (TEN-T) in the logic expressed by the European Parliament. Really guarantee the high speed, for example from Turin to Palermo, without interruptions and all the degrees of the urban nodes through a new concept of station, considering the role that the railway connection can determine with strong economic and productive impact and with the activation of ZES, with the ports, the interporti and the connections from and to the Asian and African Countries that will dominate the economic scene in the near future and to which already the great world markets are looking, indicates an opening to the world with a vision far-sighted in terms of geopolitics, perhaps still difficult to understand considered the retrosia dictated from an ideological short-sightedness that distances a future in which from Sicily would open the door to Europe, enriching first Italy. As has been said, therefore, with the Rome-Pescara that we consider indispensable the work of the territory as a symbolic project, the node on the Strait is fundamental as a priority work as an infrastructure system of Mediterranean scale with global and local effect, in order to finally give a courageous response to the South in an overall vision of Country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u9	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u10	Mr President, I want to use these few minutes to first make some overall reflections, of which the Government is certainly aware, and then an evaluation on a specific subject. What Next generation EU puts before us is a commitment articulated in the definition of both a vision that expresses itself with objectives measured on the Italian reality, both of the actions that as a whole lead to achieving those objectives, and of that part of actions that are among those that can be financed by the European Union. On the vision I want to underline the concept of resilience that expresses, as well as an attitude, in this case also a condition of this program. It means that, after this investment season, the country will have to be structured in such a way that, if a great global crisis should happen again, the ability to adapt, namely resilience, will have to be enough to face it, because resources for massive investments like these will not be again in the future. The European Union is also asking us to integrate the extraordinary resources with the resources already normally allocated in the seventies, and I believe that this is a very important part of the work that needs to be vigorously developed. Who in our country has experience, structures, skills grown over the years are the Regions that have always planned, invest and report millions of euro invested for the modernization of the territories, that is the ordinary European resources, those that - as I said before - must be integrated with consistency with respect to the objectives of the Next generation EU. The Regions are also decisive in order to orient the grounding of the extraordinary resources that, even if they are part of infrastructural actions and transversal to the national territory, must also be decisive for the reduction of the scissors, to fill the distances and ultimately to make our Country more homogeneous. This leads to the understanding that the objectives will be achieved with investments that see the regions as protagonists, for knowledge and skills matured on the funds of the European Union, but also with reforms that will have to make the country more competitive. I do not hide a certain concern in seeing this confrontation and the joint work with the Regions that I consider decisive; a work and an institutional but also political confrontation, given the different leadership of the Regions, but, being centered on concrete and decisive issues, they lend themselves to being free from the instrumentality that I see abounding, also associated with a certain impalpability of proposal, in the classrooms of Parliament. Here I note incidentally that Parliament will necessarily have to devote itself to completing the institutional reforms that give our democracy contemporary. The first step was taken a few weeks ago with the confirmed referendum on the cut in the number of Members. Now there is a second decisive step to be taken. Thinking of modernising Italy with investments and economic reforms and leaving the institutions behind means forgetting the origin of the order. I'm closing the parenthesis. In January, a task force of 40 European experts will judge our projects, those that we will apply for financing, but they will also have to see the rest, that is, what must be put on the field to support and give chance of success to the transformation of the country to which those projects must contribute. From this point of view, the Democratic Party, when an innovation arrives, I believe must commit itself to being on the side of change and not on the side of the defense of the existing, with battles of rearguard. This is the soul of reformism. But if it is reformism that governs and is not willful, then it proposes with determination the possible transitions, that hold together change and solidarity. In other words, they are transitions that can build the community of the future. I conclude with a specific assessment of the tourism sector. The question to answer is how to help parts of our tourist system, how to redefine also some roles to return a more competitive system on the international market in the new context that has been created. I realize that it is necessary, above all today, to support the current reality, but now we must put in place a design that, moreover, has never had the resources available to become a reality. Usually, the lack of resources has also prevented the graduality of the transformations and has made the defense of the existing triumph. It will be weeks of decisive work, but with this awareness, with Government and Regions, we do our best. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u11	Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u12	Mr President, speaking of the recovery fund, as I have repeatedly expressed in the Commission's classrooms, I am being mocked and - like all people who are being mocked - I cannot keep quiet about this yet another institutional violence against the Senate and towards parliamentary democracy. [[Applause]] To see the word "Nord" written within these guidelines, I had to scream in the Commission, look for someone who understood how important the North is. I would like to know what fear you are of writing the word "North," what fear you have of the North and the entrepreneurs of the North. [[Applause]] I don't understand what's so evil in the word "Nord." You know, these are the same entrepreneurs you called to Villa Pamphili to tell them all about your beautiful projects. And then when you tell those entrepreneurs that those projects aren't planned, I don't know what you're gonna say. However, let us continue to analyse all this staging, because that is exactly what we are talking about: we are talking about the farce of presenting to Parliament guidelines, of something that is not there, that you have not seen, of guidelines contained in a plan that you do not even know what it is. To start with the right foot this charade, which is under everyone's eyes, you have taken 567 projects from the post-war period to today and you have called a three-day to Villa Pamphili, always with the same entrepreneurs as before, and you have talked about projects that, at best, were buried in the cellars of Piazza Colonna, which as a resilient have only the fact that they are still intact despite the age and mice of Palazzo Chigi. After pretending to collect them between dust and boxes - mice aside - it is too convenient to come here to us to tell us to write together the guidelines for the good of the country, when in reality it is now clear to everyone how things work: those projects are being watched by someone else and someone else is selecting them. It is too convenient to come and tell us to write them together, when then in April we will see the projects that we will discuss with Europe and those projects perhaps discussed them the same ones that wrote the Fornero law and other crap like that for this Parliament. [[Applause]] Do you really think we all have a nose ring in here? Do we really have to think we're like this? The recovery fund seems to be the greatest economic and productive opportunity ever existed in history from the republican birth to today. We are talking about a plan, ladies and gentlemen, of 209 billion for Italy, equal, in its integrity, to more or less 15 maneuvers of those important and done well. And you, how did you force the Senate to deal with this sum of maneuver? You did so with two auditions, done in haste and fury: one last Monday, from 1 pm to 5 pm, and one last Thursday, from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; and then run to the shelter when the same Commissions buried you with opinions, ranging from 30 to 60 pages and which are more complex and articulated than the provision you presented to the Senate, where there was written anything. It was all written down: all she lacked was commitment to solve hunger in the world, to bring peace to the world and then Miss Italy would win her contest. [[Applause]] There were thirteen hours of work - as I said - to find information on how to set up the recovery fund guidelines, because we are talking about this. If I tell them at the bar in my country, they may laugh, but the problem is that this is not a joke. At least we're serious about the future of our children once, at least one please. It is now clear that you have put yourself definitively in the hands of technicians and officials who are not only Italians. During those thirteen hours of work, Mr President, we were lucky enough to hear one and a half out of 20 ministers and the others did not even deign to delegate a Undersecretary. I see the Minister for European Affairs for the first time today. I thought I had to call the show "Who saw it," but I see that it's here today and, therefore, I'm sure it's okay and that the recovery fund interests him. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister, for your presence because you have not seen a soul here. Two ministers, such as the Minister for South Provence, who, in a full hour of hearing, told us that we will do, we will see, there will be many beautiful projects, and if we wanted, it would show us some data. Mr Provenzano, I think you should come to this House and explain to us why, out of the 70 billion cohesion funds, the Italians were able to direct only four of them. The truth is that you do not even know how to spend the money that Europe makes available to you. The proof is that, of 100 billion and more public debt that you have accumulated in the last eight months, 84 are still in the Ministry's coffers. I understand, therefore, that Minister Gualtieri continues to say that there are no liquidity problems: the money is still all there and nobody spends it. While the other states in Europe are discussing development projects - I am thinking of France, which has presented guidelines and 300 pages of projects - we are still talking about guidelines and we do not have a well-defined project. What you are doing today you are doing very badly and everything you are doing today will fall on generations to come. Mr President, I conclude with an old saying. Take good care of what you do, because it is well known that, in mouse traps, cheese is usually always free. If you haven't figured it out, then maybe I'll explain. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u13	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u14	Mr President, I shall use the minutes at my disposal to draw the House's attention to something that we particularly care about. I thank the rapporteurs for this measure, the Senators Pesco and Stefano, for having accepted this very important aspect, which is also being discussed at European and international level and which has finally entered into the debate in Italy. I am referring to the impact of climate change on our artistic and landscape heritage. A study by Legambiente together with the Ministry of the Environment, entitled "The Italian cities to the challenge of climate," 2017 reminds us that in Italy 28,483 sites of our heritage are exposed to floods, with times of return, and therefore recovery, up to two hundred years. More than 39,000 are, on the other hand, cultural assets exposed to phenomena of rare but extreme intensity, with a return up to five hundred years. There are 200,000 architectural, monumental and archaeological assets, 3,400 museums and about 2,000 archaeological sites, such as Sibari, exposed to floods. I quote Sibari because it is more recent, the flood of which it has been subject. Then we risk landslides. And then there are our cities of art: in Rome are at risk of flooding 2,204 real estate of historical value, with a time of return up to five hundred years (among these the Pantheon and Piazza Navona). We have Florence: 1,145 are the sites, with two hundred years of return time (including the basilica of Santa Croce and Santa Maria del Fiore). Then we have all our villages, including Volterra, the cliff of San Leo in Rimini, Civita di Bagnoregio. And then we have Venice and Matera, our beautiful Matera, the city on the rocks. We also have all the risks of forest fires and droughts. So let's talk about all our landscape heritage, and let's remember that, when we talk about artistic heritage, we cannot avoid talking about the landscape heritage in which all our beauty is set and without which it would not have value. Many documents have been drawn up. One - for example - is recently updated: the Policy Document on the Impact of Climate Change on UNESCO World Heritage Sites, of which I quote one of the recommendations, which is to implement global operational climate mitigation environments that lead to a 50% reduction in carbon footprint in the management of heritage sites compared to the values of the reference year 2020. We have drawn up the National Climate Change Adaptation Strategy, which reminds us that we must do an ordinary and extraordinary maintenance work in the direction of protecting and preserving our heritage. But we must also take care of training in this field, because our cultural heritage is not just something to protect. As the Climate heritage network's Action Plan, launched on the occasion of the Cop25 in Madrid reminds us, our cultural heritage is also a valuable reservoir of know-how to which we can draw to support the fight and the fight against climate change. So, it's not just something to protect, it's also an active resource that can help us in this battle. And it reminds us of a fundamental text, which was presented in 2019 in Baku, edited by Icomos, entitled "Future of our pasts: engaging cultural heritage in climate action" (we commit cultural heritage to the battle against climate change). [[Applause]] So, thank you for showing sensitivity. I also hope that, in practice, there will be powerful investment in maintenance and training; I hope that there will be integrated policies at European, national, regional and municipal level. Another important aspect, that goes in the direction of an implementation of the job offer, and therefore of a strengthening of our labour market, is the protection of the professions that operate in the field of cultural goods, with a necessary recognition also of their status as professionals, and of all those who work in the live show in artistic activities. Mr President, the pandemic emergency has lifted the carpet and put us in front of the large amount of dust accumulated. Today we must take note - as a document from the Art and Show Forum reminds us - that we still do not have a statute for performing and arts workers. [[Applause]] , a statute for atypical workers, for which we must provide for an ad hoc welfare pension system. Only by protecting these professions and providing for an ad hoc welfare system and a facilitated tax system; only by establishing measures to promote their mobility in the European and international context and by providing for the redefinition of the criteria for the distribution of the Single Fund for entertainment, will we allow this country to share also from culture, as I have rightly read in the policy lines of the National Plan for Resilience and Relaunch. Otherwise, we risk having a restart in a dystopic context of cities where the impoverishment of cultural offering will be accompanied, playfully and inevitably, by our spiritual and intellectual impoverishment [[Applause E]] We cannot afford this, first of all because economic restart must take into account a great renaissance of our humanity: it is in fact only with a great renaissance of our humanity that we can truly live a new era. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u15	Senator Buccarella is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u16	Mr President, I would first like to express my satisfaction with the content of this document, namely the report by the Commissions meeting 5a and 14a on guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. On page 25, on environmental issues, there is an express reference to the need to implement the use of the current findings of hydrogen green, aligning Italy to European countries such as France and Germany, with the aim of freeing us in the phase of energy transition from a highly climatic hydrocarbon such as gas. This passage, which I believe is also taken up in the opinion of the Environment Commission, is very important. Speaking of hydrogen - a subject that, as you know, I am particularly passionate about - as a technological revolution in progress, which will change the very economic, financial, industrial and mobility aspects of our societies in a handful of years, it is essential to keep the focus on something that needs to be taken into account. We are talking about hydrogen green, that is, hydrogen produced by the use of renewable sources to have energy and to separate the molecule of hydrogen from water, with instruments called electrolytes. On this point, I would like to point out that the European Union's new hydrogen strategy provides for the production of 6,000 megawatts from electrolysers by 2024. This means that 1,000 megawatts by 2024 will have to be realized in Italy only for the electrolysers, while double in terms of renewables for the energy needed: we must therefore increase the energy from renewable sources, but we must also invest and strongly stimulate the electrolysers, which allow the closure of the virtuous circle of the production of energy and its use in all areas. We know that hydrogen impacts more than the six missions indicated in the recovery fund guidelines: it impacts not only on green revolution and ecological transition, for the obvious reason of the contrast to climate change achieved through a cycle that does not include any type of climate emission, but also, from the intelligent perspective of a forward-looking policy, on the innovation of the productive system and mobility infrastructure (each of these is one of the six missions), as well as on research and development. We must give energy and strength, encourage our universities and our polytechnics so that we can also find technical solutions - perhaps Italian patents, why not - so that our national companies are at the forefront of the production of these technologies. It is essential to stress the importance of green hydrogen because it is opposed in the debate that is taking place today among those involved in the so-called blue hydrogen, that is, the one obtained through methane, with an industrial process that - ahinoi - involves the production of carbon, carbon dioxide. One element of concern on my part is that last month the Government promised to invest a considerable amount - we were talking about 1.6 billion - in a mega CO2 storage project at 2,500 meters underground similar to those in progress in the North Sea. Let's talk about the areas near Ravenna. The opposition to this project, which whoever has understood the importance of hydrogen green wishes not to go into port, is motivated by the fact that it clearly contrasts with the virtuous European indications and the scientific community on the need for processes that do not produce carbon dioxide; by the fact that it subtracts resources from virtuous processes for the creation of green hydrogen and, finally, from the fact that it involves risks. Think only of events of a seismic nature or other, which could endanger the populations and territories in which those great deposits are located, which in the past have already been financed in a similar way by the European Union, but none of them has been realized. It is therefore a losing technology, not virtuous and even dangerous. And, therefore, my input is to follow up what is written today in the document before the Senate, about the need to encourage only green hydrogen and instead to discourage any other form of hydrogen production that is not environmentally sustainable and economically to be encouraged. Finally, I should like to conclude by saying that perhaps we should remember - as I have had the opportunity to do before the Commissions meeting, and I would like to thank President Pesco in this regard, for having also referred to my speech, in addition to those of Senator Errani and other colleagues who have spoken on this point - that hydrogen is part of the six strategic and programmatic chains of the so-called Important project of common European interest (IPCEI). The money we can spend best is the money for hydrogen technology. Colleagues, today you read that if we talk about the field of mobility, hydrogen is not comparable, economically, with other products, such as oil, diesel or petrol. If this is true today - as all experts say - it will not be true in five or six years' time. Being in time, with technologies, preparation, a distribution network, research and the creation of expertise in every area, is an element that will make Italy a modern country and in line with the objectives of the survival of the planet. That is my wish and our wish. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u17	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u18	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the two rapporteurs, because they have done a great deal of work. I am referring to one of the key points in the report presented to this House, which I consider to be strategic, as defined, namely gender equality, which really must be the fundamental and strategic axis that goes through all the missions. I want to make it clear immediately that this is not an interest of women, but of the whole country, and I also want to remember that women are not a category, but they are half of the population. [[Applause.]] And, therefore, having a strategic plan on women's employment is the interest of the community as a whole. This means increasing the country's GDP; it means talking about economy, growth and sustainable growth. This means, consequently, making a strategic investment in social infrastructure, to free women from care jobs, making them professional. So investing in social infrastructure is the other big flywheel for the country's growth. Then there are all the details in the report: I think it is appropriate to tell the government that we must take this seriously, also because there has been a long-standing activity in the Senate on this issue, so much so that we have voted unanimously in this House a motion on the priority of women's employment. So there is a job of the majority and also of the minorities of the Senate on this subject. However, we ask the government for consistency. In order to do this, two fundamental instruments must be put in place, the first of which is by both the Government and Parliament, i.e. an instrument for ex ante evaluation, as well as ex post evaluation, of the gender impact on all measures. From this point of view, resources must be used in very strong and balanced terms, because another element must be taken into account: when dealing - for example - with digitalisation or ecological transition, we are talking about areas in which today there is a prevalence of male employment. The ability to look at how existing differentials are overcome and, therefore, how to invest resources is also needed. This is fundamental. It really is a strategic criterion that needs skills to be realized Therefore, the two fundamental criteria are: transversality with all measures and instruments to implement them, because this allows us to measure ourselves on everything. In conclusion, we are really talking about a historic opportunity that certainly has to face the nodes that this country has never faced: the employment gap and gender gaps in general, are one of the fundamental nodes that have always blocked the growth of this country. This is accompanied by a fundamental element: investment, as well as welfare, quality work and education. In this sense, allow me to say that at last some serious entrepreneurs say that investing on an extraordinary plan to have kindergartens is not a social theme: it is the starting point of the path of education, education and training to the citizenship of a people. Colleagues, it means precisely overcoming what is today one of the elements of extreme inequality in our country. So this is also accompanied by a plan that seriously addresses the structural nodes. The Commission - and I say this to the Government and Parliament - invites us to have an independent authority. Well, whatever the choice is made about the composition of independent authority - which is the one that must make plans transparent and provide precise steps in the financing paths - there must be an equal composition between women's and men's competences. This is the other element of consistency that must be had if Italy really chooses to look ahead, to look to the future, actually making a strategic investment to overcome all the gender gaps that the Italian society suffers from. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u20	Mr President, members of the Government, my fellow senators, I do not hide from you that, reading the Plan under consideration, we cannot be in complete disagreement, because it certainly marks a discontinuity where the six macro areas well identified indicate which clusters our country will have to resume. If I can get to the point of not wasting too much time, I would say that, however, there is one missing, which I consider to be an indicator of a country that wants to be defined as modern. I'm talking about the building infrastructure of the territory. You have spoken of digital, mobility infrastructure, decarbonisation, education, social and territorial inclusion, health: everything is perfect, very good; moreover, they are absolutely in line with European projects of common interest, such as intelligent health, IoT, hydrogen, cyber security. S echoing me, however, lacks a reflection on what is a typical specificity of Italy; it is probably a problem not of other European countries, but of our own territory. As I have said several times in this House - the data are not exactly up to date because I do not have the last ones - Italy has a private saving of 10 trillion euros, of which 6 are private property. On this we must make a reflection, which must be part of one of the strategic axes of relaunching the country, which is what I have tried to define as the building infrastructure of the territory that must give satisfactory answers. To what? To the needs of certain categories of users. I am referring to social housing, student hotels, residences for self-sufficient elderly people and not; in short, to those sections of the population that will be increasingly large and increasingly in need of attention. We have been saying this for a long time and we know it because we all read the newspapers: we are faced with a period of growing poverty, it is useless Hiding it. New generations probably won't buy their homes. To the new generations we have to give answers in terms of housing solutions that have that 30-40 percent less rent than the free market fees; and this requires a strategic design of industrial policy typical of our country, which could also give a response to those urban areas now degraded, where - you know perfectly - there are former factories that absolutely need to be recovered and redeveloped. Then there are clearly all the arguments, which I do not want to go into further, in terms of jobs and the impact on GDP, which strong action of this kind could have, and on which I invite you to reflect. This building infrastructure would have implications for all the axes that you have identified; I am referring to decarbonisation, the part of education, all the axes and digital itself. For example, think of what the Internet of things (IoT) can do in the real estate identification chain. Finally, I would like to refer to the section which deals mainly with urban centres. As I have said several times in this House, there is the theme of the villages in our country. There are at least a thousand of them and little attention has been paid to them by all previous governments. In the last twenty years there has been a wave of migration to the big cities, we have totally abandoned the villages, which now, thanks to technologies and all digital services, can be reborn because technologies make all the gaps fail. Imagine then what can be on the recovery plan of abandoned buildings in the villages, which could also bring back local economies, not only for receptive but also residential purposes. I am referring to residential purposes because there are trends, which are evident, of many people who are abandoning cities, precisely thanks to technologies, to go to live in the countryside and green areas, where the quality of life is definitely better. I believe that integrating the part of real estate recovery in respect of the traditions of the villages, with more innovative architectural trends that could foresee common spaces of co-working and sharing of leisure, could represent a historical opportunity to overturn the paradigm seen for too long, especially in the areas of the Apennines where the villages are scattered in large part, and in the Alpine area, where there are others, bringing to life the so-called Apennine dorsal and the so-called marginalized inner areas too long in our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u22	Mr President, on the recovery fund, as a League, we had a collaborative spirit precisely because in many parts and also within our movement there were indications and above all the opinion that we are talking about the future of our country and our children, to get our country out of a situation without precedent, which needs a collaborative spirit and national unity as quickly as possible. Once again, however - as my colleague Simone Bossi said before - we have witnessed by the majority the usual theatre, as if it were one of the most urgent issues to be dealt with, as quickly as possible, without almost even a debate and without even putting on the table the real planning that the country wants to bring to the attention of Europe. And this has been done by other countries; let us think of France, which has opened a huge debate, reasoning and deciding together to bring certain projects to the attention of Europe. Here instead we have the usual guidelines and the usual book of dreams. Speaking to some of my colleagues, even by majority, I have been told that it is okay, that it is all said and said nothing and, therefore, that we should also vote in favour or at the very least abstain, because we cannot say no to the document in our examination because that is what everyone is saying. There can be no such idea, so we continue to carry on the things that we think really serve our country. For example, with regard to the agricultural world, we have presented a series of projects for the valorization and protection of the chains and of the Made in Italy, of which we always fill our mouths, us and our Minister Bellanova. Here, let's do it: let's show something concrete, as well as the need to enhance or review all the irrigation structures of our country. We are approaching the rainy seasons, because climate change is going in this direction: the saving of water and the protection of the landscape of our country are fundamental [[Applause]] , but you can't see anything. If we are to talk about the environment, we must remember that Europe is increasingly inviting us to practice agriculture that protects it. Therefore, we must also talk about the relationship between human beings, the agricultural world and wildlife. This too is environmental protection, because too much harmful wildlife is bad for nature, but also for the environment and agriculture. Not even that, though, is ever talked about. Let's talk about agriculture 4.0: in this case too, we make avalanches of conferences on the topic and we tear our hair, but then have you ever gone to talk to farmers? There are areas of our country where you don't get the phone, but agriculture 4.0! [[Applause.]] You have to bring the towers, but that's not even what we're talking about. When we talk about new technologies and agriculture 4.0 I like to refer also to training, because it is necessary: in this regard, I think that as for the recovery plan we must also talk about the world of school. If we want more and more smart farmers and 4.0, we must also have a school and school facilities that, as far as the agricultural sector is concerned, go in this direction, with state-of-the-art study plans. Another subject that we consider very important, because it occupies almost 14% of GDP, is tourism, on which I have heard everything and the opposite of everything. Since you did not put a euro in the past decrees or at least put one percent of what the sector was asking for, Minister Franceschini always remembered that in the meantime the money would come from Europe. Dear tourism, don't worry, so: now Europe's money comes and we give it to you. You know and we know very well that the money coming from Europe cannot be used for what the industry is asking: you are telling lies [[Applause]] , because you are a little liars and fakes like Monopoly money, as they say very often. Even in this situation, therefore, I expect you to keep your promises: then make it with money lost, as far as travel agencies and tour operators are concerned; I am thinking of the need to renew infrastructure, also in this case, but also of all the talk of training in the tourism sector. The problem is that I don't believe you: how can I think that the money is being used by the Government of the bonus scooter and the benches with the wheels, which is bringing in avalanches of immigrants with the barchini? This is the government that should manage our funds. Mr President, I should like to end by expressing my personal solidarity with a former colleague, who is currently being the school director in Milan, former Minister Bussetti. [[Applause]] , unjustly attacked by Minister Azzolina who, in order to hide his inability, since he really is not able to make one or with a glass, is attacking and commissioning one of the best executives of the Italian school. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u23	Senators, please always remain within the limits of education towards every institutional exponent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u24	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u25	Mr President, senators and senators, representatives of the government, the Covid-19 pandemic has highlighted the close link between human health and the ecosystem, so the imbalance we have created with this economic model between the economic, ecological and social systems. The urgency has therefore emerged to intervene to protect the biocapacity of our common home and to restore the planetary borders now exceeded. When I talk to you about planetary boundaries, I intend to refer to the new sustainability indicators recognised worldwide by the Stockholm Resilience Centre and Italy has exceeded four of these boundaries: climate change, soil consumption, biodiversity and the imbalance between nitrogen and phosphorus cycles. Today I am only going to focus on a part of the guidelines that we are discussing, the one that concerns the ecological transition. We have already heard about the various reforms and investments in energy, transport, decarbonisation, industry, the circular economy, ecodesign and prudent waste management, management and protection of the water cycle, biodiversity. We have focused on reducing greenhouse gas emissions through the increasing use of renewable energy, hydrogen green, energy efficiency of buildings and sustainable mobility. We are talking about 78 billion measures that can contribute quickly to the transition between a brown and linear economic model to a green and circular model and each individual investment must lead us to climate neutrality and to the achievement of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. So you understand how it is necessary that economic resources are not used in ordinary projects, perhaps creating a doubling of existing resources. We need to focus on projects that accelerate change and that act immediately positively on the quality of life of citizens, on our businesses, on production lines, transport and energy storage. One important aspect that has not been highlighted so far concerns the way in which these projects are chosen. There must be new methods of evaluation and - I repeat - we will have no improvement if we do not use other environmental and social indicators, alongside economic indicators such as gross domestic product, which are good for the market. A systemic approach and comprehensive accounting should therefore be used. This means counting, yes, money, as we have always done well in recent years, but now matter and energy are important, because we do not have plenty of them. For this reason, the 13th Commission has included in the text a part on the need for a European Union-wide dialogue, in order to ensure that the evaluation of projects does not have as the sole criterion the gross domestic product, but also the measurement of the effects on employment, on the social and environmental impact and can therefore be included indicators such as fair and sustainable well-being, because it is able to measure the true well-being of citizens. [[Applause]] and calculation tools such as input-output analysis, physical units, material footprint, which few people know but is the indicator that truly enables decoupling between sustainable development and growth and the use of natural capital. So no more waste of natural resources, natural capital, no more waste of energy, no more inequality. This must be done with the plan under discussion. It is not about making money capital, but about protecting the network of life we have on our planet, the fight against climate change, the resolution of the economic damage created by Covid-19. The development of a fair and inclusive economic and ecological model are sides of the same coin. The challenge of inequality and poverty travels on the same track as the fight against environmental degradation: everything is connected. We have global problems, which is why we have talked about green new deal, which is a green pact, which must be tightened worldwide. I participated in Cop 25 and Cop 24 and in the relevant treaties and I was always a little sorry. Indeed, if we do not have a clear and serious pact at world level and if the treaties do not go ahead, Italy can do its utmost but it will not be enough. The green new deal unites all nations, stakeholders, experts, businesses, public administrations, citizens. I would like to conclude my speech by thanking personally and on behalf of the five stars of Movimento - which today, in the words of President Pesco, have shone - the Government, President Stefano and all those present in the Assembly, who have contributed to the drafting of a truly innovative and meaningful text for the future of our country and for the future of our habitat, our environment. In every subject there is a piece of us, as wrote last night a colleague in a chat; it is true, it is so, because we have to put a piece of ourselves, but the best piece, not the one that always brings water to its own mill and that tries to unbundle. We are no longer at the moment when we need to unbundle. Perhaps it has not been understood that we have come to have very serious problems, that there are people who suffer and who die. We will have a second wave of Covid-19 and I do not understand how we can still, in a Senate Chamber, give speeches sometimes by dockers. Excuse me for saying this, but that's how it comes to mind. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u26	I don't know, and it's still your opinion, Senator. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u27	THE ABBATE (M5S). It was in a good way. Let's say a little sadder. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u28	Go ahead with respect for the expressions of all colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u29	[[Comments.]] THE ABBATE (M5S). So, yes, I apologize for this term. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u30	I think I have already taken up the senator, so I do not need any more help from this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u31	THE ABBATE (M5S). Mr President, you are right to take me back; I apologise for this term. It is only through cooperation and mutual respect that we can create a future for our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u32	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u33	Mr President, first of all, I am obliged to express the utmost solidarity with the dockers. [[Applause]] I believe that if the world of work is seen as something far away for the left, the world of work is the point of reference for us. I believe that this word of solidarity can only come from the Senate of the Republic. Of course, I do not want to argue, so before I begin my speech, I would like to share the words of some who spoke before me. I appreciated Senator Montevecchi, when he spoke about the problems of the show; I appreciated Senator Buccarella, when he referred to his battles on the topic of hydrogen. I believe that these are aspects on which it is right to demonstrate transversality and sharing in the interest of the country. Today we are going to analyze the guidelines for the definition of the national recovery and resilience plan (a beautiful, very full-bodied one); a plan that is based on the funds of the recovery fund. I think it is right then to move first of all from the numbers, remembering that we are talking about EUR 209 billion in European funds. I also remember, however, that, as the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document says, on which we will be staying in the next few hours and days, both in the Commission and in the Assembly, 2021, that is, next year, only provides for the use of 10 billion of these funds. So let us start to define one thing: certainly not much help comes from Europe, but there is a great delay in European funds. I repeat that the Update Note to the Economy and Finance Document provides, in the accounts for 2021, therefore in the next budget, only 10 billion. I feel like using Professor Morandi's words from the University of Bari, when he says it's like when the house burns and they give you the fire extinguisher, telling you that the firemen are coming tomorrow. I therefore believe that there is a need to reflect on these delays, on the fact that the funds that should be emerging are actually coming, even according to NADEF, very late compared to what would be needed. Before entering into the analysis of these reasons, I would also like to address the 5 Star Movement and ask why, at a time when these plans to relaunch the country would need more funds and when even European funds are not immediately available, no use is made of the use of the fiscal currency. We've been supporting him for months. I am stimulating the Movimento 5 Stars on this, but probably the golden cage of power in which it is now does not allow it to give way there to one of its political battles. At a time when we have - and I do this to remind you of the numbers - over 50 billion unpaid public debt and an urgent need to put liquidity into the system, why don't we use it for these loans, as for the whole ecobonus and tax credits system, a tax platform and the tax currency system? I will continue to say this: we are ready to talk about this. The opposition - and, in particular, the Brothers of Italy - is ready to dialogue on these aspects. We would like from the Movimento 5 Stars a minimum of consistency and a snap of pride on a topic that they have proposed and of which in fact unfortunately they have forgotten. With regard to the merits of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, unfortunately from what we read, it is nothing more than a manual of banality or, if I want to be benevolent, a manual of good intentions. Unfortunately, I see a risk continuity with the Covid decrees, with the 100 billion debt of the previous five decrees, with the assistantism and with measures that perhaps serve more to the protection of the majority of the government than to the effective resumption of this country, as I think I argued last week about the August decree. Just today I put a question to ask specifically whether the Government really intends to ensure that the resources of the rebirth plan of this country must go, among other things, towards a cashless community and, that is, essentially, towards a system of abolition of cash, and whether these denari have to serve to strengthen the surveillance systems on citizens, that is, creating the Big Health Brother and the Big Tax Brother. Do we really have to make ourselves similar to the Chinese regime in the control of citizens with apps, controls and electronic invoices? Is that what it takes to revive the country? I am formally asking the Minister with a question. The health record of the national community is expected, the strengthening of the contrast to the fake news and the increase of financial resources for one billion for the ecclesiastical institutions. I really hope that the practical translation of this plan does not only concern these aspects, which are unfortunately highlighted among the few points worthy of note in this report. I wonder where fiscal policy and, in the Government's intentions, the will to put an end to an unacceptable tax system and which, as the National Accounting Research Foundation testifies, is not 42%, but really 48%. The tax system, compared to the governments of the center-right in 2011, saw an increase in the tax burden of 1.1 percentage points at the overall level and of almost two points on families, which, instead, we should help and which have been more penalized in the last nine years by the tax system. Let me start with the conclusion, Mr President, so let me remind you of a few points on which I would like to have some answers regarding the use of European funds. As far as the defence of national interest is concerned, at the moment we are selling out telecommunications assets to the French, the Italian stock exchange will in fact go to the French also thanks to the Italian capitals and we are not talking about the foreign policy and politics of the Mediterranean, since Turkey is dominating and Italy is making the turnover. National interest should be one of the elements at the heart of the projects based on the funds that we will have to invest for the recovery of the country. I am talking about the reform of the country's governance, about how we should place limits on the intermediate territorial authorities on the great works, because it is not possible that the development of a country is blocked for years by any municipality, mountain community, province or region. And one who comes from an autonomous Province and believes in autonomy, but who knows that national interest goes beyond that. Allow me one more minute, President, to conclude. With regard to school reform and project control, there is no mention of project management in the plan. Projects must be monitored point by point. In conclusion, I thought of quoting an article that I read about "ItalyToday" which says that the recipe that this majority thinks they can implement to get the country back is yet another violation of fair compensation. We read that the Ministry of Economic Development has called for a ban in recent days to seek experts in the field of communication. Great professionalism is required and over a year of work of course at zero cost. Then, perhaps, in order for the country to re-launch itself, it is only necessary to hire consultants in the staff of Casalino or Di Maio, rather than to let free work, in the interest of the country, consultants of proven professionalism. This is yet another violation, I repeat, of fair compensation. It is a shame that self-employed workers are not also considered in this recovery plan of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u35	Mr President, this is a package of masks prepared by the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, masks of the FCA Italia Group, FCA car. I opened them and these are the masks. I'm the Fiat Duna of masks. I'd call them that. Good for dusting. I don't know if they're pieces of garter, but if you don't use it as a mask, in case you can also use it... (Senator Paragon exhibits the mask allusively.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Paragon, please maintain a proper attitude, if only out of respect for the House in which you are sitting. He showed us the mask. There's no need to do any other kind of surgery. PARAGO (Mixed). It is also a use that can be made... PRESIDENT. Senator Paragon, please move forward with an attitude that is up to this House. PARAGO (Mixed). Thank you. Let the President Taverna call for order, discipline and restraint... president. I would also ask you to maintain respect for those who are in the chair at this time, given that the role is totally impersonal, so your call is further out of place. PARAGO (Mixed). Thank you. Can I move on? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Respect for the House, Senator. PARAGO (Mixed). Absolutely, and also in respect of the Italians who paid for these masks that at this point I wonder who they serve. They serve the multinational FCA car that also makes the masks and that so you take some more public money? Some kind of old-fashioned return to Fiat's house? Or do they serve the government that thus has a good media coverage from the publishers of the Elkann family who, by chance, are the publishers of those newspapers that push a lot on the use of the so-called masks? I have a little doubt, then, that these masks are precisely the Fiat Duna of the masks, which serve to cover those who "mascary" themselves, cover the "mascaries," that is, those who abuse the decree-laws, the delegated laws, the vows of trust. You are so rigged with this mascara that you can't even see the "barbacucco" that they're cutting you off and that, unfortunately, you're fashioned to the Italians according to European models that propose you and that are inside an econometric, I would say, that it's wrong and above all it's dysfunctional because, by chance, there are injustices that are now at the limit of shame. Inside these absolutely dysfunctional econometrics, we find liquidity at record levels on the financial markets, on the stock exchanges, which, however, do not dump on the ground, on the real economy. The money from the recovery fund is frozen until the summer - they tell us - the European Commission is hunting 900 billion. From there, where the central banks have, they print, they issue money; instead, we go hunting. Beautiful. Speaking of econometric dysfunction, there is the virus effect on billionaires: never so much to so few in over a century of history. Coronavirus period has fueled shameful injustices. It may be said that they are great entrepreneurs, who have invested in technology, in some brilliant ideas, but instead it is mainly a wealth that derives from real estate income, it is a income from capital, it is not a income from profit, so it is just another world, the usual ancient world that applies to others but does not apply instead to normal people. When, for example, will you decide to pay as a public administration for entrepreneurs? These should be paid today and they are waiting for the money, because yesterday they worked for the public administration, but they are still here complaining because they are waiting for the money of the public administration. Yet, despite not paying them, they obviously have to continue to provide the service. A newspaper headlines: "Marcone Uno," suppliers point the finger at Mise for a bankruptcy commission." Even the journalist closed the piece, reporting the controversy of the suppliers of Mercone Uno, which apparently remained dry, with these words that I quote: And the last (or the penultimate) word is likely to be left to the judiciary called to clarify the guilt of several protagonists of this sad - but not isolated - telenovela of a great Italian group on the edge of the crac that comes out of the bankruptcy procedure tanned even worse than it had entered because of the public care. Because of the public treatment? No, because of Mise's inability to handle this. Again, speaking of asymmetries, violent injustices, there is the Betafence of Tortoreto, a company that obviously earns with the investments of the usual funds. Over five years, the sacrifice of workers, made of night shifts and work on Saturdays and Sundays, has produced more than 20 million euros for the company. In short, things are going well, they are not in difficulty, but they hunt the workers and so I take this leaflet too and bring it to the attention of the House. It took a judge in Milan to say that Uber's riders are exploited and robbed. It is good for Minister D'Incà to leave the Chamber, because these things hurt, but they are the things that happen in the country. Uber's manager laughed and said, "Well, it's a desperate job." True, there was a need for a court in Milan to say that in Italy there is a deep exploitation of these poor wretches, which are obviously used by modernity, by apps. By the way, you hunt for cash, wage a war on cash, and all these gentlemen who escape under the law are not paid in cash, but always with absolutely drawn money. Speaking of this deception, of this barbaric trick, inside the barbaric trick obviously there is the recovery fund that is another MES, that changes face, side, but the medal is always the same, and you are drinking it all. The recovery fund focuses almost all economic policy decisions in Brussels and we are taken away from the minimum budgetary autonomy that we had left. It is a defeat of democracy - it would come from Parliament, but the Government is already humiliating Parliament - but above all it is a victory of that North axis which continues to think that it can keep the Italian economy under control. This is the recovery you're providing, as long as this money comes in. The recovery fund loans, if not offset by the reduction of other expenditure or revenue increases - so we are always there - will help to increase the deficit and the accumulation of debt. It is written in black and white in the guidelines of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan which is sent to Parliament. Therefore, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan will have to be accompanied by budgetary planning aimed at rebalancing finance in the medium term after the strong expansion of the deficit. They're going to weigh on debt and deficit, so that's all the trap. It is, however, a trap that you are pulling at the Italians. You can also make a living so that you don't bump into each other, but because there are people who are bumping into this country, I inform you that we will not allow you to make a living. Long live Italy, free and sovereign. Long live the Italians, an extraordinary people that you are betraying. Italexit! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u36	Senator Pittoni is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u37	Mr President, the use of the resources of the recovery fund for education must have the ambition to make a decisive contribution to the training of our children, ensuring homogeneous, efficient and quality services throughout the national territory. To this end, resources should be devoted, first, to ensuring an adequate teaching staff, in order to ensure a positive assessment as set out in the guidelines, where the creation of public goods, including education and training, and projects with rapid positive effects on many beneficiaries, given that to benefit from initiatives on school staff would be, not only teachers, but also students and families, in terms of teaching and quality of school service. These days the time limits to limit the damage, evident practically throughout the national territory, of the lack of permanent recruitment in the school. Then we can only intervene for the next school year. According to the single text (Legislative Decree No 297 of 1994), Article 461 provided that, by decree immediately enforceable, the maxi mous plan for the stabilization of teachers, for qualifications and services, proposed by us in March, could be activated in order to dispose in good time of the necessary staff for the regular start of the new school year. The decision, all political, was in the hands of the duo Conte-Azzolina and the majority composed of Movimento 5 Stars, Democratic Party, Italy Viva and Leu, unfortunately deaf to the concrete problems of education. Since the beginning of his mandate, the Minister of Education has been working to impose competitions, for which there are no technical times and which favour knowledge (to simplify, memory) about competence (experience), contrary to the commitment of a "transitional phase" to overcome the precarious "chronic" of teachers, confirming a real war undertaken by Azzolina against historical precariousness. A comparison without adequate corrective measures between fresh young people and "ex-young" experts does not respect the equal rights of citizens. This attitude, anticipated by the reversal of the scores attributed with new provincial rankings, which penalizes those who already teach, is at the origin of the lacked assumptions. And that's not enough! After the scandal of the start of the school year with only half of the teachers in their place, we expected a minimum of attention to our amendments to the August Decree. Their approval would have led, on the one hand, to the conversion of 50,000 professors of support from de facto staff into legal staff, avoiding to continue to lean on the roundabout of alternates, which generates great suffering to children who see themselves changing the teacher four times a year; on the other hand, the possibility of specializing for tens of thousands of operators already in the front line. However, they have been rejected, despite the commitment repeatedly announced by Minister Azzolina on support. The fact is that in the school, for some years, we have been witnessing the progressive precariousness of teachers at the expense of the quality of teaching. In the last period, this operation bears a precise signature, that of the Movimento 5 Stars. I wonder if the future of the precarious in school can be linked to the mood of a single political force. We all agree that stabilising the precarious staff of the national health service has been a fair recognition for the great effort being made. Why should it not also apply to school workers, who are obliged, from the choices of the 5 Stars, supported - let us not forget - by the allies of the Democratic Party, of Italy Viva and LEU, to undergo selective competitive procedures even after years of professional commitment? The legislation and case law of the European Union provide, unequivocally, that the employer, whether public or private, has an obligation not to repeat fixed-term contracts indefinitely and, consequently, to stabilise the staff who for a three-year period have been the recipient of time contracts on vacant posts and, therefore, attributable to an indefinite period. Also in the rankings of our maxi stabilization plan to resume lessons with all teachers in their place (right of students, this yes related to quality) you would enter on merit. Everyone has obtained the old and very valid four-year degree or an equivalent degree or a five-year degree in a single cycle or, again, the new three-year degree followed by the master, collecting a total of 300 university credits, as well as presenting and discussing, in the case of the so-called "three plus two" thesis. It would then take three years of service in the state school and therefore the merit, which is rightly required for access to the public employment, has already been demonstrated and recognised on the ground. In fact, these teachers have been educators and trainers of our children for at least three years; they have evaluated them, often determining the future of their school life, and have examined them in the State examination and, if they may not have been up to the task, they have been sanctioned in the same way as their colleagues. Many are qualified, which means that, after the academic training course, their theoretical vocational training has also been evaluated. And those who are not enabled are often victims of a system that, in the twelve years since the closure of the SSIS, has activated only two ordinary routes aimed at the achievement of the rating. 11:51 a.m. (Follow Pittoni). Each course received about 13,000 participants. As for secondary school, if you consider that they retire no less than 12,000 teachers per year, then there are ten annual turnovers forgotten by ordinary courses. Of all this in the last school decree has not been taken into account; there is no trace of any of the interventions that have long been expected from the hundreds of thousands of precarious and caged schools. There is no specific path to the achievement of the teaching qualification dedicated to teachers with adequate professional experience. I would like to move on, because the surgery is a little longer, but I think time is up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The invitation to conclude, Senator Pittoni, has just under a minute, already additional. PITTONI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It remains then to reaffirm the full legitimacy of the instrument of the rankings, with equal dignity compared to the ordinary competition; it is also protected, since the Supreme Court has stated that through it is assigned 50 percent of the places annually available, an increaseable percentage in the case of exhaustion of the parallel competitive rankings. Special situations such as the current legitimize the establishment of an additional instrument subordinate to the existing ones, unique in being able to guarantee in good time the assignment of the teachers to the classes with the creation of a maxigraduatoria aimed at the placing in role, which uses only and exclusively the scores with which the aspirants are included in the respective lists. For the record, the competition for titles known as "double channel" was born in 1989 on a proposal from the President of the Council of Ministers and Sergio Mattarella, then Minister of Education, with Law No 417, issued as a measure considered the extraordinary necessity and urgency to adopt rules on the recruitment of the staff of the school in relation to the need to provide, with due timeliness, for the coverage of vacancies with staff of role, in order to ensure the ordinary conduct of the school year 1989-1990. I would point out that the current emergency is enormously heavier than it was then. [[Applause]] Mr President, I would ask you to attach the remaining part of the speech to the record, so that it remains in the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u38	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u39	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u40	Mr President, this majority and the government have gone to take money in Europe, changing our destiny and perhaps the destiny of the Union. Can you imagine what would have happened in our country if Europe were deflagrated as the sovereigns wanted in national sauce? Do you remember the "no euro" shirts, the stages against Europe, the demonstrations as crackling as they are delirious for the isolation of our country? On the other hand, the policy of opposite sign of this Government has saved Italy and can change the destinies of the Community. Mr President, the Covid crisis has led to a fall in the single gross domestic product in the history of our Republic. Well, the 100 billions made available through the decrees that this Parliament has quickly voted in just a few months have offset exactly this dramatic fall in GDP. This was possible through the purchase of public debt securities by the ECB, which thus saved our economy. Mr President, this is the plastic proof of what we have been saying for a long time. While the sovereignists have been defeated on the whole line, we have shown by the facts that the patriots are the Europeanists. But this, Mr President, is nothing more than the first half of our battle, a decisive time, but not yet a decisive one. Now is the time for major structural investments, which must be guided by a profoundly reformative vision and the polar star is this: thinking about future generations. If this were not the case, in fact, we would do a double unforgivable act: on the one hand, an act of profound generational injustice; on the other hand, a huge strategic error. If the billions that we have been able to procure in Europe were lost in rivulets and tips, to guarantee the status quo and the usual guaranteed, we would make an unforgivable mistake in the logic of social justice and development. The matter, Mr President, is very simple. In the next seven years we will have three major sources of funding: the ordinary state budget, the European Structural Funds, the recovery fund. Three broadly consistent sources: EUR 30 billion per year for a total of EUR 90 billion. Well, the recovery fund and other European funds related to recovery must not be a mere doubling of ordinary funds, but, guided by a conceptual leap, they must be that "turbo" capable of radically transforming our country, making it stable in a sustainable and qualitative growth to make us compete with the best world systems in guaranteeing social peace, well-being, justice and wealth. Mr President, that the green transition must be the backbone of this plan is finally emerging with the right evidence. The European Union, in its various groups, has established that 37% of international - and therefore national - funds should be earmarked for this very thing. The evidence of environmental disasters caused by climate change requires decisiveness and immediate action: we all need to understand this. Never again is it an unforgivable mistake such as last week's vote in the European Parliament, during which sovereigns from different backgrounds voted against reducing harmful emissions by 60% by 2030. However, it is not only the evidence of the disasters and the incalculable environmental, social and economic costs that must commit us; it is also the fascination that the green transition assumes through a wise use of technology and technology, of the basic research of applied research. Let's think about the new scenarios that are opening up in urban regeneration for cities, in the search for new materials, in two-dimensional materials, that can lead us to the zero waste target. Let us think of biofuels, bioplastics of non-carbon derivation; let us think of the extraordinary opportunities that are opening up with energy policies based on hydrogen; let us think of green mobility, mechanical recycling, plant policy linked to waste, the clinical recycling of plastics, capable of breaking them down into primitive molecules. We also think of the possibility of finally producing 100% recycled plastic bottles in our country, a goal just achieved in the August decree, thanks to the will of the majority, but also the support - it must be acknowledged - of all the oppositions in this House. Finally, a final thought, Mr President. The great steps forward of the different civilizations were made when the technique in the different declinations was at the service of a great vision, of a great idea of collective progress of all and of each. Just as the Marshall Plan had among its objectives that of building the European Union after decades of unspeakable devastation, so this new season must be for us the beginning of a new idea of Europe, which makes it united, strong, competitive and decisive both in the internal scenario, and in the global geopolitics. Only in a strong vision of this type could we speak for us and for our children of recovery and residence plan: recovery and resilience, not as a missed opportunity, but as a new beginning. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u42	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak by sticking to the acts, in order to understand better. We are in fact dealing with a purely economic issue, but unfortunately it has implications in every respect for the lives of all citizens, especially the weak. 11:58 a.m. (Perosino followed). In summary, official government acts say that the Europe Agreement provides for EUR 1,074 billion from the percentage of contribution to GDP that each State gives to the European Union annually and the possibility of seeking loans on the capital market for EUR 750 billion, against which there will be the famous billions derived in part from grants, in part from loans. However, the agreement also says that Europe's tax burden on states - let us call it this - could increase from 1.4% of GDP to 2%, so that we can repay capital and pay interest on Europe's debt. Against this comes the 208 billion euros that we are going to flag, that I support are all the debts (I am in the acts, because it is written in the document), which will be paid gradually from about 25 billion euros this year to 30 and then and then to 40 billions, to arrive until 2026, when it will start the reimbursement that arrives until 2058. I repeat a concept that has already been expressed in this House: I think it will save inflation. Unfortunately, we are in deflation, and this is serious because this does not allow us to think that we can repay. The decision on the system of own resources will also enable Member States to finance these programmes through European taxation, which are essentially environmental (on plastics, carbon, emissions) and also on financial transactions. So we will also have European taxes, in addition to what we already have. The plans can be presented by 30 April, in their entirety, but the Government has already presented proposals for guidelines - here it is said by 15 September - which have been examined by the Commissions in recent days and are now before the Assembly. Listen, we're really at the dream book here! The proposals for guidelines say that they want to double the average growth rate of the economy, which has been 0.8% over the last decade, to 1.6%. This is a very good intention, but it seems to me very theoretical, especially in the light of the other legal provisions that are established with regard to Italian citizens and taxpayers. It is also proposed to increase public investment to 3% of GDP: this is possible if 3% is calculated on a GDP which, like this year, decreases by 10%. It is also proposed to increase research expenditure (excellent intention!), to achieve an increase in the employment rate by 10 percentage points in order to reach the European average, i.e. to combat unemployment (I agree, but I do not see how), and to reduce regional disparities. Someone here has spoken about the problem of the South, which is real and real, but it does not explain how to deal with it. It is also proposed to promote the recovery of fertility rates and population growth: this phrase struck me and I would also agree with it, but with the legislative proposals circulating in the two branches of Parliament, such as that of a certain colleague Zan in the House of Deputies, and other similar ones concerning gender or other terrible things of this kind, I do not see how there can be a resumption of fertility rates, if anything the opposite, unless we think of remedying with open port policy, as we are doing. These are facts that a centre-right opposition in Parliament must say. The plan that we are called upon to approve involves strategic challenges and then includes the six missions. It is a "book" built well from a theoretical point of view, but from a practical point of view I think it is difficult to implement, even in the light of the latest facts, that are not described, but that I try to specify. I feel that several ministers, vice ministers, undersecretaries and party members of the majority declare that with the recovery fund we will finance the ecobonus at 110%. Except that if the interpretations of the Revenue Agency continue, the ecobonus will be blocked: it is an excellent intuition, but to be implemented either with authentic interpretation or with a unique, definitive and clear interpretation, so that it can start. Someone else states - although Europe cannot and tells us - that with the recovery fund we finance the deficit: worse than going at night, because with debts contracted with Europe we want to finance and pay other debts. So let's make the investments. Apart from the fact that the amounts - which are not equal to 200 billion euros, as according to the news being circulated in the newspapers and by the government - are in installments, with a list in this case too of dreams, you know it too. In fact, with the current rules you think that we are able to design and realize everything that is part of this list - drawn up by whom? - that it will be or that it has already been presented to Parliament? In what times and ways do you plan to carry out contracts when it takes months, if not years to entrust a design assignment? You have to change, then. It is not enough for the decree-law simplifications, now converted into law; it takes something else, that you do not have in mind because behind your thoughts there is the belief: we do not do the contracts because otherwise there is the mob! The opposite is true: we do the contracts and then see if there is the mob. There should not be, it must be fought, like all the types of criminals that can be avoided, but most Italians are honest people who try to participate in contracts, win, maybe earn and realize well. This is also the case for most public administrations. So I say constructively: let us try to implement and achieve passive residues. It is EUR 114 billion, most of it on capital account, and if local authorities do not implement it, they will be revoked. I am referring to those projects which are firm for a number of reasons, such as the opinion of a body that we do not know, the inactivity of someone. Yet passive waste is a source of progress; it will create cash problems, but it will solve them in another way because passive waste can be achieved. Let ordinary sectors work in a normal way. You know what is going on outside: a new decree has been issued by the President of the Council of Ministers; I do not discuss it here, perhaps it is right to a large extent. I understand the difficulties at the moment, but if we think we will tribulate the ordinary sectors (shops, restaurants and bars) with too many provisions or with too many controls and with the fight against evasion, which is your reason that comes back every day, even in this document, we do not make our way. Let's kill these categories. You know what's going on outside, you know that. I read the interview of a shopkeeper from the centre of Rome who says he has never seen a Minister or Deputy Minister who has come to ask how things are going, what problems there are. Get back to reality! We can let ordinary sectors work. In conclusion, we use our liquidity, that of the State due to the single treasury; contingent facts: our BTP Future for families. At the same time, we make innovation: it becomes all green, but first normal, then innovation and finally fantasy, otherwise we are not going anywhere. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u43	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u44	Mr President, we have a very delicate moment. We are faced with a strange and misunderstanding epidemic, with so many implications and as many readings, as on the other hand we can say of the government itself. Many aspects and many readings also for the same instrument that is apparently placed in the hands of Parliament today. We read in the premises of the guidelines a sort of chorus: Parliament must be involved in the choices. Yet, if it were true, perhaps it would not be necessary to repeat it so often. We are only a few days away from the approval, among other things, of the extension of the state of emergency. As you know, we are also discussing whether or not the state of emergency is provided for in the Constitutional Charter; it is not a declaration of war. It has certainly become an authorization, clearly not to violate constitutional rights but to violate institutional rights, and the great institutional right is to give a voice to Parliament and not to make it merely a sounding board of the government that does everything. Today we are talking about massive funds that go down, but in order to achieve certain objectives we need a great balance, competence and efficiency. Let us remember that these funds are a resource for the country, not for the government. In this game the role of the Regions will be fundamental. Regional administrations, as expressions of local communities, must also be an active part of the choice of the same investments that will be made on the territory. This really to revive the whole country. The regions cannot therefore be excluded from the decision-making processes, they must be the protagonists, not in the choice of strategies but also in the management of the funds. The Regions themselves have in fact made the express request to have a direct management of the funds. This is to give not only some kind of acceleration, but also a territorial response. We know that the regions have a long and well-established tradition of making efficient use of Community funds. Some of them have worked a little better and others may need to be better directed, but they certainly have a structure that can give answers and, indeed, it may be a great challenge for the regions to be able to give these answers and elaborate these projects. It is important and necessary that for the decisions to be taken, the whole of our country is involved. Of course, concentrating in Rome all the management of expenditure to date could really be madness; there would be a real risk of not being able to use and spend the resources that can be obtained from Europe. To conclude, I would simply say that simplifying, reducing overlaps, shortening the same chain of implementation by bringing it closer to citizens and territory is truly a solution. It is nothing more than autonomy, it is differentiated regionalism; it can be called in various versions, but today the regionalization of these interventions will be a real opportunity. We therefore have an opportunity to invest. These guidelines in some ways have been read in too general a way, but there is a path that starts here. We obviously hope that there will be full involvement of the opposition - which appears not to have been activated - and we are only trying to ensure that everything that constitutes an opportunity is not reduced to the mere bureaucratisation of a project. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u46	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the spirit behind and pervading the entire programme of the guidelines of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is already in its definition. The recovery presupposes a restart and look with confidence to the future; resilience is the ability to face and overcome a traumatic event or a period of difficulty, logically a period like what we have lived and are living, but it is also the ability to adapt to the disadvantageous situations. The plan runs through six clusters or missions, each consisting of a set of homogeneous and functional projects. In particular, as far as the health sector is concerned, the plan is not just an emergency plan, but will have to be a reform project, capable of looking beyond the pandemic, despite the complexity of the moment, an investment plan for health that looks ahead for the next decade. This policy change can and must also be a cultural change. Health protection is not simply a cost or a number, but something living, to be cultivated, to be defended, a fundamental investment for the respect of the individual and the community. The whole health system needs to be reorganised and strengthened, recognising the fundamental importance of the interrelationship between social, environmental and health policies. This programme provides for a substantial revision of the models of governance and organisation, a substantial reorganization of territorial medicine and the primary care network, increasingly integrating general medicine into the National Health Service, trying to reduce and smooth one of the critical points of our health care, the inequalities - in some cases significant - of the services offered, both qualitatively and quantitatively, in the different regions. The plan must offer solutions to guarantee all Italian citizens the same health rights. Professionalism and skills: this is the turning point that must guide the biggest economic operation of the post-war period. We need the utmost attention and surveillance. Improvisation and incompetence in fund management can produce deleterious effects, almost the risk of mafia or other forms of organised lawlessness being infiltrated. One point to stress, present in the plan, is the interconnection of the different missions. For example, health is to be considered transversal to others. I would like to draw the attention of this House to a number of comments which, in my opinion, confirm and reaffirm this concept: in mission 1, the digitisation of the production system, a priority is the digitisation of the health system, in order to improve the services and home care and to better plan the needs of citizens. In mission 2, dedicated to the green revolution, we expect the mapping and reclamation of toxic discharges, such as the land of fires, which we sadly know well, and the safety of health facilities. In mission 3, focused on infrastructure and mobility, infrastructure should be provided to quickly reach and access health facilities, so that they are no longer cathedrals in the desert. In mission 4 on education, training, research and culture, ample space is given to investments in medical and pharmaceutical research. With mission 5, dedicated to social equity, gender and territorial, fundamental will be to invest in effective social and health integration, to offer the right attention and adequate support to fragile and disadvantaged people, such as the lonely elderly, the poor, the homeless, children and the disabled. Another important issue to highlight will be the measures to support the birth rate and the appropriate structural measures for economic and fiscal policy in favour of the family. For all these reasons, the road is set out: strengthening and reorganization of public health, the prevention network, local and local assistance, hospital facilities and their specialties, with an adequate extension of the staff and above all the indispensable connection and interconnection of hospital-territory, an increasingly felt need, which reduces, on the one hand, the access and hospitalizations in hospital and, on the other hand, allows the permanence and follow-up of patients, especially chronic patients, in their family environment and among their affections. We all know how important this is for patients and their therapeutic response, as well as for the family that is experiencing this experience, which often upsets them. The hope and will of all must be that, even from a dramatic and tragic situation such as the one we are experiencing, with all the suffering and thousands of innocent deaths that it has brought, a new way of thinking, organizing and structuring Italian health can be born and started, capable of placing the citizen and his health at the centre and before anything else. We need a change of course and a radical turning point for our country and for us citizens. The problems are many and complex: it is necessary to have the courage, responsibility and firmness to deal with them with the awareness of the choices made. We look with confidence to the future, time will be gallant man and we will be right. Finally, I would like to make a small note in reply to those in these classrooms and squares of our country who have said that very often the measures adopted so far, including social distancing and individual protective devices in the first place, are medieval and anachronistic. In fact, they represent the only internationally recognised scientific measures taken in all countries. They are the only alternatives capable of reducing and preventing the spread of the virus, obviously pending the availability of an effective and safe vaccine. The same must be shared and implemented by all of us independently and without the need for controllers who must constantly monitor their implementation; the latter measures - as we know - completely unenforceable. The sense of responsibility and belonging of all of us is the common good to be shared; defining the guidelines and rules to facilitate the correct application of such measures is the task of those who administer the public thing. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u47	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amendola, we are before us and we are discussing a historic decision, the one taken in July last by the Heads of State who were able, perhaps for the first time in the history of the European Union, to see, within a very great difficulty, also the way forward together. I am referring therefore to the decision to integrate the resources of the multiannual financial framework and the EUR 1.074 billion, with the resources of the Next generation EU of 750 billion, represent the extraordinaryness of this choice. We are aware of this and are equally aware of the fact that this requires a great responsibility on the part of the Government, the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs (CIAE), Parliament and the relevant Commissions to follow and examine the plan. What we are asked, in fact, is a little 'unpublished in the history of the Republic. We have read many national plans that we could define of programmatic philosophy, instead what we are asked now is a kind of business plan in which they are very clear, not only the strategic lines, that today the guidelines well outline, but also the missions, the projects, the interventions, the costs that will have to be certified by independent agencies and the times of realization. The resources, in fact, are not given to Italy ex ante, but we are given to progress work (SAL), so we must show that we are up to this enormous challenge. The other extraordinary decision taken by the Heads of State for the first time is to assume common debt: the European budget will be responsible for this debt and therefore for the ability to draw from the markets the resources to be allocated to individual States. The European Parliament's decision to have new own resources, new own revenue is also joined by this: I imagine the digital tax and carbon tax, but also many others that we will discuss in this and other forums. This is also a choice to be highlighted, because it is very different from that of the European bodies themselves in the 2008 crisis, and it also caress the dream of those who, like me and like many others, feel at the same time as an Italian and European citizen and in this approach it also sees the first basis for a federal Europe. The 193 billion euros of recovery and residence facility and, however, the 205 billion that the Update Note to the document of economy and finance certifies to be destined to Italy are certainly, both in absolute value and in terms of impact on our economy, particularly important, also for how they are composed: in fact, a third of these resources are subsidies, so it will not have to be returned, and two thirds are loans at particularly low rates. In this case, we benefit from the collection on the markets of the triple A++ plus the European budget, so our public debt and our interests will benefit greatly from this part of new debt. This does not alter the need for reflection and I believe that Mr Amendola has made this particularly clear. While it is true that we can welcome this enormous amount of resources allocated by Europe (we are perhaps the first beneficiary country), we must also note, perhaps with regret, that we are a founding country of Europe and today we are in a position to be Europe's most assisted country; we were net contributors and, in the next budget and in the multiannual financial framework, we will be net beneficiaries. This gives us some measure of what we have lost in terms of competitiveness (I don't mean credibility, because fortunately this Government has recovered it within Europe) and how this really is the last great opportunity that is given to our country to resume a path of growth and widespread well-being. Minister, the other issue that I would like to give to President Conte and to you, for the important role it plays at this stage, concerns the reasons for this decision, in the wake of a new phase of solidarity and inclusion of Europe. At the next European Council on 15 and 16 October, it will certainly have to be stressed that, when the European Parliament voted on 23 July last, it called for the countries benefiting from these funds to be consistent and capable of respecting the founding values of Europe. I know that it is one of the remaining issues to be resolved in relation to the process of approving the implementing regulation of the Next Generation EU, but it is a particularly important point for us. We cannot withdraw from the rights with respect to resources; we must certainly find a mediation to continue on the most virtuous path we have taken, but this is a particularly fundamental point. Similarly, it is essential to try to make the multiannual financial framework stronger, in accordance with the expectations of the European Parliament. I have a lot to add, but time is tyrant. There is something else to be asked of the European Council. The amount of resources to be allocated to green transition (37 per cent of resources) and digital transition (20 per cent) has been defined. Another objective has been set, that of cohesion, with particular reference to the issue of the construction of a truly equal society, which invests Italy more forcefully than other countries of Europe. In this area, resources have not been allocated, but at this stage, after years of many high and fine words, but not useful for the real construction of an equal society, perhaps we should allocate resources that give the measure of what Italy and the Italian Parliament believe in this new model of society. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u49	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u50	Mr President, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is an economic instrument that is creating great expectations for the revival of our economy; in our view, too many expectations, too many hopes and too much optimism. [[Applause]] We see, instead, numerous criticalities - too many - that have been hidden. First of all, the timing: we know that part of these funds - largely on loan - can only be used from the second half of 2021. But the crisis is today: today we need the resources, we cannot wait for the adoption of these measures with too long and slow bureaucratic timetables. There are also too many conditionalitys: loans are conditional on the transposition of the guidelines, but also on the transposition of the European Commission's recommendations. We know these recommendations very well and we want to remind you: we are talking about shifting the tax burden from work to things. We are afraid that we will return to the policies of increasing VAT. We are talking about a reduction in tax concessions and the updating of cadastral values. When we hear the word "updating," we are afraid that there will be an increase in the tax burden on homes. There is also a call from the European Commission, which we remember, to fully implement past pension reforms in order to reduce the weight of pension expenditure. This also worries us because reducing the weight of pension spending knows so much about returning to the old Monti and Fornero reforms and we certainly do not believe that this is the way forward. There are, in essence, too many stakes and then there is no clarity about the timing and rates of these loans. There is a possible reduction in resources for the common agricultural policy (CAP) and there is no reduction in the tax burden. In short, they are funds allocated that will not necessarily be directed towards the real needs of our country. There are essentially two truths: that of the documents drawn up by the Government and the European Commission, which contain so many words and good intentions, and the real reality that our families, our businesses and our workers live: unemployment, the closure of economic activities, bureaucracy and unsustainable rates. You are therefore not credible and this plan is not credible. The presentation of this measure is well packed with many beautiful words and many billions (largely in the form of a loan). There are also many proclamations, but when in a provision you want to write all the risk is that you want to hide nothing and the smallness of the provision. All this seems to us a great theater; you are creating many and too many expectations. The truth is that you are misdirecting huge resources, which are not having any effect on the recovery of our economy, let alone on the employment levels of our country. The truth is that with the €100 billion allocated in four months, with the various decrees care Italy, relaunch and August and the next ones of the recovery fund, you run the risk of losing an opportunity. Your Government cannot create economic development, but only welfare and many of the measures you have taken go in this direction. He doesn't know how to create jobs, but only unemployment incomes. This is not the model of development on which a healthy economy can be founded. This is certainly not our model. It is the model of the pull to life, which burns resources, increases debt, is not holding back the closure of thousands of economic activities and is creating misery and unemployment in our country. Despite the billions you spent, you are doing nothing to curb this disaster. The ability of an efficient government is not to spend hundreds of billions in infinite debt on future generations: the ability of a government that has a heart for its citizens is to spend little and well, leaving money in the pockets of citizens, in the availability of families and businesses. [[Applause.]] That's the difference between a good government and a bad one; that's the difference between us and you. You're selling illusions and we'll never be your accomplices. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u51	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u52	Mr President, government gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 September, when the government presented us with the document on guidelines, I called it a dream book. Then, of course, the parliamentary debate was channeled and the result is this document, which from the methodological point of view is good: it is well structured, readable and with good summaries of both European and Italian instruments. On the substance of the matter, my impression is that this document is, in the end, a pointy and orderly compilation of all or almost all the reports and requests made to the Commission or arriving at each of us from our own territories. Each of these resumes and proposes the solution to the critical situations, areas or sectors of this country, to some problems that we could define chronic because they accompany us for many, many years and other more recent. Other reports point to solutions for the future. Members who spoke during today's debate also made suggestions, additions, new issues, or other issues. From this point of view, I hope that the Government will take this list, or list of proposals, although well organized, as a contribution but I am not sure that so. I have the impression, in fact, that you expect - and we expect - a bath of reality and realism that will also mean having the capacity to say a lot of 'no' because we will not and will not be able, in the time allowed for the delivery of European funds and in the time available, to solve the many problems reported. We are all perfectly aware - we do not pretend not to be - that if we were able to solve all the issues, this would mean turning Italy like a sock in two or three years. It can't be done. The list, however, may suggest new fields that you had not thought of excluding others. I do not know if we have been useful to the government, but I prepare myself, and I hope that colleagues will also want to do so, to support you when you are required to say no, because everything cannot be done. Finally, I would like to stress one aspect of this report which seems to me to be the beginning of a very important cultural change. I am referring to the enhancement of half of the Italian female population no longer seen as a fragility to be protected or assisted, but as a real engine of possible human and economic recovery, a protagonist, not superior to others but certainly not a minimal sector to be protected or if anything to be assisted. This unused and unexpressed resource, in fact, has the potential to really become the engine of a cultural revival and allow me also economic of this country. I consider that to be a good thing and I hope it will remain in the government's report or future decisions. However, please know, Minister, that we are aware that you will have to say 'no' and that we are also preparing to evaluate exactly what programmes we can support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u53	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u54	Mr President, with regard to the previous speeches, I have a more optimistic view of what we are doing and what is happening, partly because I do not feel any discomfort about the important presence of Europe. On the contrary, I believe that it has given a very clear signal to all those who work daily to deconstruct it. Not only that, but the opportunity we have today to discuss these issues also gives us the further opportunity to say that many of the things that we have heard these days are not true, particularly those that are often repeated in all the Italian media, namely that minorities are not involved, that there is no in-depth discussion, when instead the debate on the guidelines that we are conducting today in this House clears the field, because Parliament has its own autonomy, it fully manifests it in the documents that will be put to the vote today and therefore many of the things that have been said - we say it to those who listen to us outside - are not absolutely true. This document has given the possibility to the Government and the Parliament to face a historical challenge to restart Italy - it is not by chance called National Recovery and Resilience Plan - and I believe that an important part of the recovery of our country, which is why I hope that most of the resources available will be invested in this sector, both in the development of the infrastructural sector. It must be a development (as we have dealt with it in the Commission on merit, 8a) that clearly has a unified and coordinated design of all the actions to be undertaken: strategic infrastructure, cohesion, territorial continuity, intermodality, local public transport, digitisation. From these basic principles, it is necessary to decline a number of significant destinations of these resources in order to ensure that that design can be completed. I do not think we have to invent who knows which pindaric flights, but some of the fundamental guidelines have already been voted by this Parliament in the 2020 Economic and Financial Document and in particular in the fast-paced Annex "Italy." In that important annex there are the priority works, the financing instruments, the design maturity and above all - this is the input that we must give today in this debate - the reduction of bureaucratic burdens and the simplification of procedures, an issue on which the recent simplification decree comes to our aid. Investment is therefore needed to develop network infrastructure systems, in particular those of high capacity, which allow to reduce as much as possible the gap with other European partners. It is necessary to invest in the airport network which will certainly take account of the current difficulties, but which also take into account, where necessary, both the increase in national capacity and the consolidation of existing capacity. We need an in-depth reflection on local mobility: we have an extraordinary opportunity, since one of the mission of the recovery fund is to support the green transition by renewing the park of buses and trains, obviously used for local public transport, as well as the fleet of navigation, to ensure the territorial continuity between the various areas of our country. We have an important opportunity, when high speed is completed and traces will be released on the historical line and therefore regional and interregional railway lines, which are at the service of local rapid mass transport: it is an objective on which to invest a lot. It is necessary to invest in the network of the ports, in the sustainable logistics, in particular by ensuring that ports, airports and stations are connected to each other, thus realizing a highly developed intermodality. A quick reference to the digitalization of the country, a real node of all events, because all these things are held together if we manage, everywhere in our country, to complete the fiber, the development of 5G networks, especially in areas with market failure. We therefore have very ambitious, historic objectives. What is the task we have? The Government is called upon to respect these guidelines and objectives. We are called upon to monitor them, another task that we will have here in this House, in this Parliament, another opportunity to say that Parliament and all of us will be fully involved. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u55	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u56	Mr President, Minister, I agree with Senator Bonino. We are at the beginning of a debate and I believe that, at the moment, we must focus above all on methodological problems. I shall therefore make a few gleanings in four minutes, which relate in particular to Mr Stefano's report. He has proposed to us an intervention on the southern issue and in particular he has insisted, in my view, correctly on the conditions of the context. The Mezzogiorno needs more favourable conditions than direct financing. Therefore, security, infrastructure and the convenience of investment, taking into account also the particularities of the labour market. I would, however, like to suggest to Mr Stefano that we consider how the southern issue has changed somewhat in recent years. In Italy, not from now on, but even from the period before Unity, there are two historical fractures: one is the North-South one, on which we have so much entertained; the other is the one between internal areas and coasts, which has existed since the sixteenth century, probably since it began to decline the cold industry (climate change, in fact, there were also then). This fracture in recent years has become a national emergency, especially after the earthquake of 2009 and the earthquake of 2016-2017. I would like to say without inflaming that in any civilized country what happened after 2016-2017 would be considered a national scandal. Even today we find the rubble in those places. However, I did not hear any movement of wheelbarrows and I did not hear of any social uprising. What, then, has happened? That throughout the central-southern Apennines the two fractures - that between the North and the South and that between the internal zone and the coasts - have overlapped in large parts and the disadvantage conditions have somehow multiplied geometrically. At the same time, in some areas we have an exodus on the coasts that determines phenomena of urbanization that the coasts cannot absorb. This, especially on the Adriatic belt, is one of the reasons for the worsening of safety conditions and malavitous infiltrations. We must place this link between the southern question and the question of internal areas as one of the priorities, if it is true that we are talking about the recovery of the territories and their resilience and if it is true that in these areas - those of the hinterland - there is an important part of our roots and the soul of our nations. My colleague, Mrs Tiraboschi, spoke about this in part: there are the most important villages, probably not only in Italy, but throughout Europe. I ask, then: if not now, when? Let us take advantage of this particular moment and let us do so by coordinating with post-an earthquake policies, which have started over too many times and which, unfortunately, are serving the mortal sin of having destroyed, for political reasons only, one of the best civil protections in Europe. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u57	Mr President, it seems to me that a figure has now emerged quite clearly. Even Mrs Bonino has had the opportunity to say it and to make us understand it: we are in front of a beautiful soup. Even the minister may have gotten a little tired of the soup. I saw, in fact, that he came out of the Chamber. When I was a kid, my grandmother used to say to me, The more you put in the soup, the better. The more you cook it, the more you mix it, the better it gets. [[Applause.]] It is not up to me to make judgements, but it seems to me that this situation is creating a bit of difficulty and many questions also within the majority forces. I take an ingredient in this soup, the one relating to environmental initiatives to be undertaken. There is a specific point, which is rich in good intentions, but also in contradictions; so there is everything and more, everything and the opposite of everything. On the one hand, it is stipulated that actions and investments in the coming years will have to be concentrated in cities: urban regeneration, redevelopment of the suburbs, sustainable mobility, public transport, energy efficiency, circular economy, waste reduction and pollution are properly listed. But immediately after that comes the contradiction: the big intervention is done inside the big cities, but then we start talking about biodiversity. Very well, but it is done in a tone that certainly could not be distant from the logic of this animalist and environmentalist extremism that reigns within the Movimento 5 Stars and that the Democratic Party follows and supports pedessequamente. And here comes the usual proposals (we have also debated them within the 13th Commission): in order to raise and revive the country you should even make new natural parks and new natural reserves. But is there anyone here who believes that the revival of the country passes through new natural parks and new natural reserves? [[Applause]] In order to get rid of man from the environment, as is now demonstrated in this country, we abandon the environment to itself and thus we move towards degradation. We have many examples of reserves and natural parks in this country, which are the example of the worst degradation, but we want to continue along this path. So they continue to burn or propose to burn resources in the name of a false environmental mania, which in fact worsens the environment. In the document we even get to mention the so-called Birds Directive (it is difficult to understand which connection there can be with the revival), without having in this country not even the courage to apply it correctly, as the other Mediterranean countries do, because blind animalism must prevail over rationality and scientific studies. The choices of the Ministry of the Environment are proving this to us very clearly in these months and in this period. Aid to farmers is referred to. Well, but we do not realize, with what has happened and given the work of the Government, that the only aid to farmers can initially go through the change of the Government itself, because it does not come and nothing good has come towards these categories. These things must be reiterated and clearly said, in the European country which has the highest concentration of wildlife and the highest concentration of damage to agriculture and road accidents, even fatal, for which someone should start to feel responsible. [[Applause]] Who cares about farmers and farmers? Continue with this wild animalism and this blind environmentalism. Thanks to you we will soon get to the abandonment of the pastures, in our country, and summer pastures, to the total abandonment of the agro-silvo-pastoral territory, because there will be no more space for man. To be environmentalists for you means not to clean the beehives of rivers and streams, that is, to help floods; not to clean the Mediterranean woods and spots to encourage fires. [[Applause]] Is this your biodiversity? We think of it in another way; for us man is part of the environment and is not a second level being. [[Applause]] For us, man - I am sorry that there are no Ministers for Agriculture and the Environment - has a duty to manage wildlife; for you, wildlife must manage man. This is what is happening in our country; go tell the farmers and farmers. To give satisfaction to some soulful people you are condemning Italian farmers and farmers, destroying those who are managing the vast majority of the territory of our country, which is not represented by the inhabited centers. Try to think about it once, try to try to understand that the real world is this, the real world, what you see and touch with your hand, the one made by those who work with their calluses on the territory. [[Applause]] The real world isn't the five-star world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u58	Senator Presutto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u59	Mr President, distinguished colleagues, representatives of the Government, today we are called to evaluate and vote on the proposal for guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. As we know, the European Council, in order to respond to the crisis generated by the pandemic by Covid-19, has decided to allocate resources of EUR 750 billion, which fall under the Next Generation EU programme, in addition to those provided for in the multiannual financial framework of the European Union for the years 2021-2027, amounting to EUR 1.074.3 billion. The supplementary funds are collected on the markets and are intended to pay particular attention to the future of the new generations, to programmes aimed at promoting the ecological transition and the economic and social recovery of countries affected by the contagion. Of these 750 billion euros, in the last update contained in the Update Note to the Document of Economy and Finance (Nadef) presented in these days, the Government estimates that Italy will go about 205 billion, of which 127 in the form of loan and little less than 80 in the form of a grant lost. Italy, like the other Member States, will have to prepare a National Recovery and Resilience Plan following the guidelines set out by the European Commission, criteria aimed at reducing the gap between countries and taking action to promote their renewal, modernisation and development through an ecological and digital transition, so as to ensure that each individual country, together with its own production system, acquires the necessary capacities to resist new pandemic, social or other economic or natural disasters. The European Commission has established that each country must face, in parallel, both reforms and investments and Italy has proposed in its Recovery and Resilience Plan four important strategic challenges: improving resilience and resilience; reducing the social and economic impact of the pandemic crisis; supporting the green and digital transition; raising the growth potential of the economy and creating jobs. To this end, our country's plan will be articulated in six missions: digitisation, innovation, competitiveness of the productive system; green revolution and ecological transition; mobility infrastructure; education, training, research and culture; social equity, gender and territorial and, not least, health. The six missions, in turn, are divided into clusters, together with homogeneous projects. In line with the European guidelines for a comprehensive investment-related reform package, intervention clusters will be linked to structural reforms of public administration, tax, justice and labour. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on to discuss the guidelines for the definition of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will lead the Government to draw up the scheme for a rational and organic forecast of investment and reform projects, which will be used to engage in an informal dialogue with the European Commission from 15 October. We have a great opportunity to cope with the current economic crisis and to manage optimally the extraordinary amount of resources available to the European Union. It will be important to ensure the certainty of the timing of the planning and implementation of the projects related to the strategic objectives set out in the guidelines: we owe it to ourselves and to the next generations. The country will have to progress in terms of competitiveness and productivity, with strategic and material infrastructure, such as high-speed and capacity rail connections, and intangible infrastructure, such as the single broadband network to improve the quality of ultra-fast connections proper to a modern and efficient country and, at the same time, respectful of the environment. The European Commission reminds us, however, that the assessment of the Recovery and Resilience Plans presented by individual countries will mainly take into account the specification for each draft quantitative targets relating to agreed indicators covering the resources used and expected results, as well as the intermediate stages of implementation and completion of projects. The provision of European funding for each individual project will be closely linked to the regular achievement of intermediate objectives and milestones. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, however, it is necessary to bring to your attention some critical issues, which we must urgently address and resolve, in order to make sure that we respect the commitments we will make with the European Union and with our citizens. A few days ago, in this House, we examined the draft laws bearing the General Report of the State Administration for the financial year 2019 and the provisions for the adoption of the State budget for the financial year 2020 and I myself highlighted how some economic and capital parameters of the accounts testify to the historical difficulty of the State in interacting with citizens, both in the collection of revenue and in the implementation of expenditure. These problems are mainly due to public administration based on outdated, ineffective and inefficient management models. However, it will be the latter which will play a central role in the execution of the recovery plan projects. Action will therefore have to be taken to achieve the mother of all reforms, that of the public administration, which will have to adopt a modern organisational and management model, based on processes oriented to the achievement of the objectives, evaluated in the intermediate stages by key performance indicators, in compliance with the criteria of efficiency and the valorization of the concept of functional expenditure and in the perspective of continuous improvement. The modernisation of public administration will necessarily have to go towards the adoption of digital systems, which favour internal interaction between institutions, the interoperability of public databases and interaction with citizens and suppliers. The success of this reform requires trained employees to the new model of work and the new concept of public administration and the selection of suitable professional figures to support and accelerate the cultural change in progress. Only in this way will Italy be able to measure the achievement of the objectives defined in the national recovery and resilience plan and to do so in a preventive manner, bringing any corrective action and even before the European Commission's intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, another aspect that we will have to address is the involvement of local authorities in the implementation of the recovery plan. The Regions have asked to have a say in the matter, but this can only happen in a functional way through the correct application of Title V of the constitutional dictation, which sees the State over-ordered and with a coordinating role with respect to the functions assigned to the Regions. This means that the State will have to ensure the implementation of autonomy and federalism, but respecting the principles of cohesion and solidarity, in order to allow the exercise of civil rights to citizens, without geographical and territorial distinction and can do so through the definition of the essential levels of performance (LEP), both for symmetrical and asymmetrical subjects, which are transferred to the regions that request it. Only in this way and through a careful determination of the equalization fund and the infrastructural equalization, can the economic and social differences between North and South, which are no longer sustainable, as indicated in the recovery plan, be finally filled. At the end of my speech, I would like to put to your attention another vital aspect for the economic recovery of the country, that is the role of the State that, through Cassa depositi e loani, is intervening on strategic assets fundamental for the future of Italy, such as highways, single network, broadband and Italian Stock Exchange. Without going into detail, these specific public interventions, together with others already planned, often in the form of incentives, coordinated by the Government, will serve to create a fertile substrate, on which the private entrepreneurial initiative will be able to plant the seeds for the revival of the Italian economy, which will be oriented to the respect of the environment and the health of the citizens. The combination between the public and the private, with a view to strategic coordination, will facilitate the development of a resilient and competitive economic system, able to face any future adverse events or negative global economic cycles. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan, in its complexity and importance, can be applied to enjoy the expected results, in compliance with the principles and criteria set out by the European Commission, only if the State is able to identify and resolve the critical issues that compromise the functionality of the PA and the interaction with the citizens, to resolve in a clear and precise way the problems of coordination and functional control with the local authorities, to manage the national economic system, balancing the role of the State with the free initiative of private entrepreneurship. One thing is certain: it is only thanks to the Government and the constant support provided by the Movimento 5 Stars, that today we are able to discuss and outline a great project for the country. The amount of resources coming must make us feel the full weight of this responsibility, but it must also give us the enthusiasm and awareness of having achieved, thanks to the recovery fund, a decisive result, which until a few months ago, in accounting and arithmetic Europe, would have simply been impossible to imagine. Today it is reality: we must look forward, in the conviction that Italy will soon be able to return to release all its immense potentialities. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u60	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u61	Mr President, the European investment plan we are debating today has a great political value and marks a turning point because, faced with the proof of the pandemic and its devastating effects on the economic and social standing of our individual countries and the whole continent, there was a risk that, as has been the case too many times in the past, the ruling class of the European Union would prove inadequate, paralyzed by vetoes and selfishness, dominated by the dogma of financial parameters and by restrictive policies, which were the worst response to the crisis in 2008, causing enormous social damage and generating a feeling of distrust and resentment towards Europe. However, European construction and integration cannot live and go on without a great consensus, without the legitimacy that comes from a shared project, from a collective mobilization of energies and intelligences, and all of this today lives in this Plan ("recovery" - "relaunch") that strengthens Europe's fundamental reasons: investments to create jobs, youth and women's employment, to recognize protection and rights to fragile, precarious, intermittent workers, self-employed workers. Investment for tangible and intangible infrastructure, to support internal areas, the most disadvantaged regions and to reconnect them to the future, growth and innovation. This crisis gives us a great truth: inequalities, exclusion, precariousness are the main disease, even before the Covid and the other viruses that will come. "We were deluded to be able to stay healthy in a sick world": these words echo and we must always keep them as a warning because they contain the sense of what we are living. And then it is up to us to offer the country a political project, not just a vaccine; to give answers to the crisis, because that is what we will be judged on and for this we need - for our part - to listen to the needs of those who are weaker, of those who risk paying the full consequences of the pandemic by giving up what is most important: their own life plan. Before Covid, 1.3 million children lived in absolute poverty, and we know that these numbers are now likely to multiply. We know that in Italy the number of school drop-outs is much higher than the European average, while the number of university graduates is much lower than in other countries. In these numbers there is the crisis of the system of before, to which not only we cannot but must not return. On the contrary, we must overturn these criteria because in those numbers there is an urgent need to think and build a new model of development, a new Europeanism that puts at the centre the right to study, access to knowledge for the weakest social groups, because at the time of the digital revolution, the right to competence is the only way not to be discriminated against in work and citizenship. A model that makes school, university and research the main infrastructure on which to build inclusion and development, starting from children, from childhood, from kindergartens; that contrasts the precarious in school teaching and research, because the precarious is enemy of the quality of teaching, is enemy of the quality of research and undermines the potential of our country. A new model of development based on culture as a great economic and social multiplier, of gross domestic product, of ideas, of community ties, which rests on a "social status" of workers and professionals of culture and performing arts, because making culture is a job, it is not a pastime, and as such it must be respected and recognized. [[Applause]] Investment, Mr President, which will also serve the creation of new sports facilities to repair the urbanistic wounds that affect our most degraded territories, to lift them up and to combat marginalisation. In conclusion, buffer interventions are not enough; we need an overall project of structural change that addresses the criticalities exploded with the Covid, but that we already knew to be well present before, and that have been blamefully ignored. We need a model that holds together protection and emancipation, that returns to give confidence, certainty and protagonism: it is the sense of this plan. I want to thank the Government - and for all Minister Amendola here - for having the merit of having made sure that Europe in the tsunami did not lose itself and found its mission, the wishes for which it was born: to redistribute resources and opportunities, to give the future to the new generations. The title of the plan is Next generation; a title that has a great political significance, contains the sense of a collective challenge that for no reason we can lose, we must win it and we cannot fail. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u62	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u63	Mr President, I am speaking on the guidelines of the Green Transition Plan, remembering that the expenditure for this mission will have to be 37% of the total. You told the Italians that a mountain of billions will come from Europe; calm down, let's make it clear. Most of the 209 billion are loans that we should repay, which add up to the 100 debt contracted by the government in these months, are a burden that is being laid on the shoulders of the next generations. Let us also remember that to finance the recovery package not only will new European taxes, such as the plastic tax, be introduced, but money will be taken from farmers and businesses from other European programmes. [[Applause.]] Having said that, we are concerned because by reading the guidelines, we notice that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) is about to become a dream book. There are no strategic objectives, such as lowering energy bills and reducing energy dependence from abroad. Too many generic addresses, lack the priorities and lack the analysis of the many critical issues present in the country. We fear that the billions will be distributed in rain, especially in the South, with little investment capable of relaunching the economy. You'll still fund Chinese scooters that disfigure cities and put more money for electric mobility. You know no bounds in this. In the August decree you also invented contributions for the electrical retrofit of old cars; a madness. We are also concerned about the decision that Europe will shortly take, which wants to further reduce CO2 emissions by 2030, no longer the target of 40, but 55% or even 60%, as voted by the European Parliament last week. The new objective will upset the National Integrated Energy and Climate Plans (PNIEC) just approved by the European States, but above all it will impact on the industrial plans of the enterprises endangering jobs. This concerns us because a friendly state should ensure development according to the principle of technological neutrality and not stress companies, which risk reaching 2030 exhausted and resourceless because they anticipate in non-mature technologies. Moreover, as competitiveness is global, the fight against climate change must be global, and Europe must therefore not be alone, responsible for 10% of emissions. [[Applause.]] The content of the lines is short-sighted because on the circular economy and the management of the waste insist on not wanting to fill the heavy plant gap in the country. At this rate it is not certain that in ten years we will have green hydrogen pulls, but we will still have 200,000 pulls that will move every year from the South to the North, polluting to transform the waste. On green hydrogen, research and development are good, but let's not fool ourselves; will this vector be available on an industrial scale between some lustre and in the meantime? Irresponsibly ignore the role of gas, thus slowing down the energy transition. Whether you like it or not, however, decarbonisation also passes through the gas of which, alas, we import 97% of the requirements. If you plan to convert coal-fired power plants with renewables only by 2025, you are deluded. With what energy do you plan to supply our companies from those present in Sardinia? And with regard to renewables, I would stress that we are far from achieving the targets by 2030, let alone when they are raised. The auctions for incentives are a flop and confirm the failure of the decree simplifications so flagship. On the energy efficiency of the buildings and on the superbonus call for caution: since the announcement the yards are stopped, it is not enough the extension, in the juniper of codes emerge procedures too complex, high risks to benefit technicians and enterprises. Similarly, there are still several critical issues to be resolved. On sustainable mobility, put yourself in the head that in the coming decades the demand for liquid fuels in transport will not be able to clear up: it is therefore a serious mistake to support only the electric, which also pollutes, because it has a carbon footprint, and do nothing for low carbon fuels. Sustainability cannot be the prerogative of a single sector: the Italian refining industry - you want to sink it, like that of plastics - was strategic during lockdown and must be supported for conversion to sustainability. [[Applause.]] It is curious, however, how you want to support electric mobility to combat air pollution, pretending to ignore the fact that by blocking cars during lockdown thin dust has not decreased, while you do not want to encourage efficient district heating, at least in cities, since domestic heating is the main cause of air pollution. [[Applause.]] I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President, by reaffirming the fear that your plan will be unbalanced towards environmental sustainability, to the detriment of economic and social sustainability, and spoiled by ideological prejudices, such as gas, plastics, district heating, waste-to-energy, fuels and biofuels, as well as the development of hydroelectric power, the only renewable source that can be programmed. Your nos, marked by happy degrowth, prevent investment. This is to curb the resilience and resilience of the country. We also fear that, rather than Parliament's indications, the Plan will be dictated by the general states and conditioned by the mainstream of ideological and catastrophic environmentalism and by the prevailing "gretinism," capable of influencing even the stock market quotations of societies. With your environmentalism, you risk hindering ecological transition and progress, with the absurdity of wasting economic resources, to the benefit of a few and to the detriment of recovery and employment, in particular of many sectors on their knees, whose companies will not have a cent from the recovery fund and which, if they survive, risk dying in a few years, harassed by inevitable maneuvers for the return of debt. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u65	Mr President, Mr Amendola, my fellow senators, I believe that I interpret the sensitivity of all the members of my parliamentary group in saying that, in terms of personal culture, institutional sensitivity and political formation, it is natural for us - to me, but I believe it is also for them - to lay down the spirit of faction, at a time when one perceives that national interest is at stake. It is clear that we are going through a narrow and difficult historical passage for the political and social life of the country and that the choices that will be made or not in these months will literally depend on the future of the nation for the next decades. That is why, when the President of the Commission of which I am a member - the 7th, public education, cultural heritage of the Senate - my excellent colleague, Mr Nencini, offered me to share the opinion that it was required to give to the political Commissions of the European Union and budget on matters of its own competence, essential for the future of the nation, that is, culture and education, I have joined: I have done it with great naturalness, precisely because they are essential issues for the future of the nation and the country is going through a difficult phase to say the least. Sharing means sharing, and that is what should have been done - probably upstream - by the Government, i.e. agreeing the guidelines for the Rebirth and Resilience Plan. I had joined before reading them: once I had done so, I had to desist from this intention and trench myself into a minority opinion, because it is impossible to give an opinion on nothing, which would also render the opinion null and void. The truth, ladies and gentlemen, is that, especially with regard to culture and education, in the 38 miserable pages written by the Government there is practically nothing: a single paragraph, two half pages side by side with each other in which culture appears in the title but not in the development, in which we list known problems, we identify discounted solutions and we do not say a single word about how to achieve those objectives and everything is done except to give ourselves a systemic vision of the problems. This is serious with regard to education and university. That on research is perhaps the most appreciable chapter, if nothing else because there is a clear intention of spending, put black and white. On culture, it is truly disconcerting that the Government neglects an industrial sector that actually generates wealth for 90 billion per year; that gives employment to more than 6% of the workforce; that it represents the natural flywheel of the tourism industry. We hear a lot of repeating the expression that tourism is an industry: well, let's put it on income, but to do this we have to make it march together with the cultural industry. Moreover, it is an element of national identity, it is the element that most contributes to recognize Italy in the world. All this has been resoundingly underestimated and ignored by the Government; for this reason we felt obliged to write a minority opinion, of which I read some points just to leave them in the dark of the drawers of parliamentary acts: avoid rain interventions, adopting a systemic vision that holds together culture, tourism and youth employment; concentrate, in agreement with the Italian National Association of Municipalities (ANCI), public interventions, and therefore investments, fiscal incentives, bureaucratic and administrative simplifications, on the historical villages of the internal areas, because they are the element of national identity, the spinal column of the country and are those that risk depopulation; therefore, enhancing the artistic, cultural and landscape heritage of the historical villages of the internal areas means revitalizing the country. Applying to the cultural industries those objectives of simplification, responsibility and self-certification, which in the guidelines of the Government are hypothesized for public administration, must be a universal rule because, if we do not really simplify - it is clear that the simplification decree has not simplified anything - the acts charged to the citizen, the entrepreneur and the operator of the cultural industry, nothing will really be able to move. It is necessary to devote substantial part of the European funds allocated to digital production and distribution of audiovisual content to defend the national audiovisual industry from unfair competition from the global over the top (OTT), possibly encouraging them to produce films and television series that do not only rely on the worst of the nation: it is okay to deal with mafia, camorra, young prostitutes, but that is not only what our history, our culture and even our chronicle have created over time. It is necessary to strengthen the financial structure of companies in the sector with measures to support risk capital; to encourage with a national strategic plan the amalgamations between cultural enterprises and the collaboration between the public and the private; to ensure legal dignity to the workers of the show also through the definition of a statute of the work of the arts; to censor and digitize the cultural goods, the historical and religious paths of Italy; to support the show live. In this regard, in the last few days two splendid and heartfelt interviews have come out of two classical music giants, Riccardo Muti and Antonio Pappano, who were two screams of pain, but I think I can say that this Government has not collected them at all. Colleagues of the Government, the truth is that these guidelines do not guide, they do not lead anywhere, because there is no goal that you have given yourselves and there is no concrete path that you have identified. These are more congresses than government acts: they list known problems, they identify discounted solutions, nothing is added to what is already known. This is a wrong, it is an offense not so much to parliamentary oppositions and not only to the operators of the world of culture and education: it is a wrong, an offense to those future generations that the European Commission rightly places on you and to us as natural interlocutors at a time of such serious difficulties for the country and for its future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u66	She's enlisted to speak Senator Garnet. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u67	Mr President, this is a unique and unrepeatable opportunity, which Europe offers us today, to benefit from almost EUR 209 billion of loans, of which EUR 80 billion is lost. Italy is the country that has benefited from the largest share. The European Commission, with the Next Generation EU, has allocated a total of €750 billion to overcome the economic crisis resulting from the pandemic, through a National Recovery and Resilience Plan. In the allocation of EUR 750 billion between Member States, it has defined three criteria: population, per capita income and average unemployment over the last five years. According to these criteria, Italy has been allocated 209 billion euros, the most important slice of the total amount. If the criterion had been only that of the population, Italy would have received only €97,5 billion, or less than half. The remaining share - EUR 111.5 billion - was allocated to Italy because the Mezzogiorno has an average per capita income of 17,000 euros compared to 33,000 in the Centre-North and an unemployment rate of 17% compared to 7.6 percent in the Centre-North. I would like to say this in order to alert you to the real risk that once again, despite the recommendations of the European Union and the reassuring declarations of intent, the South, because of the delays in planning, remains behind. We know, in fact, that most of the infrastructure essential to the South to bridge the gap and relaunch the development of the territories is in a state of extremely backward design, so it is essential that effective measures be identified as quickly as possible to speed up the planning and authorisation procedures, indispensable to make available immediately those resources also for the Mezzogiorno. It is essential that the identification of the destination of the resources of the recovery fund follows the criterion for equalization and, therefore, action is taken for the South with particular regard to those sectors which suffer a condition of net disadvantage. I am referring specifically to mobility infrastructure, public health, school building, university facilities. In the context of mission 4 (Education, Training, Research and Culture), given that Council Recommendation 2 on the National Reform Programme of Italy 2019 called on our Government to take measures to improve school outcomes, including through appropriate targeted investment, and to promote skills improvement, public expenditure on education, research and development must be increased in order to bridge the expenditure gap in relation to GDP vis-à-vis the average of the EU countries, so as to place Italy above that level in the time frame of the Next Generation EU programme. The proposals identified provide for the strengthening of policies for school inclusion and the fight against abandonment and dispersion, through tools to support disability and fragility. School staff are the most paid and encouraged staff of the public administration, the oldest and most precarious; therefore, it is necessary to invest in training in the service of teaching and administrative staff that is paid and in strengthening, increasing and developing the laboratory activities of technical and professional institutions. In addition, a strong investment is needed to improve the teaching of STEM disciplines (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), in which Italy has the highest training gap compared to other European countries. Specific economic incentives must be planned for the profession of teachers, on which the quality levels of the service provided depend. Further action is also needed for inclusion and against school dispersal and educational poverty. I refer, in particular, to the increase in the legal staff on support, which is no longer a matter of referral; to the reduction in the number of pupils per class; to the strengthening of public provision in the zero-six-year segment, through the adoption of a school building plan for the establishment of state centres for children; to the integration of the training offer in primary school, through the inclusion of musical and choreutic paths in full time, and to the introduction of the specialized teacher of motor sciences. Moreover, investments in school and university infrastructure in terms of energy efficiency, anti-seismic and technological modernisation are of strategic importance. Investment in research and development, as well as in measures for the right to study, must help to increase the number of graduates, who are currently well below the European average. These will have to ensure that young researchers are included in appropriate career growth paths, including innovative ones, in public or private research centres. To this end, it is also appropriate to invest in higher technical education by strengthening the network of technical training in all regions and territories of the country and supporting the technical-scientific pathways also for the post-graduate specialization for professionalism of close connection with the world of work and university. In addition, actions are essential to encourage foreign researchers to carry out research activities in Italy, also with the investment on the best ideas in all disciplines for research projects in the artistic and musical fields. Information and communication technology needs to focus on data infrastructures, artificial intelligence, computer security, blockchain applications, quantum mechanics. Particular attention should be paid to the development and dissemination of environmental research and development, accelerating the acquisition of skills and the dissemination of technologies to support the green transition. These are central challenges for the economic and social development of the country, which cannot miss this historic opportunity to lead the process of scientific and technological innovation on which all the most advanced countries are investing. In the medical field it is necessary to introduce measures to overcome the training funnel between the degree course in medicine and the schools of specialization; to recalibrate the closed number in the faculties with programmed access, especially scientific and, in the light of the experiences linked to the pandemic, to relaunch national schools of specialization of general medicine and emergencies of the territory. In terms of culture, we must relaunch the concept of widespread culture as a development key for our country, strengthening the link between the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage and environmental protection in the context of a new sustainable development in which the potential of technologies applied to the field of cultural goods and activities are developed. In particular, appropriate resources will have to be allocated for the recovery and enhancement of the extraordinary treasures of the small villages, promoting the structure of tourism more widespread and diluted throughout the national territory and not concentrated only on the cities of art. Indispensable is also the planning of interventions to prevent the damage caused by climate change on the historical, artistic, monumental and archaeological heritage. On the cultural front, the workers of the entertainment world were among the most penalized by the restrictions imposed and by the anti-Covid prevention measures. Therefore, it is now improcrastinable that a statute of the work of the arts is put into place in line with the provisions of the European Parliament resolution of 7 June 2007 on the social statute of artists in order to ensure adequate social protection and shock absorbers for all workers in the world of culture, entertainment and performing art, in line with what has been defined by the emerging measures adopted so far. Finally, in the field of sport, also with a view to overall urban regeneration and the regeneration of cities, resources must be invested for the redevelopment and construction of sports facilities at the service of schools, but open to the territorial community, especially in the urban suburbs, in order to promote social inclusion, recovery of degraded socio-economic contexts and dissemination of sports and motor practice to all, with particular regard to disability. Realizing this ambitious program of economic, educational and social reforms through the extraordinary resources that we will have available will mean starting our country towards a path of growth and recovery that, due to restrictions, austerity policies and fiscal compact, up to now seemed to be definitively foreclosed. A critical issue, therefore, has turned into a great opportunity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u68	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u69	Mr President, GDP will fall by 10% in 2020. Confindustria's study centre predicts this development for the national economy due to the impact of the Covid crisis. For the same source, the number of employees will fall by 1.8% in 2020. These are percentage numbers, cold figures that can already be impressed on paper but that are dramatic in real life: they mean 410,000 people who have lost or will lose their jobs by the end of this year; a dizzying public debt that risks being irrecoverable if there is no economic breakthrough, a debt that will weigh like a boulder on the future of the nation and on the new generations; an average growth rate of 0.8% of the Italian economy in the last decade compared to a European average of 1.6%; a research and development expenditure of 1.3% against a European average of 2.1; an employment rate of 10 percentage points below the European average: 73.2% versus 63 percent of Italy; public investment below 3% of GDP. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the economic framework in which we are moving, not at all reassuring, which puts us on a dangerous ridge if we cannot make the right choices in this which may be the last chance not for the government or the majority holding but for the nation. We are talking about over EUR 200 billion, a loan part and a grant part. 70% must be committed in the years 2021 and 2022 and the remaining 30 by 2023: an important figure to be committed in a relatively short time. From here comes the first concern: in the face of a historical criticality in spending European resources totally, the doubt arises that we will have probable difficulties in presenting projects and committing resources. But even more we are concerned about the little capacity of this Government to realize in serious projects the guidelines of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan: 100 billion extraordinary resources, resources equal to some budget laws, many of which have been squandered in inadequate actions, in the decrees care Italy, relaunching, liquidity and finally the August decree; non-structural actions but based on a general welfare aim in itself, an endless series of bonuses and waste of resources that have hardly served. With this measure we speak, yes, of the future but the present is the real drama: workers who still have not received the Cassa Integrazione, professionals and artisans who have not received any contribution and the famous bazooka of the liquidity decree has proved to be a real failure: entire production sectors zeroed and I am thinking in particular of tourism. The school system is in disarray with a minister unable to handle the situation, without talking about justice and the prison system. The infrastructure system is now in collapse. But despite all this, despite your citizenship incomes, your bankruptcy sanatories, we can do it if - and I repeat if - you abandon your palace positions and return to living in the real country. The guidelines of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan are a list of good intentions, but they do not outline a precise structural recovery plan, and I speak of Nation, unlike many other colleagues who talk about the country. I would like to focus on something that is particularly dear to me, given my role in the Commission, namely agriculture. Everyone has noted that the agricultural system, during the closure of the activities due to Covid, has supported even if with enormous efforts, but the sector suffers from lack of attention, suffers from the lack of a vision plan for the future, suffers from lack of resources. I would remind you that of the EUR 100 billion put in place by the government decrees, just under two and a half billion have been made available directly to the agricultural sector. Even today, we cannot see, through the general lines of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (NPNR), a direct action for Italian agriculture, so much so that in the opinion expressed by the rapporteur in the Committee on Agriculture we read: "it is worthwhile the Commission's merit to include, in the draft report, a chapter specifically on the strategy for relaunching the agricultural sector, forestry and fisheries" and then to include a few dozen comments. In view of the final document - and I say this to my colleagues in the Commission - you have disappointed yourself. Although the document recognises the centrality of the primary sector of agriculture, there is no specific chapter, but interventions are distributed between different competences and this could certainly frustrate the impact on the agricultural sector. We therefore need a single planning for agriculture. I am thinking of the digital development of agriculture, expanding broadband also in those areas considered marginal. Of course, it will then have to be accompanied by appropriate training, starting also from schools as well as from specialized subjects. This could also promote the generational revival that is becoming an emergency in agriculture. An agriculture that can rely on technology also means better exploitation of soil, water resources, less consumption of chemicals and therefore greater optimization of production and better quality. How can we not then think of infrastructure investments in order to upgrade and optimize the logistics for the transport of the goods? It is necessary to promote the internal areas with a strong agricultural vocation, especially the mountain and hilly ones. The abandonment of those areas has an impact not only on agricultural activities, but also on the entire environmental system, from landscape care to the prevention of hydrogeological failure. We need a sustainability plan against the excessive presence of wildlife. Last but not least, food supply chains must be encouraged as a strategic axis for the growth of the national economy. We need resources and investments in some key areas of agri-food, with clear policies for the enhancement and protection of Italian products, greater protection of our brands of excellence from counterfeits that cause a loss to the sector of hundreds of millions of euros. We cannot forget the promotion, which must be encouraged and coordinated in order not to disperse resources and opportunities. I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are at a crossroads: we can only take the road to relaunch if we succeed in strengthening the production system, placing companies at the centre of political action and giving confidence to those who do business. We need to relaunch investment. We must make courageous and structural reforms of the country system and not demagogic reforms just to plant a political flag. We have to think about the future of the nation and not about the next political elections like this majority does, otherwise we risk dragging the nation into a coffin from which it will not be able to trace back. The Group of Brothers of Italy, as hitherto has always shown, as a patriotic force, will always be present to defend national interests, but our patience, like that of Italians and farmers, is ending. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u70	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a few reflections on the dialectic that has also been in the Chamber between the North and the South of Italy this morning, and I would like us to focus on contextual aspects at the time that we are living, that - as is right - lead us to a different era than those in which we have always heard the same considerations, namely that the gap between the North and the South must be reduced; there must be no contrast between the North and the South; the infrastructure gap in the South must be eliminated. I think the time has come, given the time we live in, given the opportunity represented by the resources that we should have from Europe, to say the watchwords and get out of the corner of this affair, because many times in the palaces we misread what they want in the South. What are the passwords? No to assistantism, no to the rainy contributions, no to the statism, because this is the real South, the South that wants - as in other ways the North wants it - that Italy is actually united and a responsible Government must avoid hindering the entrepreneurs of the North who have dragged Italy and, at the same time, must allow the South no one to remain on its knees. [[Applause.]] A responsible government should not even have allowed the accounting records to be notified in Italian homes from 16 October next, at such a difficult time, which requires a certain responsibility. So no to assistantism, no to rain contributions, no to statism. State intervention must be limited to this phase, in which the State must intervene peremptorily to get out of the crisis, after which it must be able to leave room for private initiative; it must be able to value the excellences of the South: professional excellences, territorial excellences and entrepreneurial ones. This is the towel. How to spend resources? Good and, therefore, based not on a summation of projects, but on a strategy, based on a vision and also on priorities. I have heard legitimately, during the debate, about the importance of gender equality. I totally agree. I've heard about the acceleration in the energy transition. Mr Arrigoni has explained very well why caution must be exercised. But the priorities in the South - and I'm telling you as a man in the South - are others. The South serves the roads; the South serves the railways; the South serves the airports. They are all infrastructures, as well as digital ones, without which we cannot talk about development in the South or even a reversal of the trend towards the whole country. You have to spend it now. This means that for real, and not for fiction, it is necessary to cut the Italian bureaucracy with a stroke of darkness. It must be made clear to President Conte that, where the money really comes, he must get out of his head to do other tasks, to appoint commissioners or to set up structures that must control and control. We must accelerate and, above all, give the possibility to those who govern the territory, even passing through the mayors, even starting from the mayors, to be able to spend those resources. Many of my colleagues - and I have not been very convinced even some of my colleagues in the majority - have said that, between the recovery fund and the 2030 South Plan, there are only fine words, the usual fine words. The money we are discussing now must be interpreted for what it actually is, that is, an opportunity to restart and relaunch the territory. There has been a bad page in this election campaign, Mr President, impersonated mainly by Minister Di Maio, who used resources (with the question mark) as an electoral instrument, without explaining, in the few squares where he went, one project, but promising EUR 209 billion for any good initiative. That means we're out of ideas, so we're not going anywhere. In conclusion, Mr President, as far as the analysis and management of this phase is concerned, President Conte has allowed himself to escape, in the various interviews he has given, that if this Government is not able to manage the current phase at its best, the Italians would be free to send it home. The Italians would have done so very willingly if only this Government had given the Italian people the opportunity to do so! [[Applause]] ; and not so much because the Government will be incapable, as it has been so far, but because there are two requirements for the majority, requirements that any ruling class must always have and that, especially in delicate moments such as the one in which we live, it is moral duty to possess: courage and vision; courage to really reverse the course, to re-launch Italy and get out of a dialectic frankly become stucco; a vision to understand and indicate where is the landing place to which Italy must aim not tomorrow, and not for a mere electoral calculation, but for the future of our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u72	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u73	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the path we are taking together and which sees us engaged in these days, before in the Commissions and today in this House, is of great importance. We must all have a conscience that, in some way, we are beginning to deal with a subject that will have an historical impact on the future of our country. As many Members have already mentioned, more than 200 billion is a unique and extraordinary opportunity. In the last decades of our country's life, there has never been an opportunity to make investments of this magnitude. Perhaps it is also because you are fully aware of all this that yesterday, in the Commissions reunited 5th and 14th, there was no vote against; perhaps because, beyond propaganda and so many cries to things that do not go, then you have the awareness that the design that has been built is not then so problematic, critical or negative and that, if someone else had to write it, it would not have written it in a very different way. Moreover, even in the criticisms I hear about what our country has done so far, there is always a lack of comparison with what other countries have done or perhaps what the political forces that complain should have done. The trend and path of our country, compared to those of other nations, not only European, show that Italy is not put so badly in the management of the pandemic, considering also the tools that are being put in place to face the economic crisis. Having said that, the document we are going to vote on and approve today contains some important passages. I would like to focus on what I consider to be one of the cornerstones of the Plan, namely the green and sustainable environmental transition. In this respect or, better, in passing on from this point, there is a whole series of other interventions which, to some extent, need to be brought to light by this objective. If we are talking about reducing air pollution and air particulate matter or sustainable mobility, we are certainly talking about issues affecting the lives of all people. But these two areas, together with so many others, to some extent pass from the lives of citizens as such, i.e. from the lives of the people who live in our cities. So it is the city the place, the space, the environment within which many of the green projects that will be realized with the recovery fund will be able to see their realization: the urban regeneration, the redevelopment of the suburbs, the security anti-seismic (especially of the school buildings), sustainable mobility, the local public transport, the energy efficiency of both private buildings and public structures, the waste cycle and with it the theme of the circular economy, the reduction of pollution. These are all issues that pass through the lives of our cities. Already in the budget law, but also in the follow-up measures, we will have to pay great attention - on the one hand - to the resources and - on the other hand - to the powers that will be conferred on mayors and cities to implement the projects and the PNRR itself. The issue of waste management obviously involves the question of their reduction, as well as the adaptation and coordination of waste management policies on a national basis. Even today in every region, in every province and I would say in every city, according to the manager, we have different ways of managing the separate collection; in one place the tetrapak is thrown into the paper, in another place in the plastic and in another still in the mixture. First of all, we need to rationalise the issue of separate collection, in order to promote the circular economy and to benefit territories and citizens. There is also the theme of the connection between waste management, especially the wet fraction, and the water cycle; from this connection important benefits can be generated in terms of circular economy, through the production of natural gas, which obviously impacts further on the economic system. Mr President, with regard to the issue of energy redevelopment of buildings, I think it will be very important to direct the resources that we will have available to strengthen the ecobonus by 11% and the earthquakebonus mainly towards public housing. In each region there is a huge amount of so-called popular houses - be they regional or municipal - that need almost everywhere very important redevelopment interventions. Let's start with energy redevelopment: we also give mayors and regional presidents the opportunity to use the 110% ecobonus to restore this great heritage of our country. The same applies to schools. I also quickly touch the theme of the reclamations of the disused areas. Many of the urban regeneration interventions that have to do with abandoned areas cannot continue, they cannot be carried out because they lack adequate resources to do the reclamation. In this case, too, we use the resources that will be made available to us in Europe to give a boost to the recovery of these areas, of these areas and thus to promote the economic recovery of many territories. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u74	Mr President, as a group we have already anticipated a fundamental position, namely that we should not say no to recovery and, generally speaking, to the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, because of course we are talking a little about the fate of our country. However, we want to try to put some stakes. In the meantime, the stakes concern the substantial problem of project selection and the method, in the sense that projects must be chosen on the basis of time, ability to monitor them and knowledge. We know very well that some sort of informal grid has been made with about 600 projects, which we have examined to understand a bit of what it was, even though we know it was something informal. From there we basically understood two things. First of all, we have understood that these projects - frankly whether or not they have been pulled out of the drawers is a paradoxically secondary problem - must be reduced to a synthesis and not, if they were, taken to a mold or a photocopy: they must be included in a general framework. Secondly, in our opinion, there is a problem of knowledge of the same because, apart from the fact that there is a grid, that there are objectives and that perhaps funding is indicated, if I ask a Ministry - as I have happened to do - to have data with reference to a project called "Della gaiezza," I would like the Ministry to be so kind as to provide me with more precise data. I have set an example, but it is clear that we must have knowledge. There is therefore a discourse of method, time, monitoring of the times, of knowledge of the projects and, as some colleagues have pointed out, of involvement of the local realities, therefore of the municipalities and the regions. Wanting then to understand how the guidelines developed, always reading the grid - which I call so because of course I cannot give it an officiality - I think the basic observations that we can make are quite simple and shared. From the opinions that have been given by the Commissions, from the work that has been illustrated by President Pesco and President Stefano as rapporteur, we have basically understood that the choices relating to our infrastructures - meaning for them, both railway infrastructure, connections with airports, freight transport and so on, and digital infrastructures - are and will be fundamental to our gross domestic product. Moreover, we know very well that there are areas in the country where gross domestic product has grown by as much as 7 points, compared to the so-called internal areas, which, to understand, are not only those isolated (such as the Apennine countries or some countries affected by the earthquake), but are also internal urban areas, cut out and narrowed a bit in this logic of contrast between North and South. In this regard, we can understand that the road ahead is mobility and digital infrastructure, as has always been the case for the substantial development of civilizations. Forgive me for comparison, but if we still walk the roads that the Romans built today, obviously the possibility of identifying strategic infrastructures certainly exists, because their empire certainly built on the army, but also on the fact that it brings the roads to the whole European world. I do not think there is much to add to this, except on a matter that I care about. Much has been said about digitisation, but we must be aware that the country is not fully alphabetized from the point of view of digital techniques. Not everyone in the country knows how to use the Internet, smartphones and computers and they have a connection. It is therefore clear that this puts into crisis any kind of project that is intended to be carried out, for example for school or the environment. So people need to know how to use this kind of tool. Finally, I should like to conclude with a subject which I also care about, on which the Commission of which I am a member is responsible. We have carefully looked at the projects contained in the grid, in which we can see the addresses in the field of justice. I have to say that the projects have worried us a little, because they are quite disorganic: maybe on the one hand green machines for the prison police are expected, but you don't know why they are expected only for them. Then there are resources for some institutions for minors and others not. In this case too, therefore, it must be reduced to a synthetic plan. Do you have to take care of judicial construction? Perfect: let the citadels be made where they do not exist and put in place everything point. You don't have to make a project for the earthquake, one for the energy and one for the green on the same building. The same applies to housing, means, personnel and so on. So, I think we need logic and organization to manage the recovery fund. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u75	She's enlisted to speak Senator Lonardo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u76	Mr President, Ministers, fellow senators, the last few weeks have seen us united in a close work, based on comparison and listening, to arrive at the presentation to the Assembly of the proposal for guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. For this result I address my most heartfelt thanks to Presidents Dario Stefano and Daniele Pesco, for the collaborative way and the institutional grace with which they presided the 14th and 5th Commissions. I would like to express my special thanks to the Undersecretary Laura Agea, to whom I must acknowledge the undisputed competence and the same willingness. A work has been carried out together not simply in the contents, but also in the times, and perseverance, as always, has produced its fruits. I would also like to thank all my fellow Members for the contributions of the values offered which have allowed the final drafting of the document that we are voting on today. To all - no one excluded - goes the merit of the search for a completeness of treatment of each of the points worthy of being addressed in order to put the country in the best possible conditions to share. Thanks to the executives of the Commissions for having shown great professionalism, and precisely that professionalism, of the joint commitment and of a common vision is permeated the entire document today in the vote, in which I can say that I have also seen transposed some of the proposals I have made and particularly dear to me. I greatly appreciated the point devoted to relaunching the Mezzogiorno, which was considered worthy of particular attention with a view to renewal and recovery. The same attention devoted to the Mezzogiorno will certainly have to be paid to the internal areas, so that the concepts of social and territorial equity become a beacon to follow, and so that our Mezzogiorno can see a brake on the perennial attacks on its identity, which have condemned it to an atavistic backwardness of which sometimes, even if it is forgotten, it suffers the whole of Italy. Moreover, digital education, because if among the first missions of our National Plan there is the will to digitize the country, certainly cannot miss the Government's desire that this technology be used correctly. However, it was not necessary to fall into the conceptual deception of digital competence. Knowing how to use technology does not mean knowing how to use it well, without harming oneself and others, because the difference between digital competence and digital education is not so trivial, and the consequences of diseducation, or even worse than a digital maleducation, can be very dramatic. We go from technological dependencies of various kinds to so-called digital dementia, to cyberbullying, which generates victims every day among our young people, to different forms of cybercrime. In order for digitalization to truly represent a resource for our country and to be an instrument at our service and never - and I say never - the opposite, i.e. an instrument of slavery and dehumanization, we will need to prepare society, building a training designed precisely to create that education to a correct use of technology and the Network in general. Digital education will have to reach our schools, but also in the world of work, among professionals of all generations, in order to involve not only professionals, but even those who, among them, are parents, because a correct parenting example can help the whole of society by transmitting the culture of self-respect, of the other and of the world around us, to give all the parents of Italy the courage to educate: only in this way can we make this world a better place for our next generation. Last but not least, I would like to recall the acceptance of the proposal on resilience training, which obviously goes for education to respect, for emotional literacy and training to empathy, with the aim of curbing, containing, but above all preventing the dramatic phenomena of bullying, cyberbullying and gender violence, the discrimination that has made our youngest social fabric bleed for too long now. There is a time to sow, paying attention to that every sod of land available gives the maximum of the fruits that it is able to produce. This is our time to sow, and this is what we have done, working together today, preparing all the appropriate tools to promote and increase the chances of recovery of our country to the advantage of Italians. This is the main task of those who want to make politics: to educate the community in the values of altruism and solidarity. It is the only way to achieve a peaceful cultural revolution. The political offer cannot be limited to denouncing the disaster that the spread of the pandemic has created in society, but it must offer a concrete vision of change that looks at man in his natural social dimension and that seeks to break down the barriers of disintegration and individualism. The parent is respected and loved by his children when he incarnated an altruistic cultural model, taking care of all their material and existential needs, never appearing as a despot, but only and always as a certainty on which to rely. The same goes for politics, which today has taken care of its citizens, accompanying them towards the post-Covid era, with self-denial, far-sightedness and responsibility. For these reasons, I am voting in favour of this document. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u77	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amendola, today we are talking about guidelines, recovery funds and projects. I must say that thanks to the changed attitude towards the European Union, which is now stronger with the defeat of sovereignism, the countries that have suffered with us very heavy effects due to the pandemic have joined forces and are now faced with a historic opportunity that cannot be wasted at all, such as the possibility of using extraordinary funds for interventions, organic and system measures to improve the situation that has come about with the pandemic. Therefore, since the pandemic crisis, we are faced with an opportunity which must not be wasted, but which must be exploited with a view to giving guarantees of improvement for the interests of the next generations, just as the European Commission says with the definition Next generation EU. However, greater attention is needed, we cannot fail to identify the objectives to be achieved, we have a great responsibility to the new generations themselves. The guidelines that have been issued by the government will help us not to miss the route compared to this important step. The PNRR will focus on six missions, identified through the guidelines: digitisation, innovation and competitiveness, green revolution, ecological transition, mobility infrastructure, education, training, research and culture, social equity, gender and territorial, and health. My group's colleagues, but many others have also spoken about these missions. I have to focus on health, which I believe is necessary and important. With reference to the guidelines that we mentioned in the document that was presented there were not many lines dedicated to the health mission. On the other hand, I believe that this mission must be integrated into all the parts where the other missions are also addressed. That is to say, this mission must be cross-cutting to all the others. This is important because if we communicate health and the environment we are absolutely in the guidelines. Of course, there will be all the well-defined projects, as we pointed out in the opinion we expressed in the Commission. I must also say thanks to the oppositions that have abstained and that, instead, from the speeches that we have heard today, seem to be contrary to everything that is being done. It is therefore necessary to resume the reorganization and digitisation in the National Health Service, hospitals and nursing homes, enhancing school, gender and family medicine, and the reorganisation of counselors. All the issues we have listed in our opinion must be taken into account in what will be the strategic plan to be delivered to Europe. However, there is one issue that I am very interested in and especially in; the psychological and mental health of people, which has put a strain on all those people who had discomfortable situations during this period of pandemics. I am thinking of those who have lost their jobs, of those who have suffered mourning, of women who have had to face the situation with a great deal more responsibility. I believe that in the face of the pandemic that does not leave us and grabs us even more, the issue of psychological and mental health is important. On this point, as Europe also tells us, we must continue to invest. This is the most important thing; we invest in the help that people must have because the issue is not just economic. It is also necessary to examine the health and well-being of the whole person in a holistic sense and, therefore, mental and psychological health are fundamental and important. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u79	She is registered to speak Senator Borgonzoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u80	Mr President, I would like to begin by saying how a previous colleague did, saying that there is little in the guidelines about culture and that little is confused. They're general lines that don't give us an address or a view. In this House, we have already talked about culture and what it is for a sector that already before Covid was critical in many of its parts. Even if these funds come, we do not know what will be allocated to culture next year and next. And even if the funds arrived, they could not be taken and used in commercial interventions if they did not decide before making a reform of the Ministry. Think, for example, of a musical direction, which is totally missing in the Ministry. Music is a very important industrial sector in our country, but it has not even been called to general states. I would like to remind you - in this House little is said about it and little is of interest, since we had also tabled an amendment that was not voted on - that the rain of Equitalia's records for Italians will also reach the people who take the copyright of SIAE. The question is that copyright, since it is not a salary, will be taxed at 100%. [[Applause.]] These are 30,000 folders that will reach 30 percent of the people enrolled in SIAE and that not only have minor revenues, because there have been no country parties, carnival, concerts (many have been cancelled) and many bars have remained closed, but of those revenues 100 percent will be taken away from him. And nobody in this House says anything. When we talk about culture, it's nice to fill your mouth; it's quite chic and we all feel a bit "pussy" to talk about culture and to say: this should be done because culture is important. But then, when we have to do the concrete things, we all turn to the other side. When the amendments are tabled and we have to point out what are the most important ones, we have a whole part of the majority that does not even pass through the antechamber of the brain to put forward amendments related to culture. [[Applause.]] A review of the study plan must be carried out and a way must be found to give adequate salaries to those who work in the world of culture. Structural and real social shock absorbers are needed, which do not exist today for all the hundreds of thousands of people who are still living in lockdowns today, because in fact the work they do is no longer distributed. They found themselves unemployed, had to reinvent themselves and received no help from the government. I want to make it clear how little the culture is central to this Government: in the first decree it was not even mentioned; in the second one, we tabled some amendments but, as I said, the majority did not even think of pointing out, of the few who have tabled, their amendments on culture. For the rest, we are always hoping that maybe something will come. It takes a strong understanding between the state, regions and local administrations to put our heritage into a real network, not just in words. We need a serious development of the archaeological network of our territory. In the Commission we will also talk about Sibari and make it a UNESCO heritage site. Well, let's talk about what needs to be done, because now it's even more difficult to get recognition when applications are submitted. Let's talk about what's missing and what's been done there or hasn't been done over the years. Let us start to put our minds to it and not just to make mere electoral ads to say: we have also presented a site that is in Calabria; good for us, so we tell our voters. But that's no use to the territory. We need real answers instead. I would like to talk about a couple of projects instead of which Mr Franceschini mentioned and which concern the possible funds when they arrive. With regard to one of them, I have to say thank you because it was only in the motion that the League tabled in this Chamber: I am referring to satellite control of the assets. It was a project that I had presented as Undersecretary and that we had begun to put on the field when the League was also in the government. On digitalization, however, we have to tell ourselves that we are a country with too many white areas, where digitization makes you laugh even just to say it: there are guys who can't even do lessons with the computer because there is no line. We must protect what we digitize; for these things we must make a mark that must be managed by the State, the Ministry and the local authorities, which today does not happen because we use external agencies. In conclusion, I would just like to talk about the importance of Cinecittà in audiovisual projects and I hope that everyone agrees on this. For me it was a priority when I was Undersecretary and I think it must be for all of us: seriously relaunching Cinecittà and investing on it because I will not say that it is an oil well, because rightly many could say that an oil well runs out, but for us it is an immense heritage that will never end and on which we must start investing seriously. In addition, investments cannot only be aimed at recovery and restoration. All our creativity, all the people who work in this world, must be put to the system, because one thing cannot be distinguished from the other. Let us also remember that putting culture at the centre means having a better future starting from our roots. Let's just stop saying it; let's put it into practice once and for all [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u81	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, one of the strategic challenges facing the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is the digital transition of our country. This objective, in order to be centered, needs to be declined in the way and in what to do. We know that digitisation will bring positive reflections of undoubted value: investment in digital can increase the rate of growth and even double it; can provide new jobs, going to increase the employment rate for high-skilled professionals and more. Digital development also improves the BES indicators and reduces territorial gaps. We already have many examples of workers who have moved back to our southern areas, while maintaining their employment in London or Amsterdam, because they are high-paid jobs that bring wealth to our South Italy. These work are environmentally sustainable, because they reduce the need for travel, commuting and consequently traffic and pollution. These works, requiring better school preparation, especially in the degrees in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), contribute to raising the country's cultural level. Given this, when it is said to focus investment on the digital transition, how can we achieve the objective? Firstly, action is needed on public administration, which in an innovative state can act as a driver for digitisation. I would like to thank Commissions 5a and 14a for accepting in the final document the opinion drawn up by the 1st Commission, which highlights the important actions for public administration. The powers of the public administration are fundamental. It will have to recruit a new qualified management to design procedures natively computer science; moreover it is necessary to reverse the outsourcing policy of the public administration, that has produced emptying of computer skills and prevented the generational turnover. A new recruitment policy is needed to bring IT management back into the public administration, consisting of staff with their advanced digital skills and leading industry professionals with proven titles and experience. Software programmers, system planners, data analysts, network technicians, IT security engineers must be recruited with an appropriate remuneration at market level. The aim must be to recruit the best professionalism, linking them to the service and mission proper to the public administration, also in view of the return of the brains and the new recruitment from foreign countries. The question of competences in public administration is fundamental, because digitisation is not done with the magic wand, but with the experience and skills of this kind of professional. Part of the Next generation EU funds must be used for this new workforce. Unfortunately, there is a shortage of these skills throughout Europe. The advanced countries hunt these brains all over the world and also in Italy; so our new graduates STEM (science, technology, engineering and mathematics), who easily find jobs abroad, leave our country empty of these skills. As part of STEM training, we have two problems: a low number of graduates and a recruitment system that does not value them as abroad. We must act in both directions. In the first place, the mathematical, scientific and digital skills of both adults and children need to be increased, without gender distinction. It is also necessary to improve the system of acquisition of skills, starting with the training of teachers. School programs must be changed from elementary to elementary: once in elementary school they were taught to compile a telegram, today they must teach the instruments of individual productivity and computational thought. In addition to those on the human capital front of the public administration, the actions to be carried out in the short term concern digital infrastructures. Next generation EU funds must be invested in the implementation of the national cloud, under a dual guideline: on the one hand, the creation of the national strategic hub, i.e. the private cloud of public administration, as foreseen in the simplification decree, which must constitute the safe of the most valuable data of public administration; on the other hand, the creation of a large public-private partnership for the realization of the Italian public cloud, to which all Italian companies with proven competence in the sector participate, which will become the country's cloud infrastructure, on which all the services and applications created by companies, startups, but also by public administration, school, the world of university and research will be based. The very realization of the artificial intelligence strategy can only be based on the existence of a national cloud, so as not to reduce ourselves to mere consumers of artificial intelligence, but to aim for an active role in Europe in this area. Finally, there is a need to speed up the completion of ultra-wideband infrastructure. Therefore, ultra-wide band, national cloud, advanced digital skills represent the essential infrastructure for our country, on which is based a serious policy for the digital and technological sovereignty that Italy must implement, integrating it wisely within the framework of the European dimension. From these bases you can begin to build, for all state, regional and local administrations, interoperable services and platforms, remotely accessible and suitable for smart working. It is therefore necessary to recognise the State's competence to coordinate public administrations' infrastructure and IT platforms in order to coordinate and ensure the interoperability of systems and data. Services must be natively digital and allow a unified communication channel between citizens and public administrations, giving full implementation to the principle called once-only. The path takes place in three steps: firstly, existing databases are coordinated at national level and data are made available through the national data platform. Secondly, using this data, services are provided through the production of innovative software and, finally, the citizen is given access to services through connectivity and digital identity. Thanks to these enabling infrastructures, professionals will develop the innumerable digital services we need, for example, in the health system, in the judicial, in the school system, in the social security, in the tax, tax and financial fields, in agriculture, in transport, in tourism and more widely in the cultural sector for monitoring the ex post execution of projects and works and in every area of human action. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this difficult time for the world and for Italy we have an opportunity to exploit which could enable us to eliminate many of the delays that affect our economic and social system. We must be willing to make investments and, in particular, on human capital, which are necessary to make Italy competitive with our European and international partners. I am convinced that we will not waste these opportunities and we will overcome this ambitious, challenging and fundamental challenge for our future and that of our children. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u83	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amendola, I will not go into the substance of the proposals, except for the broad lines that the Education Commission has drawn up, distinguishing them between recommendations and observations, precisely to give the Government a road that can be carried out more carefully. I shall try, on the other hand, in the minutes that the Presidency gives me, to define, from my point of view, a framework in which Italy - I appreciated the reports this morning - should be placed. I am pleased to recall that the policies to which the Italian Government is working must be understood as a piece of a mosaic that concerns the other countries of the European Union and not as a single, individual and customizable fact. The reason lies in the fact that, beyond the many declarations of intent made during the lockdown that each of us would have come out of quarantine better, in the sense of better, and globalization would have stopped of enchantment, as if a historical process started more or less five hundred years ago can be blocked by fifty, sixty days of quarantine, that is the goal in which to place these policies, if we do not want the prophecy of several years ago that had to make Spengler on the sunset of the West not to come about. I would like to think that the policies of Italy in the heart of the European Union, together with the other countries of the European Union, in managing such massive investments are intended, on the one hand, to correct globalisation as we have known it, in fact driven by high finance and multinational companies, and, on the other hand, to try to build a sort of humanised state and, therefore, of the more humanised European Union able to make welfare a new social state at the heart of the new attentions of the Union in order to participate in the competitive challenge already opened by fifteen years between China and the United States of America. I remember two factors that are constant in history: first in the moments of change, although children of the emergency (the emergency may be, for example, a pandemic or a war) prepares a further change. The second constant is that change prepares for transition, so individual or state leadership prepares for such a phase. It is the reason why in the guidelines that are delivered to us, on which the Commissions have worked, there is no doubt that the four fields that bind with a single thread and which go under the name of education, culture, knowledge and innovation, must be at the center of attention together with the policies of the new green. Being at the center of attention means, as an old peasant motto used to say, that those who know more words always win. Here, also in the telematic society, in the society overpoweringly computerized and linked to a constant technological revolution, there is no doubt that those who know more words always win. I would like to add two points, Mr President, and finish. In the opinion that the Commission that I chair has issued, presenting it to the Government, there are three points around which the proposals put forward revolve. The first point concerns civic and social reorganization, the second concerns human relations and the third concerns the abandonment of bonuses to work on the issue of opportunities and therefore on investments related to opportunities to escape from the previous logic that I understand was indispensable at least in the months of spring. The five points that have been declined here I remember only for chapter: urban patchwork, enhancement of landscape and historic villages, knowledge, innovation and protection (because there is still a world completely devoid of protection and I think of the world of entertainment, culture and sport). Around these five points we have built working hypotheses. To deliver them, however, it is necessary to tie them under two conditions. As is the case at times of emergency, or as should be the case, oppositions should be involved and institutionally involved. We faced the bends of history in Italy in two different ways: at the end of World War I in one way and at the end of World War II in the opposite way. I keep thinking the opposite way is the right way. My second and final consideration concerns the involvement of Parliament, Minister Amendola, in all that will be the monitoring of the projects that the Government will present, for many reasons but above all because, Minister, from the conditions of emergency - pandemic, war or anything else - comes out above all by recreating a kind of civic spirit that involves even before the institutions the Italians, if you can all stay "at the stand" and create a condition of solidarity and above all hope. To do so, you have to be overwhelmed and pioneers: weird to keep an eye today and an eye on tomorrow, pioneers to put yourself at risk. These are the two essential conditions to emerge from the crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u85	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u86	Mr President, if we were not in mid-October and if we were not convinced that a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers will certainly block Santa Claus as well, we would interpret this document as a letter sent to Santa Claus, so much so that there are no great ideas for reflection or great questions within the document itself. A force like ours, strongly patriotic, has in the national interest the only lighthouse, as we have shown in the work of the House both to the Senate and to the House and has certainly put the national interest before its own particular interest. We do not care at all that Brothers of Italy reach 25% in a sick nation, we have always preferred to heal this nation and grow, with the responsibility that has always distinguished us, but never to the detriment of national interest. A force like the one I have the honour to represent arises, therefore, in front of a document such as this, of the questions that are in fact those that would pose "Mrs. Mary," whom we meet every day, the housewife at the supermarket. The first is: what is the end of this debate? We know very well that this plan must be presented in January, at the latest by 30 April, so given the date it is at least unusual that we have to deal with it already in mid-October. So we ask ourselves a few questions: does it serve to give the opposition a contentment, to make it involved, almost an incorrect call to themes, choices and decisions that we are going to make here in the spring? Is it a way of tacitizing the opposition that says that it has not always been involved, despite having - above all our component - manifested a great sense of responsibility? Or is it a way to continue in that furrow of glue of the majority, which requires that each representative of the majority be left with the possibility to insert something that characterizes it in order to hold it as united as the majority? These are the first questions we ask ourselves, but they are not the only ones. The further question, the most important, is: will these resources then be spent well? Will they really be structural, as Europe imposes on us, or will they be yet another brand like that of scooters that we have seen in previous decrees? I remind everyone, first of all to myself, that we have already been the protagonists of votes on the budgetary deviation that has guaranteed the government the possibility of affecting the territories through instruments, but in reality we also complain that 75% of these resources are still in the Treasury's belly, demonstrating that this majority is incapable, in fact, of being really incisive, because of the 80 or 100 billion euros of deviation today we have still not had the chance to see a huge external manifestation. Will we then have operating margin, not only for us in the minority, but also for you in the majority, in discussing, or are the recommendations coming from Europe so stringent that the margin is zero? This is a question for which we expect an answer before 30 April, so that we too can somehow influence a subject of extraordinary importance, which will mean that the choices we will make here in the spring will have a reflection not only on the next Government - which we obviously hope is different from today - but also on the next generations. It is true that Italy will receive these resources in the years 2021, 2022 and 2023, but since 2026 we will also begin to repay a huge share of these funds and therefore we also wonder what the methods will be, what will be the system by which we will devolve these resources to Europe; There is absolutely no need to know today. If, on the other hand, the impositions and recommendations will be those that Europe has made up to now, that is, the same medicine for the same disease, I believe that if in twenty years, and especially in the last ten years, national GDP has remained anchored at an average of 0.4 per cent while all other countries were growing, perhaps we should ask ourselves whether that medicine is really useful in restoring the economy of this nation or whether it should be radically changed. (14.46) (Followed by Mr de Carlo). But if it is to be profoundly changed, who will be the actors of this change? Certainly not those who have always paid for the burning of an atavic subalternity compared to Germany, France and those in Europe who have been ruling for years now. This really is an opportunity and the Central Bank has also noticed that today, unlike what happened at the time of austerity, it puts more resources, de facto untiring the monetary issue from the economic issue. The paradigm for which more resources in the market are a brake on development is over. In fact, it's exactly the opposite. Today there are 500 billion euros. Why not 5,000 right now? Why not? Why, if the austerity recipe turned out to be absolutely bankrupt, don't change the recipe? We are willing to reason on this too and also on this. If, instead, this was just another excuse to convey a message, yet another fake news about the ESM and the utility of the ESM? To tell us that these resources will only be available at the end of 2021, perhaps at the beginning of 2022, but that at the moment we need other resources, additional resources? Net of the fact that the ESM is not an additional resource, net of the fact that the ESM was constituted only and exclusively at the moment when the States were not able to collect resources through the sale of their securities (it is not the case of Italy, that it has even greater will of supply than the demand and, therefore, expresses the concept exactly opposite), if the ESM was a conditionality for which Europe and especially Germany, today has given us 'ok on this topic, linking these resources to the theme of the ESM, then you will find us, as always on the barricades, to make the only interest we know, that of the Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u87	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity given to us by the Next Generation EU and the National Recovery and Resilience Plan certainly does not happen every day. The approximately 200 billion euros that would arrive to Italy, between loans and grants lost, could be the opportunity, not only to recover from the crisis generated by the emergency health, but also to put our socio-economic system back in place and then put it back on track. To do this, however, we need a strong political determination, acting within the framework of a strategic vision that is not limited to individual interventions but establishes, once and for all, what kind of country we want to become. I am convinced, and all my institutional acts are there to testify, that the direction to be taken is that of a sustainable, green, biological Italy and finally free from a territorial gap that has lasted too long and is based on a major historical misunderstanding. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, it is essential to focus attention on large-scale projects and strategic vision, rather than on micro-sectoral interventions. Just as it is essential for Italy to present detailed draft guidelines as soon as possible, no later than next January. On the other hand, eco-sustainable projects which have little or nothing to do with the green revolution and which are seriously at risk of being rejected would waste valuable time, even in Europe. That is why I want to point out a number of objectives on which interventions should be concentrated in order to ensure that agriculture really takes up its historical role, as an economic driving force and as an environmental, landscape and cultural garrison. Firstly, the promotion of the agri-food, sustainable and organic sectors must be seriously encouraged, while at the same time discouraging supply chains that rely on chemicals and pollutants. In this context, by promoting quality food, it would also contribute to the fight against food waste and to the reduction of the health budget. In addition, action must be taken to make water resources truly efficient and to improve the capacity of the production and agricultural system to adapt to climate change. Further, action is needed to retrain the territory in the context of the containment of soil consumption and the mitigation of hydrogeological and seismic risks. I would also like to stress the fact that ecological conversion, on which the Government itself agrees, can only take place through the strong impetus for organic and sustainable agriculture, particularly in the Mezzogiorno. This can also be achieved by stimulating higher education in this field, for example by providing universities specialising in organic farming, which are currently lacking. Technological innovation projects in the agri-food and fisheries sector must also be financed, provided that this does not mean intervention aimed at "Frankenstein" agriculture, based on a view of nature as if it were a cow to milk. Furthermore, measures must certainly be put in place to safeguard agricultural production potential, including by avoiding further consumption of agricultural land, and a national plan for the sustainable transition process involving structural measures at enterprise and value chain level, complemented by national plans for bioeconomy, organic farming and the circular economy (we have also discussed this in the Commission). It is also useful to set up a centralized programme for the complete traceability of supply chains, but relying on institutions and universities that already do research in this area, without uncomfortableing Sogin, for example. It is important to encourage the adoption of zonal plans to develop water management and land recovery measures in order to increase the production capacity of the agricultural system and to reduce our dependence on imports (e.g. cereals). Sustainable and productive forest management (I am thinking, for example, of the development of truffles) must also be implemented through investments aimed at the maintenance and redevelopment of the forest and mountain areas, as well as introducing forms of economic support for enterprises in the agricultural and fisheries sectors that invest in sustainable production systems and eliminating incentives for practices such as sowing on soil, which make use of haddock and which are encouraged in many regions. Rural roads must be improved, with particular reference to mountain and inland areas, to promote access for young farmers to the land, to promote food and environmental education campaigns for proper nutrition and to counter food waste, to ensure decent and quality food, produced with mainly Italian raw materials and free of contaminants. Now I would like to highlight another game on which we are playing the future of our country and on which we cannot throw this historic opportunity into the wind: I am referring to the heavy gap between the North and the South of our country. The criteria for a fair distribution of the recovery fund, according to the parameters indicated by the European Union, are designed to reduce disparities between the different national territories, relying on economic interdependence. All this is fully consistent with what should be the priorities in Italy. According to the indications of the European Union, it is clear that the South is responsible for 70% of the resources provided for in the recovery fund. The EUR 208 billion that will be made available to Italy has been calculated on the basis of three factors: resident population, per capita income and unemployment rate. Following these criteria and accepting the recommendation to seek greater integration between North and South, the largest slice should go to the South, in order to bridge this gap. However, this unique opportunity must be managed at its best, with an overall and organic view of the type of development expected. Agriculture and sustainable tourism, transport to connect the isolated areas of the hinterland, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and artisans, public health, school, environment: these are the games in which you will not have to go back a step to restore dignity to the Mezzogiorno and make it the epicentre of a new idea of Italian and European progress. With the recovery fund there is finally an opportunity to remedy an injustice that has lasted for a century and a half: a country split in half, in which the Mezzogiorno has been systematically taken away resources and, with them, the very possibility of the future, as the territorial public accounts testify widely. Unfortunately the dominant propaganda would like to convince that there is a wasteful and washable South, but the truth lies in an inequality that has lasted for decades. Therefore, European funds - and I am going to conclude - will have to be wisely distributed; in order to really balance the existing gap the rule of 34% is no longer sufficient. The parameters indicated by Europe say that, if out of 100 euros invested in the Mezzogiorno 41 euros go to the North, out of 100 euros invested in the North 5 euros go to the South. So the goal is to rebalance and what is needed is to focus funding on the weakest part of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u89	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u90	Mr President, the opinion of the 13th Commission on the guidelines of the government is full-bodied and could not be otherwise, since 37% of the large investments for each country will have to concern the ecological transition. There are many issues dealt with in this opinion, such as stop to the consumption of soil, hydrogeological safety, waste, circular economy, the transition from environmentally harmful subsidies (SAD) to environmentally favourable subsidies (SAF), transport, energy. It is precisely on the energy that I want to dwell on, because on this we play a great game. We are starting from the old Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan (Pniac): let me say this because it is a document that actually looks extremely old today and - I regret to say - it already appeared so when it was drawn up, with the forecast of a 30% reduction in emissions and a gas-based energy transition, which would have brought us to 2030 again with 65% of hydrocarbons out of total energy consumption. Gas, we know, is a highly climatic element, which contributes to the ozone hole. Already with the green new deal, which has given itself more ambitious targets, with emission reductions around 55%, we had to some extent imposed a revision of the document, which today finds us even more bound, because it must be consistent with the objectives of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR) post-pandemic. It is therefore necessary to stress and reiterate, as Europe has already said, as the 13th European Council has done. The Commission and - I am pleased to see - as was also the view of the Commissions 5a and 14a, which must be directed, as well as the electricity strictly from clean and renewable energy sources, at hydrogen green, also in order to align Italy with the projects already in place in the rest of Europe - as in France and Germany, which have invested large sums on this sector, reminding us that we also have an advantage, that we can produce hydrogen from the sun and not necessarily only from the wind - but, above all, to free ourselves from this gas transition. It is therefore time to tell us that hydrogen from renewable sources is a reality to which we can entrust ourselves. There is, however, a "ma": you have to be careful about fossil dinosaurs, as defined in an e-book of October's "Manifesto." The fossil dinosaurs, in fact, return to the attack for the defense of their own interests, proposing hydrogen as a gas vector at 5 or 10 percent (just see the ENI and SNAM projects) and this in order not to give up the gas fields that are in the Mediterranean and on which they are doing great battle to contend for the management. Why are they talking about hydrogen, too? Because hydrogen is on the ridge of the wave, ready to take off the true energy transition. So we have to somehow tame it, bend it to interests. However, hydrogen does not need to be a gas carrier, and that is very clear, partly because the European Commission finally published the expected hydrogen strategy on 8 July, which complements the new industrial strategy of March (it is part of the green new deal package), which has the zero emission target at 2050. It states unequivocally that the priority must be given to green hydrogen, that produced from renewable sources, while discarding hydrogen from fossil sources, giving just an opening to the so-called blue hydrogen, the gas that should capture CO2 and seize it in a process called CCS. This escamotage does not convince, first because it is not proven the economic convenience with respect to hydrogen green and, if it is not tried today, it will certainly be proven exactly the opposite in four or five years, when it has been predicted that the hydrogen will go from 4 or 5 dollars per kilogram, to 2 dollars per kilogram, thus becoming competitive also with diesel. Compared to the type of hydrogen we have to think about, because I often hear about neutral technology, but technology is not, because it always has consequences. In fact, it happened that on 24 June, GasNaturally, a coalition of fossil companies, including ENI, pushed for the CCS (carbon capture and storage) technique to be considered a clean hydrogen. Thus the official document of 8 July was slightly modified, with a cautious opening also to blue hydrogen. However, we must not forget that already in 2007 the European Union, in the climate-energy package 20-20-20, invested more than EUR 1 billion in the creation of twelve demonstration plants, in the commercial production of electricity, with capture and storage of CO2, of which no news is yet available. All of this is certified by the report of a special Commission of the European Parliament. Therefore, I believe that experiments and investments in this area have already been made, that the time is ripe for hydrogen green and that there is no longer any discussion: we must proceed in this direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u91	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u92	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is all too clear that the guidelines presented by the Government to Parliament, in view of the more detailed recovery plan which we will have to present to the European Union next year, represent an embryonic document, yet to be developed and filled with content, specific projects and reforms. The guidelines do not go into the substance of the issues, there are no details, it is all general and, for this reason, to a large extent also agreeable. It is a mere exercise in style, one of the many that the Commission has used to, which risks remaining on paper if good intentions do not give way to concreteness. The bazooka of European funds could turn into a water gun if we do not move in the next few months with the right method. The situation would require more speed and decision, but unfortunately slow progress is being made, in a way that is too timid. Already in the early days of September, in France, when we still only made statements of intent, President Macron had produced a detailed document on how to use the funds of the Next Generation EU program: over 400 pages in front of your 40 pages, the numbers speak for themselves. More than guidelines, these are broad lines, a "spending list," in which the Government has included what it has long declared to want to achieve, but without following up its announcements. We have lost track of the South Plan and of reforms, until now, we have not even seen the shadow. The reform of justice, so flagrantly announced by Minister Bonafede, has never even been presented. The tax reform, which has been mentioned so much in recent days, should have started already for some time, while Minister Gualtieri still has to understand how to proceed in order to prevent it from being yet another flop. As far as public administration is concerned, the word "simplification" seems unknown to you. You have dared to issue a decree-law, defined precisely as "simplifications" that does everything but simplify the lives of citizens. Rather you have thought well, in such a delicate historical moment, to put the Italians in the sights of new charges, going to modify the road code, allowing the presence of speed cameras also in the cities and giving the possibility to ecological operators and bus drivers to punish, with salt fines, unruly drivers. In your decree no simplification, in short, but rules that have nothing to do with the subject, and for this reason you were also wandered by the President of the Republic. On the other hand, you legislate according to your conception of a state: the enemy state, which targets citizens rather than putting itself at their service, facilitate their lives and be friends with them. It is all too obvious that, if there is not a real qualitative leap in the efficiency and simplification of public administration procedures, the very complex mechanism of Next generation EU will remain on the stake and what we are dreaming for tomorrow's Italy will end up being just a beautiful mirage. The opportunity before us is unique: if Europe has finally done its part, it is now up to us. We have the last chance to change this country once again; the last call to create the conditions of a new economic boom, to give our children a future, to return to being a world economic power. An opportunity that must be managed with due caution because the funds that we will spend - I remind all of us - can represent a profitable investment, but also turn out to be a great boulder; a huge debt that will weigh on the shoulders of the new generations. We will have to move with the utmost attention, abandoning any ideological approach or electoral gain. We must go beyond the policy of bonuses and subsidies, of the integration fund: welfare is not the solution. Paraphrasing Mario Draghi, we must not save jobs, but create new ones. I would add that we must not just secure bridges and roads, but build new ones. We must not and cannot reason according to the paradigm of a world made of small borders; we must give this country the tools to face the challenge of modernity and globalization. In this challenge, the role of future public health will be very important, which must not continue to be considered a cost centre, but must necessarily be rethought as a resource for development, as a source of wealth, capable of creating employment. In the report on the guidelines, a paragraph is also dedicated to the health system, but for months Forza Italia asks the Government to exploit the support of the ESM: resources immediately available and at zero cost with which to modernise our health, hire new doctors and nurses, strengthen hospitals for emergency management, strengthen the basic medicine, home care, invest in prevention and research. We need resources to be injected into our health care system today more than ever, and they are needed immediately. We cannot wait for the unsure and too dilated times of the Next generation EU. The difficulties in approving the European Union's multiannual financial framework - we know that - and the extremely complex mechanism for releasing the resources associated with it make it increasingly clear that the ESM funds are the only ones that can be used quickly and immediately. In the most probable scenario, unless unforeseen, negotiations on the multiannual financial framework (MFF) will close in November, but, along the path that will lead us to the presentation of the recovery plan, different could be the hitches also due to the pressures of the countries frugali and of the Countries of Visegrad. We need to arrive at credible proposals as soon as possible to be put on the negotiating table with Europe. That is why it is necessary for the political forces present in Parliament to cooperate. I say this in a clear way: we will not accept to make the simple paperbacks, even more in spite of a government born within the parliamentary mechanisms, supported by an unnatural majority and totally removed from the political orientation of the voters, who have chosen the center-right to the government of 15 regions out of 20. I ask myself, and I ask you, is it still necessary to take a majority vote, by means of decree-laws, when - as you know - a solid majority no longer exists in this Parliament? Just yesterday I asked the Commission to add in the report on the guidelines a sentence inserted and voted on in the report made to the House concerning the need - I quote - for a connection infrastructure on the Messina Strait. This to complete the project of the high speed that you claim to want to realize in Sicily, but that without a bridge between Sicily and Calabria would remain only a propagandistic spot. I would like to say to my colleagues in the majority: let us not make fun of ourselves, how should high-speed and high-capacity trains arrive in Sicily? Swimming? As we already know, there is a project that, properly updated, would be immediately cantierabile; do you not want to do so with the resources that are the responsibility of the funds of the Next generation EU, Minister Amendola? Well, let's use the Development and Cohesion Fund, but let's do it. [[Applause.]] The billions, the money and the resources are there. Unfortunately, the country has a right to know about this. We pay the purely ideological position of the Movimento 5 Stars and the awe of the triggers of a pentastellated PD that, for the sake of armchairs, has set aside its reformist vocation. When I asked the majority how to proceed, given the diversity of the two Chamber and Senate reports on the subject of the bridge over the Strait, I was answered candidly that the Government will decide. Of course, the government will decide, we had no doubt. If these are the premises, we are in danger of losing so much precious time in vain. Obviously all this writing of the reports and the proposals as well as the debate here today for you is merely a formality, a condolence given to Parliament and to the Members of Parliament who, I remind you, are an expression of that popular vote which would certainly not reward your unlikely government coalition today. Personally, therefore, I believe that a lean working group, an ad hoc structure involving oppositions (call it whatever you want), is more necessary today than ever and can contribute more than Parliament to the rapid definition of the projects to be included in the recovery plan to be presented to Europe. As early as 1 January we will be able to present to the Commission our plan for investment and reform, but at this stage everything risks slipping to the last useful date, that of 30 April. In doing so, real aid will arrive at our country not before autumn 2021. The prerequisite for rapid and forward-looking work can therefore only be derived from a clear agreement between responsible political forces. We are prepared to sign this agreement immediately. We hope that President Conte, to quote a well-known film by Bertolucci, does not want to continue dancing alone, shows that he is the President of all, thinks less about the wishes of the majority who support him and start thinking in the big and long term; only then can he say that he has really done a service to the Italians. One last quick reflection, President: we know that the country needs tangible and intangible infrastructure. The investment plan will have to be accompanied by a great period of reform; first and foremost that of public administration, justice and tax. In the guidelines you have presented to us you have simplified and specified that you intend to transfer tax burdens from people to things. I want to say this now and finish: we are not and will not agree with any transfer of taxes or taxes. The tax burden must be reduced and not transferred, there are no other roads for Forza Italia. You can't even imagine increasing taxes on buildings and houses, on the result of citizens' savings. Forza Italia has very clear ideas about this: we are ready to raise the barricades and go down to the square, if necessary, to defend the pockets of the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u93	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the few minutes I have been allowed to say that I did not write great things to myself, but on several occasions I have been listening to the previous reports; reports, comments and remarks which are quite complex and articulate, as the document rightly wants. The guidelines presented will then be part of a much more complex document, which will be submitted to the European Union. Let me give you a trivial example. Let me give you a very trivial example, that of the city council of a town like mine, with 50,000 inhabitants. Apart from the guidelines that are presented at the beginning and represent... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u95	Sorry to interrupt, Senator Faggi. Colleagues, it has been a long morning, the senator is intervening and there is only one more intervention in general discussion. If you kindly manage to have a quiet climate, it is easier to follow the intervention, for me and for colleagues who want to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u96	Please, Senator Faggi, continue. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, apart from the guidelines that are presented, there is a three-year plan of public works which is a budget annex. We must reduce the numbers very much: the budget of a citizen like mine, Lecco, is around EUR 60 million, which is a figure, I dare say, small - let me say - compared to the large numbers we are used to here. However, this three-year plan is accompanied by technical data sheets: they are annexes that refer to projects that the municipal administration wants to carry out during its mandate and, with as many numbers, indicate the financial sources. If changes occur over the years, it is up to the mayor and the Council to present them immediately to the City Council, indicating the different source of funding, or why the work will no longer be done. This happens on the City Council of any town of about 40-60,000 people. Here we have a document that dictates the programmatic line for 567 projects, distributed and articulated very well - no doubt - and that will be the prerequisite to recover 209 billion. As you can see, the difference is considerable. Too bad that, while in a City Council they don't approve of anything and send you home if the budget doesn't present it with a set of attachments that shows exactly what you want to do, we go to Europe with 32 pages without an annex, because those will come later. [[Applause.]] Patience, they'll come later. Another thing I would like to recall here is the following. Suppose this Government and President Conte have such an extraordinary capacity in the next three months that they make those famous cards with the attachments, the projects, the sources of funding and everything that follows on how, where and when. That is fine, because, if they are in the majority, they are better gifted than the minority, so they will succeed: let us suppose that. A series of reforms are indicated: there is talk of reform of justice and health; I have heard that there is talk of an ecological transition, with a whole revolutionary and innovative movement prodromic to an excellent life of excellence, and that it truly favours a new way of living Italy and to be modern and projected towards a system that finally allows us to be like other European states. Too bad we lack two fundamental reforms. The first is that of the public administration. In fact, it is not by inserting new professional figures in the bodies responsible for carrying out a design that resolves the issues. It takes a reform of the public administration and one of the contract code, which is fundamental; I understand that I am repetitive, but everything passes from there, otherwise it will be a funnel. The undersigned has submitted a bill, the Senate Act n. 1805, titled "Moratory in the matter of the code of public contracts. Direct application of the provisions of Directive 2014/24/EU and Communication 2020/C 108 I/01 of the European Commission for Public Procurement of Services and Supplies, which was regularly assigned to the 8th Senate Commission on 26 May 2020, but has never been incardinated and has passed almost six months. If we had approved it, we would have had a reform, because the text was to be filled with content, it was not the Beech Law. But kindly yesterday evening, following our very brief hearing (three were held and yesterday's hearing was important), the following words were given on page 24 of the report: in particular, the regulatory framework of the Procurement Code will have to be revised. In conclusion, having said this here and also to you, Mr President, in your role, and hoping that the President of the 8th Commission will also be present, I hope that the aforementioned draft law will now be incardinated, which will give the possibility to implement a simplification in order to carry out those 567 projects, because everything goes from there. I'm waiting confidently. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u97	She's enlisted to speak Senator Moronese. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u98	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I begin my speech with a quote: the European recovery fund must be used for a recovery that responds to the risks of climate change with renewable energy and other technologies, thus opening the opportunity for the creation of a huge number of jobs. Robots and artificial intelligence cannot modernise buildings and all other infrastructures; they need to be human. For Italy it may be the beginning of a new Renaissance. These are the words of Jeremy Rifkin, taken from an interview published yesterday in a well-known national newspaper. Rifkin, as we all know, is an economist, environmentalist and also a very active writer on issues relating to climate change, technologies and global change and has been a consultant for Europe since the early 2000s. His interview is very interesting not only for the topics addressed, such as the green new deal, but also because you are told about the enormous potential that our country has. Rifkin mentions the great talents that our country has in the field of communications, energy, logistics and transport and also our natural resources: you are Saudi Arabia of the sun and the wind, he says; only the political will is missing: it will come from the young people who understand, he adds. On the point of lack of political will, I believe that we could open up an important debate here, because there are probably some things that are not being taken in the general sense, but that are still taking place. The 110 percent superbonus is a revolution and represents a new way of thinking about work, energy and the environment. It goes exactly in the direction that Rifkin also asks: this is the first time the State has invested in citizens, asking them to use the best technologies to save energy consumption and it does so by rewarding them economically. In this way, we get environmental benefits, retrain our work, bringing it to the highest level, and we also encourage companies to use and create new technologies. Again, I am thinking of the work that was done by the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea on environmentally harmful subsidies (SAD); we had foreseen this work in the last budget law and now that aid will be converted into environmentally favourable subsidies. I stop here with the examples, but I am convinced that since the Movimento 5 Stars arrived to the Government of Italy many things have changed in a favourable way for the environment and this is before everyone's eyes. [[Applause]] To the young people, who are sending us very important messages, I say that they have certainly not been unheard. Here, in this House, two motions on climate change have been adopted. In these days our Commissions have done a huge job to expand and develop the fundamental points for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, using the resources available to Italy for a single, great goal: the protection of our territories and the 60 million citizens who live there. As other colleagues have also reminded us and as we are all asked, one of the three pillars of the government's recovery plan is the ecological transition. It will be necessary, therefore, to graft a new paradigm into the economy of this country, that puts the environment at the center of every choice. The images of these days (bridges swept away as if they were paper-mâché, submerged cities, rivers that overflow) are snapshots that we will not easily erase from our memory. The task of politics - our task, ladies and gentlemen - is to work for the public, for the good of every citizen. The Movimento 5 Stars has worked a lot on the guidelines under discussion today, moving forward the idea that nothing was left to chance, putting the environment at the centre. Let me say that, rather than talking about protection, in this case I would talk about respect for the environment. We have included some general demands, which give an orientation on the objectives to be achieved with the National Recovery and Resilience Plan and also some fundamental criteria for us to choose and evaluate projects. Part of the funds will have to be devoted to the prevention of hydrogeological failure and seismic risk; it is also necessary to aim at zeroing soil consumption. Projects for the circular economy will be fundamental, with incentives for companies to invest in the conversion of their activities or in the design of products that can be more easily reused or recycled. It is also necessary to support research and experimentation, aimed at promoting end of waste processes. It will be essential to stabilize the green bonuses, from those dedicated to sustainable mobility up to the 110% superbonus for the energy efficiency of buildings. We have requested that, within the recovery plan, the National Waste Management Plan be fully incorporated in order to achieve the objectives set out in the European directives, keeping the waste hierarchy firmly in place, limiting, until it is eliminated, the disposal of waste in landfills or incinerators. There is a need to tackle with a systemic approach the problem related to water cycle management, which needs an overall and adequate view of investments and interventions, ensuring the implementation of an adequate system of installations and measures for the treatment of waste and water. Such a plan would have a major impact on employment and development, which would result in a better quality of life for all. It is thought that in Italy there are still territories without purification plants. It will also be crucial to join forces to protect the marine environment and the coastal strip, to preserve and defend natural habitats and to protect biodiversity. It will also be important to direct our agriculture towards the model from the producer to the consumer. Agriculture, too, needs to be able to follow circular models based on regeneration and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. [[Applause]] It is necessary to encourage actions for the sustainability of food production, for the security of supply, to stimulate virtuous practices in the areas of food processing, wholesale and retail trade, hotel and catering services. Correct food consumption must be promoted and the transition to healthy and sustainable food regimes facilitated, as well as waste reduction. As stated yesterday in Taranto by the Minister for Economic Development Stefano Patuanelli, Italy also needs social regeneration plans. It is therefore necessary to combat social marginality, cultural deprivation, school dispersal and juvenile deviance, through material and intangible actions. These themes, which are of a social nature, are reflected on the environment. In fact, where these social problems remain unresolved, the existence of serious environmental problems is always detectable. The aspects are closely related. We have all read about scientific studies or even seen television broadcasts that talk about the relationship between Covid-19 and the environment. Many scholars and scientists tell us that the pandemic is linked not only to the issue of the virus passing from animals to humans, but also to environmental factors and pollution. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan can and must be used to address the problems that policy has not wanted to face in recent years, all too often turning its face on the other side. We are all faced with an immense job to do; we must prepare to make Italy a stronger country, ready to face even new challenges that could come after that of Covid. The time to think about it is now. Mr President, in conclusion, we will not have another planet where we can stay. This is our place and this is our home: we have to take care of it and now. That it is indeed for Italy a new Renaissance I wish for the environment, for our children, for their future and for all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u99	The debate is closed. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger and No 2 by Senators Bernini, Ciriani and Romeo. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur, Senator Stefano.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u100	Mr President, I would like to make a brief reply, which I would like to begin with sincere and non-ritual thanks to the structures of the Senate Offices, first of all the Commissions 14a and 5a, and the Study Office, and then to the whole Government, with particular regard to Minister Amendola, who has always responded with presence and willingness to our requests, participating in various hearings. I say this because I have sincerely found the words somewhat ungenerous, which I justify inserting in the indispensable temptation to continue to maintain a political positioning, and the animus, which, in truth, I found also in the words of Senator Centinario, who recalled us to the theme of agriculture. I am convinced that it has done well, but I would remind him that in the report, thanks also to the demands of the 9th Commission, we have spoken well and clearly about agriculture 4.0, to follow up farm-to-fork projects or, again, to strengthen the National Agricultural Information System (SIAN), which I think is well known. I would also like to respond to my colleague, Mr Quagliariello, who has made an important point and I say this because only for reasons of time in my speech at the beginning of the session I did not have the opportunity to make a passage on the series of gaps that are being added to the southern historical one, that is to say to the stronger pulling between the center and the periphery in the urban contexts or in the central areas of the Apennines and, again, in the territories of Central Italy affected by the earthquakes of 2016 and 2009. They are substantial parts that we put in the report and that I believe have also had support value in the confrontation we had with the oppositions. To those who have told us that we have not indicated solutions for the South I clarify that this was not the occasion for specific projects, having as target the focus of the objectives to be pursued through an analysis of context that remains objective and has been done a good job. That is why we will continue to involve oppositions, moving forward and moving forward in our concrete response initiatives, through that parliamentary involvement which the report, which I hope this House will approve today, indicates as non-negotiable. I would like to thank colleagues, colleagues and President Pesco. Even today's rich debate in this House has confirmed the solidity of the proposed report, which I believe and hope this House will take on board. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u101	I call the rapporteur, Senator Pesco.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u102	Mr President, I would like to join in thanking the senators and senators who have helped us and their contribution to this report. I thank all the staff of the Senate who collaborated in drawing up this document; it was not easy. On the other hand, I would like to remind you of some of the speeches that have been made. Senator Montevecchi asked us to do everything possible to protect the artistic heritage from the aggression of climate change and I really hope that this will be done through the recovery fund projects. Senator Bucarella reminded us of hydrogen. We have said this before and we remember it again: we need to invest to ensure that there is a ready response on research in this area. Senator Fedeli talked about the gender gap. The fight against gender inequalities will be ensured, both in the analysis and in the reporting phase. Senator Tiraboschi talked about the infrastructure of living. In this regard, we talked about urban regeneration. Much can be done for young couples and families to build, if necessary, new houses without consuming new soil, so regeneration will come first of all. Senator Centinario was talking about agriculture 4.0. I would ask my colleague to read our report well, because that is what we are talking about. Senator L'Abbate reminded us of the cost-benefit analysis, but also the life cycle analysis (LCA) to evaluate the projects. We need to do an analysis from the start of the project to the end, as we do, or should do, for each production process. Senator Bruzzone says that you don't make GDP, you don't earn money and you don't make economic recovery with the areas of environmental reserve. I would just like to mention one of the serious environmental crises that is taking place: the one concerning bees. Well, reserve areas allow us to guarantee biodiversity and thus also protect species that we are really at risk of losing. So we don't make GDP, but we protect the environment. [[Applause]] Senator Cangini says there's no goal, but it's not. There is and is based on the following pillars: work, environment, connectivity and modernisation. A goal is achieved through many tools, so logically we could not identify one, because it would have been really little. Many have reminded us of agriculture, both Senator La Pietra and Senator De Bonis. Well, we have talked a lot about sustainable and organic agriculture and the subject is contained in our report. Senator Modena invites us to remember the digital divide. Indeed, if we want a more digital Italy, we cannot help but think about people who have difficulty getting the means to be truly digital and digitized. In conclusion, I thank you all very much for the contribution you have given us. Thank you, thank you, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u103	I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u104	Mr President, I will take a few minutes and apologise if I have to go to the House, where a sitting begins at 4 p.m. and the resolution on a report will also be voted on. I believe that the enormous amount of speeches, suggestions and concrete projects gives a sense of the usefulness of a job, for which I thank President Pesco and President Stefano, who enriches our debate. Some senators, such as De Bonis, Cangini, La Pietra and Nencini, spoke of national interest. In fact, if we draw a moment from the right positions of each of us and each party, we realize that we are describing an investment plan that, together with the 2021-2027 budget, speaks to our country for the next seven years. We are talking, that is, about a curve of confidence for private interests, to modernise our country and to make it even better than we had it in pre-Covid times, which is necessary and represents a national interest that every party must have. I say this because many of these speeches and also some of the suggestions in the motions for resolutions are contained in the report. It is an excellent job, which gives the government mandate to continue to build, involving Parliament in a path that began on 21 July and will continue until the presentation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I'm sorry to say bad news, but there's still no country to introduce it. [[Applause]] Other countries that are mentioned have presented budgetary manoeuvres and we have already done three. The path decided on 21 July is to begin on 15 October with an informal dialogue with the Commission. On Thursday I will personally go to Brussels to start this work among the technical teams and the presentation will take place at the beginning of next year. We all know that we are working and negotiating in the trilogues between the Commission, the Council and Parliament to resolve certain slopes, such as those on the budget for the 2021-2027 budget and on conditionality for the rule of law. But we wanted to involve Parliament from the outset in this process. I know that in Italy we are outnumbered by problems, important news and choices we have to make, but this - for now - is the only Parliament in Europe that has discussed the approach of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I believe that this is good work, which also strengthens the Government in negotiating with the European Commission on the choices we will have to make together. All the ideas that have been presented have a great strength. Senator Collina and Senators Stefani and Bergonzoni spoke about the opportunity to involve the Regions: this is what we have been doing since July and, not by chance, we have chosen the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs (CIAE), because it is an institutional committee in which the president of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces Bonaccini sit, together with President Thesei, and the President of the National Association of Italian Municipalities (ANCI); this Plan must mobilize all institutional levels (from the Government, the Parliament, the Regions, the Municipalities). The work that is being done with the Cabina di regia of the Regions and with the Municipalities is precisely this: trying to find, within the European and Italian guidelines, concrete guidelines. We must work on two levels - I say this to Parliament - because on 21 July we made an agreement for a seven-year budget, which is very important and it is not true that it lowers resources. As Italy, for the first time in our history, we will find ourselves at final, a net taxpayer country, but beneficiary of resources on agriculture, defence, border management and all the projects that concern the budget, together with this 750 billion fund that we wanted and built after a long political battle. This is the work we will be doing in the coming weeks and months and I believe that involving us all is not an invitation to good feelings, but a necessity for those who believe in the national interest and want to change this country in a greener, fairer and even faster way. The allocation of funds must have clear criteria, which are those of the discussions you have had on the report, but also on the impact of growth. We need to build a Plan that has growth as the horizon, understood in the fundamental values of this country: an impact on gender equity, as Senator Bonino and Senator Fedeli have said; an impact on inequalities, reading all European statistics and rankings in which Italy, from kindergartens to female employment, to school dispersal, is still an unfair country. If this work, which is planning, on the basis of interests that are national, will be done - together - by the Parliament, the Government, the Regions, the Municipalities and the social actors, then it will not be the victory of a government or a majority, but it will be the idea of a country that we all have to share. And it will also be a necessary step forward on governance, because - let us not hide it - we all know (and last but not least, a local administrator) that the construction of planning must have strengths from the point of view of the tools to be used. Commitment to 23 and spending at 26 are a goal of the country and we, as a country, in terms of decision, must also develop a system. This is also a monitoring system - some senators said - and I think it is very right, because in the coming years monitoring must also be a heritage of transparency, good spending, quality and efficiency of our work. I shall end by expressing my support for the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Faraone and Unterberger, which incorporates the guidelines for the definition of the National Plan and, as announced, an opinion contrary to the motion for a resolution No 2 signed by Senators Bernini, Ciriani and Romeo. I have to say that many of the stresses in the commitments are also in the work done by the Commissions. It is not a vote of opposition, because, according to the work of the Commissions and the two presidents, Pesco and Stefano, today we have built a path that binds Government and Parliament, with the commitment of the Government to give account of all the institutional passages that will take place from here to the next weeks and months with Brussels, until the arrival, which will be common to all European parliaments and governments, with the official presentation of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience. I believe that this is a commitment, not a formal one, that we take. I know someone may have bet against it, but that's the past. The confidence that came back on 21 July is not someone's instrument against someone else, in this House as it is in the streets. It is our commitment, for what we have suffered and experienced, to build a country that is greener, faster and more just in its fundamental structures. So, after this beautiful day, these speeches and those that will follow in the Chamber of Deputies at 4 p.m., all of us, as Senator Nencini said, commit each other to involving us, not on resolutions, but on the design of a better Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u105	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u108	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I should like to begin with a few methodological considerations. I agree with what Mr Gualtieri said about the considerations of departure. No to projects that produce fragmentation, that are unable to generate economies of scale, that are difficult to monitor and evaluate and that already in the past have shown serious critical design. I also welcome the fact that the path taken by the European Union (the guidelines, the outline plan and the final plan) is being submitted to Parliament from time to time. I am a little less convinced that the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces should only be involved in the implementation phase of the projects. Although the Minister has now said that involvement is a strong will of the Government, greater involvement is not only desirable in matters where local authorities have direct or concurrent competence with the Central State, but for all projects whose effectiveness is closely linked to the work of the nearest body. Local autonomy, therefore, must have a significant voice also in the design phase of the entire plant, because only in this way an effective path is built; all this also with bilateral interlocations between individual Regions, Government and Ministries, as the Province of Bolzano has also urged in the plan that it has sent to the Government with the planning proposals for our territory; all this, also to generate a complementarity with the resources of programming 2021-2027, thus avoiding duplication, overlaps or, worse still, waste of resources. Having said that, to write a plan that looks at the next 20 years, we need to understand what has happened in the last 20 years. The main reason for low Italian growth is the stagnation of productivity, which here has grown by 3%, compared to 25 in Germany or 30-32 in the United States. Productivity remained low because Italy did not make full use of the IT revolution. To give an idea, in agriculture only 4% of companies have been able to benefit from technological change. At the same time, there is not a single Italian company among the great world players in the sector, when, in the meantime, Chinese companies and others, with state subsidies, try to create a real monopoly of supply of new generation networks. The Plan's guidelines adequately address this challenge. In the final plan, however, we must also give proper attention to the small ones; that is, we must prevent this process from investing only the larger companies, the more modern ones, and the better public administrations. We need to think about the small business owner, the disadvantaged territories or the family business, which is not always prone to change; therefore broadband for rural areas, connection to the network for agricultural enterprises and a specific plan for digital development in mountain areas. Unfortunately, the word mountain lacks in its policy lines, objectives and challenges and is only found indirectly when it comes to environmental protection. Yet, in the mountains we play a fundamental game, that of safeguarding biodiversity. In the mountains there are the best examples of environmentally sustainable enterprises; in the mountains the fight against hydrogeological failure means the fight against depopulation, because less people means even less care of the woods, fields and land and more stress and more problems for metropolitan centres and urban areas. To return to the policy lines, the commitment to the first two long-term objectives is welcomed: doubling growth, with the minimum objective of bringing it at least in line with the European one of 1.6% of the last decade, and achieving an increase in the employment rate by at least 10 points. These two objectives suggest the priority reforms that will have to accompany the plan, according to the path outlined by the Government; they are of course the reform of the tax and that of the job. The question of taxation, as I have already said in this House, is not so much about the model as about its clarity: to know what is paid and why, perhaps also knowing that everyone pays, because tax evasion, already unbearable before the crisis, now takes on the clothes of a real abuse. On this point we must not be afraid: those who are in difficulty must have the hand of a new social pact, that of a new beginning, in which, on the one hand, we offer a path of sustainable return, but, on the other, we do not give up protecting those who, on the other hand, pay taxes all of them and always. This is a form of respect for citizens who, while being able to suspend their payments, have not done so in order not to put the state's coffers in difficulty. On the job, the first point is to put hand to the Dignity Decree and re-introduce vouchers or other tools for greater flexibility on the recruitment front, as well as need a deep rethinking of citizenship income as an active policy for work, which has completely failed in this objective. I say this to the friends of the majority: it is not the time to defend old flags, but to imagine new roads. I also say this to the friends who represent the business world: opposing support for businesses and workers makes no sense, because the integration fund, for example, boosts demand and therefore supports the same companies. Before concluding, Mr President, I would like to make two final reflections on the long-term objectives. Ecological conversion is at the heart of the European project and the figure on which success will be measured in individual countries. Those who spend their resources properly will have a more modern and competitive production system. If a country does not do so or does it harm, its business system will pay a very high price in terms of competitiveness. The higher part will be paid by the new generations, because you will not be able to bring back the debt that is now created. This is why priority must be given to me, which is called renewable sources and hydrogen, in order to exploit the potential of the mountain, but above all to heal the environmental wounds of the great industry, which today has to change its forms of energy supply. The second reflection concerns the fact that I would have liked to read, among the priorities, the commitment to unlocking the social elevator. This notion has disappeared from the public debate of the country, but it is fundamental for any society that sets itself the goal of social and economic growth: the idea that with my commitment and my skill I can have better living conditions than my parents. Too bad there isn't; it seems to me a big limit. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats welcomes these policy lines. As we have said, our hope is that local self-government will be more involved in the construction of the draft plan and the final plan, but also that the gaps I have expressed so far will be filled. However, we recognize the Government's efforts, the goodness of the Commission's discussions and an overall framework of objectives, missions and interventions, which we agree with. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u109	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u111	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, today we begin in the Senate an important path of confrontation for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, starting from the guidelines, awaiting the European Regulation and in view of the coming April deadline, because we are aware of the importance of the match for our country and for the whole of Europe. Without a doubt, the agreement reached at the July European Council on Next generation EU and recovery fund represents a milestone in the process of European integration, with the sharing of a debt, finally common and European, of 750 billion out of a total of resources of more than 1,074 billion. It is an opportunity for Italy to overcome the serious crisis generated by the pandemic, but also to face the many nodes that in the past have curbed the processes of innovation and reform and thus accelerate the modernization, support the growth potential and thus create the conditions for a real structural transformation of the country. With EUR 208 billion, no doubt, Italy is one of the biggest beneficiaries of Next Generation EU funds and it is precisely on their use that we are playing our credibility to overcome the infrastructural and employment gaps of population growth, but also of education and training compared to the European average. It is a crisis that risks being paid in particular by young people and women - as has been mentioned - to whom we must therefore pay particular attention, because the rebirth of the country must go precisely from women's work and youth employment. We therefore agree with the approach of the guidelines and the challenges set out in the Plan as part of the six missions in which the document is based. We are moving towards the green transition and the climate neutrality of the green new deal by 2050, to which at least 37% of the resources are allocated; 20% are going to the digital transition; then there is territorial and social cohesion, but also addressing the structural reforms indicated in the European Semester: reform of civil and criminal justice towards shorter processes. Then there is public administration reform to make it more efficient and accessible; tax reform to make it simpler, fairer and more transparent; labour reform, but also education and skills development of the next generation to which we are leaving an important debt. We believe that these reforms are necessary in order to convert the public system and to achieve the objective of doubling the average rate of growth of the national economy, which means more public investment, but also stimulating private investment. We aim - for example - to support the technological transition of companies, strengthening Enterprise 4.0, launched by our Government already last legislature, towards lasting and structural development and growth and therefore able to guarantee the future financial sustainability of public debt; sustainability only postponed with the suspension of the rules of the Stability Pact. In this context, the resources of the National Plan must be considered, Minister, additional and complementary, and not substitute for the ordinary resources of the State: I am thinking - for example - of the 80 billion of cohesion. It is a great opportunity - as has been said - that we cannot waste. Then there are three tasks that await us: defining the strategic horizon; identifying the measures and projects to be sung with coherent, measurable and measurable objectives at every stage, but also efficient management organisation, in order to ensure that the time of commitment of expenditure between 2023 and 2026; sharing of the Plan especially with those actuators called in co-responsibility of expenditure, between Regions and Municipalities. It is not a simple and non-trivial operation for a country like ours which has always been in difficulty on the full use of European resources and, in particular, the Structural Funds. That is why we share the need to set up a specific task force for the governance of the Plan, which also serves as a direction and guarantee, with more streamlined management procedures. However - this is important to us - we must now seize the opportunity of the crisis as a push for the necessary change, in order to make the ordinary activity of public administration and the entire country system more efficient. In other words, we must have the courage to act with reforms precisely on those bottlenecks that have condemned the Italian economy to a succession of stages of stagnation over the last twenty years. Therefore, it is not enough to pull out projects from the drawers - we agree - but be careful not to exclude from the Plan those investments that, although dated over time, maintain feasibility and are still to be considered strategic, in order to recover the gaps of infrastructural and territorial development. I am thinking of the bridge over the Strait of Messina, but also of the many high-speed railway projects, in particular for the revival of the South, from which the relaunch of the entire country necessarily passes. But above all, let us not forget the cities and their suburbs: we could call it the aesthetics of green transformation or new Renaissance. For example, let's resume the reminder plan, which we have proposed since 2015. Making our suburbs more beautiful, more inclusive and safer means upgrading public and private buildings, from popular homes to hospitals; making them more energy efficient, greener and more livable, from the point of view of urban mobility, more alive and productive and capable of creating jobs, but also education, with more beautiful and safer schools. It is therefore necessary to rethink the places of life, from the cultural landscape of our immense historical-architectonic heritage, to the natural and urban landscape, but above all it is necessary to put in safety against the hydrogeological risk, as evidenced by the devastations of last week, and for this reason we felt urgent to ask for the restoration of the unity of mission Italy safe. It is also necessary to clean up polluted sites and abandoned areas and to maintain the many bridges and viaducts still under observation today. Not least, but first of all, there is health: territorial health for health protection, but also as a safeguard for development, as we have well understood by the effects of the pandemic and the resulting lockdown. For this reason, and in parallel, we cannot afford not to activate the EUR 36 billion, available immediately with the ESM, all the more so now that we have asked to extend the state of emergency until January. They are funds available immediately and at rates close to zero. So we face an unprecedented challenge, with the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, to talk to the future and make the Italy system competitive and attractive, with resources that we are borrowing only from our children. To conclude, the exceptional nature of the pandemic has undoubtedly increased the awareness that the European Union must rely more on its own internal engine of growth. This was why a Europeanist government was needed, convinced that the country's interest is also being played in Europe and not against Europe. Mr President, transition means transition and someone has urged us not only to go through change. It is time to design it and the National Plan for the Commitment of Next Generation EU Resources can be its tool. We will help the Government and, for this reason, I declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour of the motion for a majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u112	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u113	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u114	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, I have seen - and much to be appreciated - that the Deputy Minister took notes on his smartphone as Senator Nadia Ginetti spoke. This is very nice. Evidently the notes he took will serve. Maybe he wants to do the same while I speak; do as he pleases, but he can also listen to me and the notes will have them from the official Senate text. Let's start the complex process of Next generation EU and recovery fund. Unfortunately, the truth operation begins. We have heard a bit about everything in this period; now the actual phase begins, we start from the moment zero with the guidelines, then the plans will arrive, but it is the moment when all the fantasies and the chatter made fade away, and it is time to do an operation truth. The famous movie with Alberto Sordi comes to mind, "An American in Rome": "You are now twenty-one years old, it is time for you to know whose son you are." Someone has to tell you the truth. Let's try it ourselves. We have heard that 209 billion would have come because in Europe someone loves us and, because of the great consideration they have of our Government in Europe, more money would have come to Italy than to the rest of Europe. Now, whoever took the trouble to read the documents will surely know that the resources were allocated on the basis of objective criteria: GDP per capita compared to the average GDP of the European Union; average unemployment over the last five years - from 2020 to 2022 - and then, from 2023, per capita income and projected decline in GDP. Italy excels in these three parameters: GDP per capita lower than the European average, because, if this House has escaped, the rich Italy, from the European budget, has an average of GDP per capita lower than the European average, a great boast that can be made. According to great pride it is a rate of unemployment in the last five years higher than the European average, because for years we have been behind the European trend. Thirdly, the projected fall in GDP for Italy is greater than for other countries. Result: we take more than the others. And there was someone bragging. Part of it is the logic of citizenship income: people who brag about taking state assistance money while some idiot, on the other hand, works. So, let's say that there was not much to boast about being among the dumbest in Europe and, therefore, to take more resources, thanks to the policies of the last ten years of the PD. If someone takes the trouble to read European documents instead of always saying imaginative things, he will find that recently the ECB has published a document in which it relates the aid lost in relation to the GDP of individual states, and Italy is the ninth country. We are not first, we are ninth, and this would have been the most important criterion because, as the laws of financing in Italy work, the contribution to lost money relates to turnover, and so the GDP of a nation, and we are not the first of the class, but we are the ninth. The second truth operation: the flood of money that was to come from the European Union. A few government friendly newspapers published on the front page: Prime Minister Count submerged banknotes. Is that so? Here again, the EU budget is 1,000 billion for the next seven years. With those 1,000 billion, Italy tended to end up at less than 30 billion between what it gives and what it receives. With the resources put in place to deal with the crisis, instead, that is, 750 billion total, to Italy they go in theory more than 200, of which 128, however, are loaned. These are resources that we would have taken on the markets anyway and therefore the advantage is not 128 billion, but the difference between the interest rate that we would pay on the markets and the money that we take instead, a calculation that is difficult to do. On the other hand, we have 81 billion grants; we would have finished the seven-year period with less than 30 billion and, therefore, we have more than 50 billion from the European Union. This is important, but this is the order of magnitude; 81 billion grants over four years, from 2020 to 2023, account for about 2% of Italian expenditure over the four years. It's a help, but that's the order of magnitude. They told us that the resources would arrive immediately and we know that they will not arrive before June 2021. This is the painting. We then have government guidelines. These lines are general: let's not argue about them and we said that we are zero year. However, we asked for four fundamental priorities to be included in the guidelines: the post-earthquake reconstruction and the contrast to the hydrogeological failure, which was not included in the priority measures of this Government and we regret it, although thanks to the Brothers of Italy these voices at least appear in the document. We have also asked for security to be included, because anyone dealing with the labour market and production knows that no one invests in an unsafe environment. Spending European resources to increase the security in which our economic operators operate is an advantage for GDP; with those resources you can also finally make the prison plan that has not always been implemented in Italy for lack of resources. We regret that this too was not included in the measures, although it was accepted into the body of the text. There is also support for the birth rate; this term is mentioned only once throughout the text very quickly, when we know that it is one of Italy's major economic problems. We then asked to devote those resources to an industrial policy finally converting everything that is not identifiable as an Italy brand into what is identifiable as such. We cannot believe in thirty years of being competitive in steel production - to give an example among many - because there will be no one willing to pay for Italian steel more than Indian or Chinese steel. In the world, however, many realities are willing to pay more a product branded in Italy because it is part of the shipbuilding of the car, of the avant-garde industries; we had proposed, therefore, to use this process for a gradual conversion of our productive fabric. We regret that this too has not been accepted. Since we are trying to do a real operation, we must tell ourselves that unfortunately the Government has demonstrated all its inability in recent months. It is not an opinion and I quote only data. In the ten decrees issued in the period of emergency Covid, there are 181 implementing decrees. There are 14 implementing decrees out of 34; 94 out of 137 of the decree are missing; 8 out of 8 are missing of the decree liquidity, having been issued zero; 20 out of 20 of the decree simplifications are missing, because even in this case they have been issued zero; in the Note of update to the Document of economy and finance, just published, there is a lower debt of 13 billion not for some virtuosity, but for lack of draw of the measures put in field by the Government and, therefore, further failure. We are therefore genuinely concerned about how the Government will manage the resources available. We think that the most useful thing the government can do for the good of the nation is to leave the field to someone who might be more capable and, above all, give the voice back to the Italians so that they can decide which Government and with what political and economic vision to restart the nation after the serious crisis in which we live. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u115	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u116	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u117	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the two rapporteurs, as well as the colleagues who have worked on this report, who certainly - I believe the Government will be able to recognise this - represent a real enrichment of the guidelines proposed by the Commission. I would just like to make a few methodological considerations, which seem important to me. There is no doubt that today's is a great opportunity, a historic and perhaps unrepeatable occasion. I know that, in particular, colleagues in the League continue to have doubts - to put it mildly - about the real substance of the European turning point, but there is no doubt that this turning point is in fact, and I believe that it is a result of the Government and the initiative of Italy. It is now up to us and, from this point of view, I would like to make a few comments. I believe that the quality of the challenge before us is clear to everyone; a challenge and a very difficult commitment. In question are the structural data of a country that has basically not grown for more than twenty-five years. So even throwing us the ball doesn't work for each other: they have ruled several majorities and, however, in the last twenty or twenty-five years the country has not grown. This means that serious and profound structural problems concern the country's economic and social structure. In this structure there are choices to make: in question there are rents of position rooted even in the balances of redistribution of income and wealth; there are opportunistic attitudes of significant part of the subjects who are or should be protagonists of a change. Then I feel like saying something. The first challenge is cultural and, from this point of view, we are not really there yet. We are the country of everything changes and nothing changes. This is the real challenge for the majority, the opposition and the ruling class of the country. Colleagues, if, like me, you are dissatisfied with the level of the debate in Italy and the turning point that we must practice, we should begin to say so. It is the challenge of a ruling class that tries to respond in a classic way to the changes we face: this is not good. It is the challenge of a policy that is often too weak compared to the powerful powers and components of society. I'd like us to think about that. The only way to start a process of change is to define a strategic vision of a country looking for a new social and economic model; no less than this is the commitment that we face. I would therefore like us not to be aware in a few months or years that, after so many words, we are faced with a simple redistribution of resources by rain: it would be a real defeat. Then there are some preconditions: the first problem concerns public administration. In a few months' time, when concrete progress on the projects may have to be made, none of us will be surprised if we are stopped. If you want a demonstration, just look at the programming cycle of the national structural funds - I am thinking of the national operational programme - regional - such as the European Social Fund - and so on, and not only of the last seven years, but also of the previous one. There is a structural problem: either we assume extraordinary competences (skills, not consulting), technicians able to manage yards, to manage the great challenge of digitalization of the country, able to respond to a political strategy that must have the Government and the Parliament and not others, or we will make few steps forward. I expect this awareness to be translated into the budget into a strategic choice of assuming these powers immediately, to be allocated to the central administration and decentralised administrations (regions and municipalities) to work together. The second point concerns governance. Woe to centralization situations. We need competences, but also governance for Regions, Municipalities and Central State: we define what is done and who does not have to be replaced clearly, decided a priori, because it is on this ground that the challenge is played. Finally, although I would have had other things to say, the third big issue is the need for transversality, which I am giving some examples of. The environment is not simply a policy, but a strategic choice that cuts across all policies; gender policies are not a policy, they cut across all policies; policies for the new generations cut across all policies. The ability not to reason for watertight compartments is decisive; it is not a question of putting an extra word or an extra chapter. As far as industrial policies are concerned, without ecological transition, without green transition, I do not understand what industrial policies we can do. This is the leap in quality, and on this we must move from words to deeds. I expect that in the next phase of the projects there will be the sign of this radical innovation; otherwise, when we go to talk to the associations that will ask us (and not rarely ask us) the same things, we must challenge them forward, not chase the positions that they propose us. I also say this to the opposition, because the challenge is not consent now, but trying to really change this country now. Otherwise we would make a very mediocre and petty choice [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u118	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u120	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, my colleagues and my colleagues have already expressed - and I renew - the favourable position of the Democratic Party Group and the appreciation for the impressive work done by the Commissions and the House, in particular by the European Union's budget and policy committees, which are excellently led by Presidents Pesco and Stefano. Now it is essential not to lose the fundamental orientation because - as has been recalled by all - the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience is the most unmissable opportunity for Italy to reform itself, to modernise its public administration, to give itself systems of evaluation and control of projects, to equip itself with resources of quality and excellence; for this to happen, some factors are essential. The first factor is time. While we are debating here, there are those who are slowing down the achievement of the agreement in Brussels. You know that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan is linked to the multi-year budget and there are countries (in particular Hungary and Poland, but also the frugal countries) that are boycotting the agreement. There is also time to be used internally: the Government has worked very well together with Parliament, but we can do even better by giving us a precise timetable for choosing projects, in cooperation and in line with Parliament's lines. The second is the concentration factor. It means maintaining a unitary inspiration and not falling into the mistake that has already been used in the past in the use of the Structural Funds: mainly rainy managed funds. This error must not be repeated. The third factor is the innovation of interventions. It was said and written a lot in the report. For us innovation is basic scientific research. We think of EUR 20 billion in ten years for basic scientific research, which is the premise of any reform and innovation that we want to do. Innovativeness means a great strategic plan of infrastructure, which concerns the immateriality and materiality, the Tyrrhenian and Adriatic dorsal, the axis of joining between Tyrrhenian and Ionian; it also concerns the mobilization of Italian private wealth. Then there is the digitisation of the fiscal and financial apparatus and the tax system of our country and the interoperability of databases, to achieve a real tax reform and a tough fight against evasion. I add - without prioritising, of course, because this would be the first - on the environment, on the green deal, on culture, on tourism, on cultural heritage, we need a country project that looks at young people, at gender equality and at the cohesion of the Italian territory. Finally, the recovery fund is an opportunity to change Europe. It seems a bit ridiculous and caricature that Senator Salvini today says that, thanks to the sovereigns, European politics is changing. The sovereignists wanted to strangle in the cradle the Resilience Plan, other than changing European policies! ( [[Applause]] ). We, on the other hand, want to change European policies and, in particular, we want to change those which have been inspired by austerity without any reasonableness. The European Commission's suspension of the Stability Pact is a good thing, but it must be clear that this suspension cannot be lifted when the pandemic is over. Let us say this right now: the suspension means a revision of the Stability Pact for us in the direction of sustainable development and growth. ( [[Applause).]] The recovery also in its financing mechanism, which is based on the issue of credit securities, can finally become a structural instrument of the European Union to provide it with a self-sufficiency and tax capacity that has always been denied to the euro area and the European currency. From this point of view too, let us not waste this opportunity, which can really be the turning point for our country and Europe. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u121	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u123	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let us also thank Presidents Stefano and Pesco and colleagues from the Commissions 5a and 14a for the work they have done to sum up the many issues, which are also additional to the first lines put forward by the Government, with an intense but serene debate on the content. The epochal challenge facing us is to intervene in changing the structure of the socio-economic fabric of Italy and Europe in relation to the current framework, due to the violent emergency of the pandemic, and that in this case leads us to discuss the Recovery and Resilience Plan, which has an amount of 205 billion in the form, in part, of grants of 63 billion and, for the rest, of loans and loans. To these we must add what will be the multiannual financial framework, which, with co-financing, will be about 75 billion. We must also add the recovery related to the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, which has not been committed and fortunately - unfortunately luck in this case follows a negative event - is still recognized as binding by our country. We are on values that go beyond 300 billion, which I put together because the European Union rightly imposes the constraint of non-overlapping on all of this. Ban the game of the three cards: financed on the one hand, then, if I didn't fund it on the one hand I add it on the other. This is a position of clarity and clarity that we can only share. I would like to remind you that the part of the funding - the data we have also had from the hearings on the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document - will allow us to recover 0.3 against the average rates of financing of our public debt, which roughly amount to between 7 and 8 billion, which is not irrelevant to our budget. How will they be engaged? The theme is how they will be engaged. We are at a stage that we could call preprogrammatic, not yet programmatic, because it involves an evaluation, a knowledge of the guidelines and the direction of the European Union. Afterwards we should have the real program, the real plan, also following the document of economy and finance that at the bottom is the position, the line of the Government with respect to the action of development of the country. We, as opposition and as Forza Italia Group, bring our contribution, our ideas and we are ready to discuss. We hope, as we unfortunately hope, in a willingness of the Government not to accept the thesis that can also be opposed to those that the Executive and the majority express, but at least to confront on these thesis, because the serious question is: what can we do, what can we do, not what we want to do. [[Applause]] The list of indications, in fact, showed what we want to do or what we want to do, but then reality must lead us to what we can do, what we can do and when we can do it. Then we must also consider how much it costs us because we have a repayment plan that includes six, seven billion to be reimbursed every year from now on, in order to be able to compensate, even if in the initial phase the country receives more than it gives and is no longer a net contributor. We share the European Union's broad guidelines on technology, efficiency, transport and digital mobility and, in general, technological and productive development. Of course, having technological and productive development means making a qualitative leap on the level of culture and education because the first step to be taken is culture, school. Only by climbing that step can we overcome the challenge of having a more modern country, with a more modern public administration, with state-of-the-art infrastructure and with a private economy and a more modern production side by side. When I talk about production, I mean it in the broadest sense, not just the production of industrial goods. It is therefore a question of defining, at this stage and at the next stage, the real objectives, the list of projects. We must achieve the objective of growth, the objective of social inclusion and the cantierability of projects, as the European Union demands, not press releases. This is the problem that we must start to ask ourselves, because too often - alas - we reason on the press releases and on the certain times of what we want to do, that is on the definition of the times of the works. Our country, colleagues, has had and has objective difficulties both in the political decision and in the path of implementation and administrative decision. I invite you only to do one thing: in the queue of the DEF, the document of economy and finance, and the Note of update, there is Annex 1. I call on Members to browse through this annex to see the many works financed seven, eight or ten years ago, which have not yet started, works which, moreover, cannot be financed with the recovery fund in accordance with the rules laid down by the European Union. In the report by Presidents Pesco and Stefano, it is said that out of 63 billion cohesion policy funds for the period 2014-2020, 7 and a half billion were committed by 30 June 2020, so 55 will remain to be committed. This demonstrates the inability of our political and administrative system to react. [[Applause]] And then it is spontaneous to ask, with a mechanism of two years plus four in the second phase, as this country can, that it is not able to intervene with the ordinary structural funds in a six-year period, to make an economic and social revolution operation of a dimension that is six or seven times as much. It is therefore necessary that we put another question to ourselves. Unfortunately, we are led to contribute with our sensibilities and the sensitivity of public works is always far greater than the most comprehensive design. But, gentlemen, we have a more modern country if we have modern infrastructure, a high level of education and culture and a modern private economic production system. [[Applause]] I therefore invite the Government to make an assessment of the mechanisms of the replacement powers of the Regions with respect to the defaulting Municipalities and the State with respect to the defaulting Regions, with a special statute or not. [[Applause]] The challenge is in fact national: if my Region is not able to spend, it loses not only Piedmont, but Italy. It is therefore necessary to have the courage to make these choices too: time is an dependent variable and not an independent one. Therefore, I believe that if a collective identification has been found on the list, the government must express itself with the priorities. We will express ourselves with our own, also expressing an opinion on what the governance model should be. Furthermore, I must say that the report has been supplemented by the request that Parliament vote on the programme and that there is not only a communication to the Chambers. It is clear that we have presented our conclusions in the motion for a resolution which, together with the other opposition representatives, we shall vote on. Instead, we will abstain on the motion for a majority resolution because, with different nuances and sensibilities, we are starting from the common need to improve this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u124	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u126	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have told the government something since the beginning of the pandemic. The phrase is by Mario Draghi: "Whatever it takes" (all you need). This has always been the spirit with which we approach each time the Government asks us questions concerning the post -Covid, that is, the economic crisis that has resulted from it, which, in itself, does not mean to adhere in an uncritical way and without any ability to judge the choices of the opposition. If that were the case, in fact, it would mean something else. Beyond the good work done also in the Commission, there is always the impression that the Government, rather than seeking the cooperation of the opposition, seeks its complicity to arrive at a larger parachute tomorrow: when the objectives set will not succeed, if we have all made the same choices, there will be no one who will complain. This is not a way in which we can deal with and overcome this pandemic crisis and, above all, the resulting serious economic crisis. We had said from the first moment that we would be willing to make any sacrifices to raise our country, but we express a concern and it is certainly not the one about recovery fund and PNRR. Our country needs a National Recovery and Resilience Plan; we need the recovery fund from the European Union and we are also pleased to see that, on the part of the European Union, there is a new sensitivity that is far from the descriptions that Senator Pittella made before, to which I remember that we do not need that Europe that gave us lessons in 2012, requiring us to make so-called reforms that, after a few years, we have known in all their unfortunate form or deformity. [[Applause]] We need to trust ourselves and be credible at European level. We need a Europe that looks at Italy not as a spender, but as a serious country that is seriously demonstrating how things must be done. [[Applause]] Of this, however, it is necessary that the Government becomes a serious interpreter and not that it asks the opposition to speed up the time periods when it arrives at the last moment to convert a decree-law. This isn't serious. You can't see the collaboration there. We have given it to the Commission in these hours. I am very pleased with the demands we have made, one on all that is Parliament, seriously and definitely, to have the last word on the National Plan of Resilience and Recovery. I still remind Senator Pittella that what we are approving here is not the Plan. Colleagues, we are not approving the Plan; we are approving the guidelines of the Plan. Attention, because, once again, the outside is sent a message of an immediate result that is far from reality. These are the guidelines that are given in relation to the Plan, which still needs to be drawn up. These are the guidelines, which will then lead to the choice of projects, of which we naturally ask to be informed and able to intervene in Parliament, because they are clearly measures that serve to raise our country. However, we need those resources that will only come in the spring of 2021. However, we are concerned. Therefore, ours is not an adherence to the guidelines without criticism. I anticipate from now on that ours is and will be an abstention waiting to see what the real Plan will be. We are concerned, not reassured, by your way of conducting this matter, because it is clear that there are too many asynchronousities within the majority and it is clear that these are not solved by giving exhaustive answers, but by putting everything together, until we get to insert so much into these guidelines that we run the risk of getting to the so-called irrelevance of equality. Inside there is so much of everything that, in the end, everything is the same as the other and there are not even serious priorities. Mr President, we are not reassured, because there are inconsistencies that the majority still do not resolve. We are talking about infrastructure: thank God, you have finally realized that you have to put serious hand to the problems concerning the reconstruction of the after earthquake and the hydrogeological failure. But how hard it is for you to insert words like specific infrastructure, like TAV rather than bridge over the Strait! Until you arrive at this wording which you have included in the guidelines, which I read in the knowledge of the whole House and which I do not know how to define if not Byzantine, Baroque. The Government is committed to prioritising the adoption of the best existing technologies to promote stable connections in the South of the country, as well as between the continental and the island parts, in order to guarantee an effective regime of territorial continuity with territories representing the natural intermodal platforms of the coastal arches of the Mediterranean. All this formulation in order not to have the courage to say bridge On the Strait of Messina! [[Applause]] But if you do not have the ability to deal seriously with a situation like this among you, a majority in government, what confidence can we have in relation to the fact that what you include in this Plan then finds a serious will to implement by the Government? They are guidelines, we have said so, and we have reiterated it, but there needs to be a clear idea of what infrastructure means. What is the government's idea of the Gronda di Genova? What's the idea about Pedemontana? What's the idea on the TAV? What is the government's idea of reforming justice? About the procurement code? Here you continue to make the same mistake: to insert the will to derogate from the individual projects that will be presented on the National Plan of Resilience and Recovery, but not to put hand to those rules that cripple the entire country. Once again, you go and select and it's wrong. On the other hand, this is an opportunity to review the whole regulatory system that does not make us work. We need to be aware, Mr President, that this is the time to put our hands on the rules. It is obvious, however, that in the majority there is no conviction in dealing with the rules of the system, because one never knows how it can end up in the different visions that characterize this group of government. To constantly insert derogations, once again, produces a fragmentary idea of vision. There is no need to intervene, with simplification and revision changes, on the bottle packages of the system itself. They're bottlenecks, not just infrastructure. They are bottlenecks, whether we talk about the procurement code, rather than the rules of trade, industry or agriculture. These are things on which, for too long, we have heard words without finding a solution: on the same rules of the environment, on the rules of energy. And you don't want to take this opportunity to see them again. We are concerned about your model of recovery, which is not understood and which continues to be terribly indefinite, so as not to bump into precisely the distrusts and ideological differences that characterize the majority, up to the paradox that I said before, that is to put everything in, but in the end not to identify anything. Mr President, we need this Plan. We need the Italians to be given certainties in the timing and effectiveness of the resources that are being spent. As soon as these resources are available, but the rules that have crippled us so far have not been changed, it is already written in the book of history that there will be no result. I also remember one thing: it passed the month of March, April, May, June, July, August and we arrived in October. When there is an emergency - and you have stated that there is an emergency - it is immediately rescued; if the rescue arrives late, the damage inevitably remains. [[Applause]] And, once again, these are guidelines, they are not the plans of the Plan. And, once again, the actions we have told you and that we are willing to support for months are not coming. This concerns us: not the Plan you have to build, but the times in which you are unable to face the problems and give the answers to the country. Mr President, there is a time for everything, as it is written. This is not the time of triumphal announcements; it is the time of commitment. This is not the time to say what we would like to do; it is the time to do the things that are needed. This is not, Minister, the time of the unreal; it is the time of the real. It is not the time of anti-politics; it is the time of political choices. It is not the time of words; it is the time of deeds. And last - let me tell you - there is no more time. They are guidelines, they are not yet the plans and the plan; we cannot waste any more time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u127	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u128	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u129	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the last speech by Mr Candiani, from whom I think there have been some contradictions. It is true that we are still talking about guidelines, but on the one hand he talks about guidelines and on the other hand he reads a passage with an invitation addressed to those who have built this document with commitment and in collaboration with all the parties. I say this with great pride: we have worked well, even with opposition groups. On the one hand he says that these are general lines and, on the other hand, he calls for inclusion in the report of punctual works. If these are general guidelines, then we are talking in general about infrastructures that serve to ensure that our Italy, our country can become the center of a connection between the Mediterranean and the rest of Europe. There is no need to indicate punctually whether it is a bridge or teleportation to the Trek Star; it doesn't matter. I would like to begin my speech as other Members have done, because it is important to give credit to those who, like our rapporteurs, namely the two Presidents of Commissions 5a and 14a, have conducted this brief but intense work. It was short, but very intense, because on the one hand one cannot ask for prompt answers to contingent questions and then try to dilute and extend too much time. We could have done a few hearings; we would have wanted to do so many more, but that was it. Times are short and short and we must run, because the nation and the European Union all need certain and fast times. Therefore, thanks to Daniele Pesco, Dario Stefano, all Commissioners of Commissions 5a and 14a for their commitment and worthwhile work. I think the report is very comprehensive. The guidelines and ideas given to the government contain almost everything, because it is impossible to put everything you need into a relationship. I shall confine myself to listing quickly - as colleagues have already done - the six missions of the Italian Plan: digitisation; ecological transition; infrastructure; education, training and research; social equity; health. It is good to consider these missions as closely linked and interdependent, because there is no mission untied from the other, but they must be seen with a clear vision of the whole, linked to each other, part of a single Plan that will have to bring Italy into the future. Italy today lays the foundations for emerging from a crisis aggravated by the global pandemic, but starting from far further away. In recent months, public debt has unfortunately seen a leap forward but, as the former President of the ECB says, there is a substantial difference between good debt and bad debt. Italy fortunately has a good debt, so we can sleep quietly from this point of view. Our Government has intervened to support Italians all and companies, which otherwise, without the interventions related to the last decrees, would have risked also failure, with all the related consequences that we can imagine. With the decree throwing again and the decree August the attention has shifted on the resumption and with the plan of resumption and resilience today we continue in the same direction. With regard to the contents of the Plan, I would like to focus on three issues which I consider to be fundamental. We talked about infrastructure, green transition and innovation at three hundred and sixty degrees: not only physical networks, but also, from a digital point of view, intangible networks. Speaking of infrastructure, today we have the opportunity to intervene where for many decades it has not been done, that is to connect the whole country. As a Sicilian and an islander I can tell you a daily life made up of a few old and dangerous roads, the absence of suitable railway connections or a territorial continuity mentioned several times, but never really realized in fact. Today we have the opportunity to overcome these difficulties that have undermined the growth not only of the South of Italy, but of all our beautiful country. Connecting the South with the rest of Europe, in fact, also means putting Italy back at the center of the Mediterranean and therefore at the center of the trade routes with the East and the South of the world. However, the infrastructure alone will not be enough to achieve all this; it will also play a fundamental role in digitization and investments in networks to fill the digital divide that weighs on the South of our country and on the country all. The pandemic forced us into new forms of work, so-called agile work or smart working, also revealing opportunities. I think of the many articles appearing in the newspapers in these months that tell - and I finally add - a different story: the South that stops depopulating and that becomes the place of work, even for those who until recently worked only in the North and returned to the South only for holidays or to meet their loved ones. This phenomenon applies not only to the South, as some colleagues have already said during the general discussion, but also to all the villages of Italy that have suffered for years from the depopulation caused by the inevitable minor opportunities offered to residents. I would like to talk about green transition and environmental technologies. As my colleague, Mr Pesco, has said, we have only one planet at our disposal, so we must act to preserve it and preserve it for future generations under conditions at least equivalent to those we found at birth. This requires investment in the circular economy, waste reduction and the development of green and sustainable supply chains. This is more true for Italy, symbol of beauty at 360 degrees, so not only from the natural point of view, as is recognized worldwide. We have a duty to take care of our forests, our waters and our mountains, also mentioned by my colleague Steger: we have not forgotten the mountain areas and the areas very dear to my colleague. In this report we have lowered all aspects of Italy, so it is not necessary to talk about coastal or mountain environments, in an isolated way, but all the places of Italy - I repeat - must be properly observed. Now I come to a subject that is particularly close to my heart, namely that of cities like mine, Gela, a place where for years it has insisted on one of the largest petrochemicals in Europe, which for years has given work, on the one hand, but which has left a very heavy debt, because it has contaminated and destroyed an entire territory. I am referring here to sites of national interest and sites of regional interest for reclamations. We have also included this in the report, because the greatest attention is paid to the protection of the territories, the reclamations and environmental rehabilitation. As a result, through the technologies in possession of some of our Italian companies, with patents recognized worldwide, we will be able to show what our industry is worth, also in this sector. Let's clean up the territories, then, and let's work. Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. You see, colleagues, if today, in this moment of unprecedented crisis, we find ourselves having the historical opportunity to redesign the future of our country for the next decades, being able to count on European financial resources unimaginable until a few years ago, it is only thanks to the work done by this Government, which I thank, that with firmness and stubbornness has managed to make this Europe change its course. [[Applause]] It is also thanks to the commitment of President Conte and the Government that we once again have a great political weight in Europe: let us remember it! Therefore, if we are to wage wars or struggles, marking the differences between political groups, let us do so in the classrooms, but let us not hoe our feet. We work together to rebuild the future of our nation! [[Applause]] I have heard again about other measures, MES, Sure and EIB, but this is not the time to split up. [[Comments. Recalls of the President]] This program has another purpose. I shall conclude by saying that I am fully aware of my strong support for the Government and I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u130	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. In accordance with the instructions of the College of Quaestors, I invite the senators to sit down, as established. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause]] I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Bernini, Ciriani and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The vote on the instrument of address will be taken at the end of the debate on the draft agenda. (17.05) Colleagues, interpreting the sentiment of the whole Assembly, I would like to congratulate Senator Ferrari for the birth of his daughter Victoria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u131	The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 15 and 16 October 2020 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u132	Dear President, kind senators and kind senators, the European Council that will take place on Thursday and Friday is the first ordinary Council in the presence, after two extraordinary meetings, also held in presence: that of 17-21 July, the famous negotiation, when the historic agreement on Next generation EU and the new multiannual financial framework was reached; that of 1 and 2 October, which recovered the European Council of mid-March last, which had been postponed because of the Covid-19. The progress of the current European Council in mid-October will have to strengthen the awareness that the full overcoming of the Covid-19 at the health and economic level remains, more than ever before, the priority objective for the European Union and its governments. It is in this spirit, in the spirit of genuine intra-European solidarity, that the meeting at which the European Council will be called upon to examine the epidemiological situation, to address the overall coordination of interventions and to discuss, at this stage, the development and distribution of a vaccine at EU level. In line with what I myself and the members of the government have always supported on the European tables since the beginning of the emergency from Covid-19, I will confirm the belief that national measures aimed at the containment of contagion must rely on a European framework of effective health and economic support and in the field of health protection and border management respectful of national competences. The Italian commitment to the fight against the pandemic is authoritative and concrete confirmation in the decision taken together with the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen to organize here in Italy a Global Health Summit during our Presidency of the G20 next year, 2021. This is a crucial opportunity to enhance our leadership on global health issues and the fight against the Covid-19, which is also explicitly recognised by the World Health Organization. The Government's efforts in the various European and international fora since the beginning of this pandemic have also focused on the search for an effective vaccine, with the aim of its fair distribution within and outside the European Union, in particular with regard to the external dimension for the benefit of the most vulnerable countries. Europe is called to remain united. Together we must be as determined as possible in this phase of the continental resurgence of the Covid-19 and the hoped-for revival of our economy. After giving an ambitious and timely response to the pandemic crisis, we on the European side must continue to work swiftly on the regulatory implementation of the Next Generation EU programme. All Member States must act consistently and loyally in accordance with the political commitment made by the European Council decision of 21 July. It is a moral obligation first of all not to forget the thousands of victims of the pandemic and to offer a better perspective to the new generations of Europeans. We therefore continue to support the efforts made by the summits of the Community institutions and the German Presidency of the Council of the European Union to avoid delays in the operation of Next generation EU and the new multiannual financial framework. In particular, we must not allow delays to occur due to the divisive use of principles and rules, such as those relating to the rule of law on which the European Council adopted its decisions on 21 July. This project to relaunch the European economy is an unprecedented opportunity to bring Italy back on a path of growth and sustainable, fair and inclusive development. In this regard, I would like to express my thanks to the Senators; sincere and heartfelt thanks for the report prepared by the European Union's budgetary and policy committees on the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which contains valuable indications for the drafting, implementation and monitoring of the Plan. The dual challenge posed by the digital ecological transition is inevitably a central priority for the development of the Plan. In particular, 40% of the resources will be devoted to investments in environmental sustainability, which help the country to achieve the emission reduction targets identified by the Integrated National Energy and Climate Plan and at the same time promote new employment, innovation and development opportunities. A crucial attention will be devoted to the valorization of Italian primacy in the field of circular economy (a primacy of which we must all be proud), to the energy efficiency of public and private buildings, with the extension of the measures already in force, such as the building superbonus, and to the relaunch of crucial investments in the protection of the territory and the water heritage. In addition, at least 20% of the Plan's resources will be devoted to the objective of digitalising innovation and the competitiveness of the production system. In addition to relaunching and refining the existing measures - I am thinking of the 4.0 transition package - a particular attention will be paid to the fundamental increase in digital skills of both public administration and the productive world, and to investments aimed at filling digital gaps in fixed, but also mobile connectivity, which still characterize many areas of the country. We can no longer tolerate that our country is at the last places in the European rankings related to the digitisation of the economy and society itself. The objective of the Government in this area is to build a more innovative Italy, simpler and more and more prepared to seize the opportunities offered by digital technologies, crucial for the full social and economic development of future generations. In addition, the Government shares the call to focus available resources on a limited number of qualifying projects that meet the strategic objectives of the Next Generation EU package. In this regard, the Government is developing the six missions - in which, as you have seen, the Plan is organized and which are indicated in the guidelines that we have presented to you - in a limited number of actions, each time closing a specific gap in the country. These actions contain the qualifying projects that will be accompanied by the necessary indicators of progress and of the performance of the works: the baselines or the trend scenario; the targets that we intend to reach; the milestones, whose completion is necessary to obtain the successive tranches of financing. Each project contained in the actions is referred to an institutional entity identified as responsible for its implementation. And the Government - I have already mentioned this - is determined to provide for an ad hoc regulatory framework for governance, implementation and monitoring of the Plan, which will be properly submitted to Parliament. I will give the utmost attention to the proposal contained in the report - which we find an interesting idea - which aims to ensure appropriate incentives for the implementation of projects, as well as penalties for the inactivity of those who do not comply with the timetable set. [[Applause]] We grasp the spirit, the objective and the ratio of this proposal, which are absolutely shared by the Government in order to ensure fast and reliable times for the implementation of the Plan, which is essential to ensure a rapid absorption of European resources and to prevent that once again, as has happened in the past, they may be wasted. I hope that the climate of loyal cooperation between all the parliamentary groups, which has already existed in recent months during the toughest phase of the pandemic, can also be preserved in view of the vote on the next budgetary deviation, which is a fundamental step to ensure the resources necessary to face the challenges that unfortunately the pandemic still anticipates us. Maximum will also be at all stages, as is also hoped in the same report presented by the Commissions, the loyal collaboration with the Regions and with the local authorities. The objective of the Government is that all institutional actors involved in the implementation of the Plan, but also political forces, trade unions, businesses and civil society as a whole, can share the economic policy strategy that is prefigured in the Plan itself. We must all move in this same direction of relaunching the country. The other main points on the agenda of this European Council also concern issues that will have an impact on Europe in the coming decades. I am talking about the negotiations on the future relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom; I am talking about climate change and relations between the European Union and Africa. As regards the negotiations with London, the European Council is called upon to examine the implementation of the withdrawal agreement and the state of negotiations on the future relationship with the United Kingdom, as well as to discuss preparations for all possible scenarios after 1 January 2021. As you know, we are at a crucial stage in this negotiation, both politically and technically. The President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson, on Saturday 3 October, invited their chief negotiators to make an effort to bridge the continuing gap between the parties. This distance concerns above all, but not only (I would like to stress this), the central themes of fisheries, equal conditions (the famous level playing field) and the governance of the future report. Now more than ever it is essential, as Italy has always consistently supported, to maintain the unity of the 27 Member States in support of the European Commission and its chief negotiator, Michel Barnier. Time is running, negotiating session after negotiating session, towards that deadline, which, as mentioned, is set at 31 December this year, for an agreement capable of regulating the relationship between the European Union and the United Kingdom. The time that remains is not so much, indeed very little, and must be used by both sides wisely and also with political foresight. To a scenario without agreement, the so-called no deal, we want and must continue to prefer - we will do so until the last useful moment - an agreement - but not at all cost - balanced and fair. We want an ambitious partnership with the United Kingdom, a future relationship that reflects both the depth of relations and the current economic, political and social balance between the United Kingdom and one of the major global markets, such as the European Union. It is equally clear that the European Union should continue to support the restoration by London of the full implementation of the withdrawal agreement which we consider to be violated by the British internal market bill, which, as you know, is the subject of an infringement procedure by the European Commission. Respect for the Protocol on Ireland is, in fact, a fundamental international legal obligation to protect peace and stability on the island of Ireland, as well as a prerequisite for the successful outcome of negotiations on the future partnership. Moving on to climate change, a debate will take place at the European Council in preparation for the political decisions that will hopefully be taken at the next European Council in December. We are confident that this sequence will start, from the European Council on Thursday and Friday, from an ambitious debate. The pandemic has opened up new scenarios, also for the strategy of combating climate change and environmental protection, essential for a reconstruction that truly rests on new foundations. It will therefore be necessary to work together to ensure that the re-launching of ambitions in climate matters increasingly meets the demands of our citizens (I am thinking above all of the younger generations) for a resilient future to climate change and efficient use of our resources, which are limited. In this regard, I would like to reiterate that a timely launch of Next Generation EU and the new Multiannual Financial Framework is also essential to honour climate change commitments. These are commitments to be included in a legal and financial framework that avoids a zero-sum game between the Member States closest to achieving the climate objectives and those that remain behind. Italy has the ambition to be at the forefront of Europe, but also in a broader perspective, in promoting a high level of ambition on a global challenge such as climate change. This, moreover, is what characterizes our partnership with the United Kingdom for COP26. You know that this event has been postponed from the current year to the next year and we are co-chairs with the United Kingdom. This is also the line that will characterize the programme of the Italian Presidency of the G20, which will be articulated around the trinomial: people, planet, prosperity. The message that we want to convey and on which we want to invite all world leaders to reflect is simple: we need to take care of the planet and people with a holistic approach, aimed at the objective of a substantial economic and social recovery, but that at the same time is inclusive and truly sustainable. [[Applause]] Finally, at its meeting on external relations, the European Council will adopt conclusions on relations between the European Union and Africa. This is a further political signal to confirm the European commitment to a partnership with Africa that is broad, multi-dimensional and multi-level. The basic objective must remain that of partnership between equals, modifying the paradigm of substantial asymmetry on which our relations with the African continent have historically been founded. It is also appropriate - and we are working in this respect - that the partnership between the European Union and the African Union should also be reflected in better cooperation on migration matters and in consultations that can promote solutions to regional crises on the African continent. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u133	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u134	Mr President, as President Conte knows, I follow very closely the evolution of the positions taken by the Government and the President of the Italian Council in the European context, in which today the issue of combating the pandemic is raised. I would like to express to you a sincere appreciation, President Conte. I have seen, in these twenty-eight months of your governments, something that seems to me to be of great importance both at European tables and in the Italian debate and - I speak to you very directly, if I may say so - you have proved this to a considerable extent. [[Applause]] I am referring to the gradual realization, which I believe is followed by a gradual expulsion on its part, with the grace that distinguishes it, but also with the clarity of its actions, of an enormity of encrustations, of unreasonableness, of opposition to the common sense. You have done this both from the point of view of the method of government and from the point of view - I think - of substance. Perhaps you will recall, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that I, on the basis of the brutality of frankness, repeatedly pointed out to you that your action as President of the Council was not in conformity with Article 95 of the Constitution during the first Count Government. You started from a situation of objective difficulty and inexperience on many crucial occasions, especially for Italian foreign policy, and did not guide the general policy of the Government, as the Constitution prescribes. The policy was carried out, quite randomly, by a Vice President of the Council responsible for Home Affairs or by a Vice President of the Council responsible for Development and Work. I think you have gradually learned that it was not by this method that you could govern and in those months you have also learned that it was not with eager and superficial confrontations to Europe that you could assert the personality of a country like Italy in Europe. Well, it seems to me that, even with regard to the contrast to the pandemic, the action of your Government is recognized, with all the nuances of the case, both in Italy and elsewhere. As you may know, I have had the opportunity for a few months to follow the activities of the World Health Organization, not from a technical and health point of view but from the point of view of the considerations of the political priorities that will be necessary in the coming years in the WHO Member States in the light of the pandemic, and I feel with attention, satisfaction and satisfaction the sincere appreciation that exists for the action carried out by your Government. Well, I see, for consistency both with the advent of a method of reasonable common sense and of abandoning the obvious unreasonableness, a necessary action, which you already imagine what it can be and which is also part of a European Council whose first point is the contrast to the pandemic. There can be no consistency and common sense if you do not address promptly the issue that has become a taboo only in our country. I am referring to the facilitated credit line of the European Stability Mechanism. You, in my opinion, should promote a calm debate by spending more money because you are the leader and who is such does not follow the opinions of the groups, including the one closest to you, but you try to guide on the basis of reason, as you have already done in so many areas. It should not be difficult to conclude that there is no reason, if you take seriously the need to have an adequate and modern health system, not to make use of these funds. ( [[Applause]] ). Is there a stigma? Only Cyprus has indicated its intention to use them. Maybe we consider Cyprus for what it is, but Cyprus today is a country whose spread in the financial markets is just over half that of Italy. Therefore, it is in a better financial condition than the Italian one. I do not understand that in the political debate in Cyprus the index has been set towards Italy and it has been said: "No, we do not take this step because even Italy, which according to the markets is in less good financial condition than ours, has not done so. Mr President, in my opinion, there is no reason why you should not spend more. It is boring to spend, but I believe that it is also the best part of politics to change the conviction of others on the basis of arguments, to show that it is strictly complementary to the general policy of the Italian Government to take this step, not only because it can be financed on more advantageous terms, but also because, Mr President, you know that spending travels from lobbying and constitutionality. Health care doesn't have that behind it. Its government will struggle to allocate €36-37 billion for health care if it cannot avail itself of the only conditionality that the ESM entails, namely that this money goes to health care. So think about this. Excuse me for allowing me to give you a very concrete suggestion but I believe that the explotion of irrationality from the Italian political debate and the government action that you are meritoriously taking would in this case have a significant and signalistic step of value. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u135	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u136	Mr President, Conte, ladies and gentlemen, climate change has taken place over the last decade to the attention of the agenda of the governments of the most industrialized countries, becoming one of the most important topics on the political agenda. In fact, climate change appears to be a real, significant, global phenomenon that directly invests many fundamental fields of existence, from the environment to health, from the economy to the social aspects. Addressing the phenomenon from an active perspective, assessing the impact of human activity on the environment, appears to be the only way forward to try to contain the devastating effects of this phenomenon on human life and activities. That climate change is of human origin has also demonstrated this serious period that unfortunately we are living because of the coronavirus. In fact, the result of global pollution reduction that we have experienced in lockdown, having been a forced stop to the industry, the circulation of cars and other pollutants, is proof of how this climate change is directly influenced by human activities. The numerous scientific studies, starting with those prepared by the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), also tell us. Ban Ki-moon himself emphasized this in his December 2007 speech when he became Secretary General of the United Nations, raising the problem worldwide for the first time. These climatic variations, I would stress, have a serious and in many ways dangerous impact on a strategic sector for human life and for the existence of what is agriculture. The effects of climate change on this sector are due to three macro-areas: agricultural production, food chain security and social security. Some research models show that agricultural production, measured in monetary terms, is a function of some climatic variables: the change in climate order, in fact, will change - and is already changing - the behaviour of the main variables affecting production, such as temperatures, which have already increased and will increase by 1,5-2 degrees Celsius until 2050, and precipitation, which are already in sharp decline. As regards the second macro-area, that of food chain security, the expected impacts of climate change will mainly concern the increased criticality of water management and the acceleration of the spread of diseases and contamination in agricultural products and food. The lack of water will have a serious impact on agricultural production and the European landscape. Finally, with regard to the third macro-area, which concerns social security, studies tell us that the effects of climate change on the availability and distribution of natural resources will most likely lead to an increase in turbulence and migration. The competition for natural resources, which in the coming decades will be aggravated by global warming, will most likely produce turbulence and migratory phenomena in various regions of the country. Numerous effects of these changes have already been observed in nature: the advance of the flowering period of the plants, the lengthening of the growing season of the vineyards and the changes in other natural cycles of the plants. Changes in the timetable of cultivation activities, such as sowing and harvesting, indicate that farmers are unfortunately already adapting to new climatic conditions. The mitigation actions on which we must aim are potentially many, but the main ones, which must be brought out loud in Europe can be summarized in these areas: reduction of direct and indirect energy consumption; integration and diffusion of renewable energy sources; reduction of methane and nitrous oxide emissions produced by farms and fertilization practices; optimization of water use. Water is strategic for the future of humanity and, above all, for the change in cultivation practices and crop varieties that farmers are calling on us loudly. These varieties must necessarily adapt to climatic variations. Soil consumption must then be kept to a minimum, because all available soil must be used for food production. The global trend leads us to move towards organic farming and to find methods. This is one of the demands that comes, for example, from the agricultural world to protect niche productions, those excellences that are already positioned in the market. Mr President, the agricultural sector is called upon to provide solutions that are capable of increasing the adaptation of crops to the direct effects of climate change, as well as finding solutions that contribute to the reduction of the gas emissions that are characteristic of agriculture. We know that agriculture and, above all, intensive farms contribute 30% to the pollution of the entire planet. The urgency of decisive and immediate action to reverse this process is therefore in no way postponed and in this emerging context Italy has and must take a leading role in the issues of climate change, landscape protection and soil protection. The green new deal included in the government program - because we have it as a fundamental point of our programme - goes in this direction, trying to arrive at a radical change of cultural paradigm that leads to the inclusion of the protection of the environment and biodiversity as the fundamental principles of our constitutional system. In the right direction are also the recent measures, which have always been put in place by the Government, on reforestation, including the provisions of the budget law, which provided for measures which are equally important for the environmental transition. The Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), to which no funds must be taken (Mr President, there must be no cut in the CAP funds and we must defend the money that has been allocated to it for the other years), has put in place over time some operational instruments that can potentially help reduce the exposure and vulnerability of the agricultural production system to the effects of climate change and increase resilience. Same thing you are trying to achieve through the Rural Development Plans and measures in favour of forestation. Other new tools are needed, also because the coronavirus pandemic has created other inconveniences in such a strategic sector for our nation. On the occasion of the coronavirus we have touched with hand the strategicity of this field and of all the operators of the field, that they have been able to guarantee the necessary supplyings in such a difficult period. That is why, Mr President, I call on you, for agriculture, to pay great attention to the distribution of the money from the recovery fund. Only in this way can this dangerous tendency to leave a planet devastated and without food be reversed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u137	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u138	Mr. President Conte, probably the hard work of the night DPCM and the press conferences brought you here a little tired. We would have expected, in fact, a little more intervention, not vibrating, but substance. [[Applause]] It is true that the speeches made on the eve of the frequent European meetings have become somewhat ritual, although necessary, for a confrontation with Parliament, but we would have expected some more concrete indications, partly because the situation is far from clear in various respects. Forza Italia is part of the European People's Party and, again here, claims the active role that we have played in the European Parliament, including through President Berlusconi and through the vice-president of the European People's Party Antonio Tajani, to urge the decisions that have led to the definition, theoretical and not yet practical, of the recovery fund and the decisions that are needed to deal with this emergency, has struck the whole planet, has hit Europe very much, has struck Italy very much and has now been far from exhausted. Therefore, we are absolutely committed to ensuring that Europe does not lose this opportunity, to justify its very existence. We are not Euro-Rhetoric: we are Europeans, because we think that Europe fortress must be defended by its resources, its economy, its history and its civilization from the thousand assaults it suffers. [[Applause]] You've been to Taranto. For example, we would not like them to sell out to the Chinese pieces of Italy and our ports, yesterday Trieste and tomorrow Taranto, to unfair competition. [[Applause]] We demand the respect of every rule by the last craftsman, the last trader but then, when we arrive on our markets counterfeit products, products made by polluting the planet, products made illegally exploiting the work of others, in the end we say nothing. We believe that, in this respect too, we need a little more firmness and that Europe and Italy should demonstrate. Instead, Taranto is being written disturbing pages. We are therefore fully aware of the need for Europe. We are concerned, Mr Conte, because we are talking about about EUR 209 billion here, but in fact the negotiations are progressing very slowly and tirelessly. Not later than yesterday, the Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Mr Gentiloni, speaking at an Assolombarda meeting, spoke of EUR 20 billion which may be paid out in the coming months. I mean, the situation is far from clear. We must understand the times, the modalities, the amount that will be lost, the amount that will inevitably be a loan, the projects that we have not had a trace of. We are discussing this in parallel in Parliament: there are guidelines, there are no plans and we have heard nothing today, frankly. Yes, of course, we need the money for health care. Yes, of course, we need money for digitization. Yes, of course, we need money for agriculture. We could continue the list, but we still see no concrete initiative from the government and no plans. You have to listen. Even on the opposition's speech, we are not here to please dialogue, President Conte. Today we govern two thirds of Italy on the territory and you must confront the regions and the political forces that have a democratic and popular legitimacy. It's not a concession. [[Applause]] That his method of making decrees, asking for trust and anything else is not good, he told him also the highest institution of the Republic, when the President of the Republic recently signed with reservations one of the many decrees where you even put the rules on the road code and I don't know what else. After that, the calls also came from this House, President Conte. You said you didn't read the interview with the President of the Senate. I do not know if there is a return illiteracy or idiosyncrasia towards the newspapers, but when you become important leaders you say that you do not read the newspapers; many have done so before you, even on our side. The President of the Senate said: I understand the reasons for the emergency, but I would not like to see proposals for direct democracy, calls for distance voting and continuous recourse to decree-laws ending up breaking down Parliament and therefore representative democracy. The President of the Senate is a very moderate and measured person and therefore, if he said these things, he evidently warns them in the sensitivity of the Assembly, not only of the opposition. When she was asked if she thought that the opposition should be more involved and, in general, what she thought of the government method, she replied that she did not share it because she did not see it, and that oppositions must certainly be involved (then she continued with other considerations). She also said today that she sees opposition. Of course, he is seeing us, he sees us; we are here, we are alive and we are well, hopefully, compatible with the season, that does not spare anyone. [[Applause]] Even our leader, like many Italians, has had to deal with the emergency of health that affects everyone, rich and poor. But we believe that we must have a real confrontation, not that of decrees and trust. Even on this European project, if it will be EUR 200 billion at the end, they commit entire generations and part of the debt of the future. In the years to come who knows how many and what governments there will be. It's not that she's gonna be there all her life, even though, quite rightly, she says she's with them and she's with them, regardless of majorities; she probably thinks she has a place for life. [[Applause]] We want a serious confrontation, which is not that in the Commissions where - look - the amendments are too many; we do a self-limitation, provided that they are discussed and provided that someone approves of them. It is not possible that, on thousands of proposals, they are all wrong; it is not possible that the recovery plan and the future of Europe will not be discussed in a serious forum. Make it a real confrontation with the oppositions! [[Applause]] You did all the possible scenery; do you remember the radiant days of comparison at Villa Pamphili? We are not pitying anything, but let's say that, since this project for Italy in Europe will commit the country for a long time and because part of that disbursement, which will be a loan, will have to repay it who knows how many generations, we believe it is right that the whole country discuss it in its representations, not with the gag of trust and decrees, but with a real confrontation. As far as strictly European issues are concerned, you have made a very vague mention of Africa and immigration. I would like to ask you whether you remember the Malta Agreements? I remember them and I have respect for the Interior Minister Lamorgese, who spoke from the ramparts of Malta announcing a great plan for the redistribution of immigrants. A thousand a day arrives in Lampedusa: tell me where you are sending them [[Applause]] , who tends a hand to Italy, who does something to block, as it would be necessary, or at least to share the problem. I do not go into the question of blocking or not blocking; having been the rapporteur of the well-known affair, I know how the entire Government (the other, Mr President) shared some things, but then you will explain that to Catania, when they end up filing a trial that has no reason to start. We would therefore like to know what happened to the Malta Agreements. Where is this sharing? This is also related to that, Mr President. There's no sharing, there's nothing. The last version is that they will pay; if they stay in Italy, they will give an obulation. If you make it give this oboleum, since the costs are considerable and the problems, in a medical emergency phase, overlap with those of the virus and so on. So, since you mentioned this too, go and talk about it in Europe. You're also talking about other issues. Yesterday, news about Uber was reported, which is one of the giants who deals with taxis, transportation, abusive "taxism"; he also deals with the delivery of food at home. They were charged (I hope to be acquitted) because in the interceptions they exploited foreigners. You are so supportive, but why do you then kneel before the potentates, who mainly exploit foreigners sent to deliver parcels? Tips also lifted him. [[Applause]] Uber is a colossus of a kind; then there are others. There is Google, who has had a fine of EUR 14 billion from the European Union and has now resorted to Ireland not to pay it; there are all those, like Amazon and Google, who loot editorial content and trade it, killing the real economy. We would like the web tax to balance them; this is a great European issue. [[Applause]] Craftsman, merchant or metal mechanic pay 20, 30, 40 or 50 percent of taxes. I give it to him a starting point for Europe: Amazon in Italy, out of 4.5 billion euros of revenues, last year paid 11 million euros of taxes (0.2%). Apply this rate to all Italians. We'd like some equity. It is said that Europe must do it and Italy must not do it; then that the OECD must do it and no longer only Europe can do it or that the galactic senate of "Star Wars" will think about it. [[Applause]] Who should do this measure of fiscal equity? I also tell President Monti that he has dealt with these matters. The problem is fairness, otherwise we have huge tax-free and massacred dwarfs. This is a serious issue to be addressed in Europe, which is worth many other plans. I have not even mentioned the issue of the ESM, and so I come to the conclusion, Mr President, we are a cohesive coalition, which is united and governs two thirds of the territories. On this we have a different sensitivity and we do not hide it, not even its majority. You don't talk about it, because you don't know whether to listen to the Democratic Party and others telling you to use the ESM or the party that has expressed it more than others. We tell the truth in the light of the sun: there is no conditionality; the cost of that money is lower than anything else and, even if we collect it on the internal market, we should then pay that savings with interest. We cannot rob the Italians of their savings (with taxes, this sometimes happens). [[Applause]] Therefore, we believe that there are all the conditions for using the ESM, also because it is not true that health care does not need it. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have made a whole series of decrees and in mid-October there are still intensive care competitions. What have you been doing these months? What have you been arguing about? [[Applause]] You argued about Bertolaso, because he opened the hospitals for the ICU, and then you said they were empty, but luckily no one needed it. Now, God doesn't want to have to be filled again. Hospitals are like a fire extinguisher, so they wish everyone never to use it, but there must be in case of need. So, Mr President-in-Office, there are many things to do and write. We are not here to stretch hands or crutches to anyone, we are neither jockeys, nor puppets, nor puppets. The run-up to the vote, to the vote and to the 161 perhaps even pushes someone to turn himself in. We are not handed over to anyone, we are defending the interests of Italy in this Parliament and in Europe and we have the right to be heard. And if he does not listen to us his Government, the Italians will certainly listen to us and listen to us in Europe, where our voice is always clear and strong. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u139	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u140	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the wish, at least what all Italians should do, is to deal with a respectable political class. Generally, when this happens, the various issues, especially on European issues, should be addressed with less superficiality and more in-depth analysis. Let us say this because, compared to the Next generation EU and the recovery fund, through which we all expect and hope that aid and resources will come from Europe that will allow us to improve our economic situation and move towards recovery, perhaps it would be appropriate to know what are the sacrifices that Italians will have to make in order to have these loans. You have written it directly in your report: we are talking about increased revenue or reduction of other expenditure. So, in a much more serious way, it would be nice to tell the Italians what we want to do, but also the sacrifices they will have to make to get this loan. [[Applause]] It would be more correct for everyone, just for a matter of transparency, to you so dear and not only to you, but to your Movement. The other question is that the government, in our opinion, perhaps promised money that it has not yet, creating too many expectations on the recovery fund, because we all know that, in order to be operational, this instrument needs the vote of 27 governments and 27 parliaments. We were reminded by Senator Monti himself, in an article on the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening), in which, among other things, he also pointed out some fears about the possible vote of the Dutch Parliament. We also have issues relating to Hungary and Poland - you were right to point this out - namely the conditionality of the recognition of the rule of law and civil rights to the LGBT community by these two states, which are not very pleased. Some evil people say that this stake has been set precisely to blow up everything from some country, which does not have a great desire to create all this solidarity. Then it takes a little more calm and attention. We also have problems with the European budget: you know, Mr President, that there are discussions between the various European countries, because many people do not think it right or right to sacrifice resources on agriculture and fisheries, to focus instead on digitisation, climate change, energy transaction and so on. So the times are likely to be longer and the President of the Republic's call went in this direction: be careful; let us hope; let us do it quickly, as you said, just a short time ago. So, before promising entrepreneurs and the country that the solution will arrive tomorrow morning, perhaps it is better to explain to the country that this measure is not yet operational. We certainly hope that it will be, but it is still not, and therefore, for greater transparency, this aspect should be highlighted. Mr President, on the pandemic I do not practice punctual and precise praise for you, as Senator Monti did, because history will tell us whether you and your Government you may have done well or not. What I understand is that, even in the face of the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, there has certainly been a climate of fear and terror in the population. Many mayors receive calls from citizens, who ask to cancel everything, from rides, fairs, parties and so on, because they are afraid. The real risk of the recently issued decree is therefore that we go towards an unstated lockdown, but occult, which could create a problem not small in the country. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you often and willingly refer to institutional cooperation, but I understand that on the aforementioned decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, for example, there has not been an okay of the Regions, bearing witness to the fact that the Government goes straight on its way, often calling for cooperation, which in fact does not take place. On the subject of the ESM, I address Senator Monti, but also my colleagues in Forza Italia. Without going into the matter whether it's right to activate it or not, I remember that it's direct and indirect expenses related to Covid, so you can't think of using those resources to build hospitals intended to cure who knows what kind of disease. The types of expenditure are those and we can maybe bring you back something we've already spent. Moreover, in view of the effects, 37 billion euros would be many: less is enough, so much so that the government has estimated 1.7 billion euros. Looking back, however, a little 'taking into consideration the smart working, a bit 'for the fact that the resources for the bans of intensive therapies were already available in May, but they started on October 2, reasonably we can imagine how long it will take before they become operational. We know the times of bureaucracy, with the victory of the race, the appeal and everything else. The real risk is that, using the ESM - I say this regardless of my idea - we will see Covid hospitals built years after we are all already vaccinated for this pandemic virus. So, the risk is really to throw away resources in this direction. Perhaps it is better to use the money we already have and perhaps try to speed up the response times, which must take place directly and immediately. I would like to point out - because we have not forgotten this - that the President-in-Office of the Council also mentioned in his speech the relationship between the European Union and Africa (the next European Council will deal with a number of issues). Perhaps, in this regard, we should start not to omit, as President Conte did, the issue of Libya, for which the policy of the European Union has been totally non-existent. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with the Italian policy pursued by you and the position of neutrality and dialogue with the two opposing factions - on which I would very much like to know what Senator Alfieri thinks, who follows these events very closely - we have basically come out of the picture. The clear demonstration of the inability to manage this political situation, coming out of the picture from a territory that has seen us protagonists for many years, is the seizure of fishermen, on which, after a long time, we have not yet been able to give a clear and definite answer. [[Applause]] So we're out of there, but we're also thinking about the rest of Africa. President Conte has highlighted the theme of international cooperation and, in this regard, on the subject of immigration, if we want to try to find a solution, I quote, in a very synthetic way, the words of the bishop of Ventimiglia-Sanremo, according to which the right not to migrate precedes that to emigrate: therefore, at the level of international cooperation, the right of people to realize their dreams and desires in their own land of origin, for their own good, because detachment is painful and due to a duty of responsible solidarity towards their homeland. If well-being mirages occur, the youngest, healthiest, most educated, most well-off and able to pay for the journey are inspired. Why impoverish Africa's territories with the best energy? [[Applause]] This is an appeal that we have made several times; among other things, the concept of inviting them to their home has been taken up, also in one of his books, by Senator Renzi, so it is a theme that should be more developed. I have been hearing about a European Union Marshall Plan for Africa for some time now. In the negotiations on the European budget we are also talking about the fact that the resources, which essentially come from the European Development Fund (EDF), are heading in the direction of helping the countries of Africa. Will these resources be integrated? Can Italy take this important task to ask for integration? It will be a paradox, but we have given more money to Turkey than we have given for all the cooperation in the world at European Union level, and that definitely does not do us much credit. [[Applause.]] The logic is to go to those places and make sure that that continent can develop and that people can actually work there. This, perhaps, is the real objective that can be achieved in Europe because, compared to other issues, we are not pursuing the revision of the Dublin Regulation. On the other hand, we have seen that intentions are always good, but then in the end they are denied by evidence the next day and basically testify to what Senator Gasparri also said about the Malta Agreement, which in the end does not exist. I'd seen one relocated since that deal existed! [[Applause.]] Honestly, if they showed me even one on television -- just to say, "Here's the first relocated!" - I would have put my heart in peace and I would have said that the agreement works. We do not pursue policies that do not lead anywhere, like that of deleting the decrees-security law, except to the effect of creating a mirage; that of which the bishop of Ventimiglia-San Remo spoke, so much so that it is not a coincidence that, after the decree of cancellation, 700 have landed at once. Perhaps it is better to invest in international cooperation: this is the true European response that can be given to such a subject. [[Applause),]] of which no one speaks, which has been completely set aside. President Conte, a journalist has said - and he has basically focused on the objective, in my opinion - that Salvini is the most pro-European of Europeans in the field of immigration. Why? France rejects at the Ventimiglia border; Spain builds the highest wall in the world, 10 meters in steel and wood, to replace barbed wire, spending 17 million euros (socialist Spain: Zapatero had started it and the Sánchez government is ending it); Germany gave some money to Turkey, to keep good on that front possible arrivals; we know the position of Hungary, like that of the frugal and non-frugal countries. Basically, in Europe, Mr President, immigrants, especially economic immigrants, do not want them. [[Applause.]] So perhaps we should move towards this reasoning and cooperation, precisely in the European spirit, I would say, because here the spirit is truly European. Otherwise, we continue to make fun of people on all issues: from the recovery plan to the ESM, to many others including immigration, cooperation and the future of this Europe so supportive that, in your opinion, it has already changed. On the contrary, in our view, before we say that it has changed - and we hope it will change in that direction - we must see it, sincerely, in evidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u141	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at the European Council on 15 and 16 October, one of the items on the agenda will be the issue of climate change and its consequences on the planet. Above all, we will talk about the progress being made towards the European Union's objective of achieving climate neutrality by 2050, including through the adoption of the 2030 climate targets plan. For too long we have lived, made economy, produced, used fossil sources and exploited the resources of the planet as if this were inexhaustible and capable of absorbing any variation induced by human activities. At last, after decades of alarm launched from several parts - and from the Movimento 5 Stars, among others - it has been noted that these modalities of development are unsustainable and incompatible with the environment and that, if we continue on this road, we would end up inexorably in the abyss, long before the worst forecasts that only ten or twenty years ago did some climatologists and some exponents of both civil society and politics. This new awareness of the extreme gravity of the moment and of the need to intervene drastically is found in the list of the six missions that have been contemplated in the recovery plan and that - I remember - are digitalization and innovation, infrastructures for mobility, education and training, social equity of gender and territorial, health, green revolution and ecological transition. Just recently, the Senate voted on the report on guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will use the recovery fund. Thanks to these huge funds, which amount to 750 billion, of which 209 for Italy, and to the philosophy that inspires its operation, we are able, perhaps for the first time, to plan the future of the environment, infrastructure and sustainable development of Italy and Europe for the next fifty years. Without this instrument, we would never have had such a perspective and I believe it is right for everyone and intellectually honest to admit that having obtained it - and this is the first time it has happened in the European Union - is a huge achievement, thanks to this Government and the constant stimulus exerted within it by the 5 Star Movement. A few minutes ago, an opposition senator said he wanted to make a truth operation: according to him, the 209 billion of the recovery would have arrived thanks to a mere arithmetic calculation; above all, they would have arrived with any Italian government in office and therefore the action of the President of the Count Council, its Executive and its Ministers would not have affected in any way. If that is true, I wonder why this simple arithmetic calculation was not done in 2008 and the following years. How come, during that frightening crisis, which is also exogenous, like this one that we are unfortunately living, the then centre-right government, instead of doing the simple arithmetic calculation and returning from Europe with the funds, returned with the austerity and the letter of the European Central Bank that asked us to put the accounts in order, since the spread had splashed at 575 points? I ask myself and the House. I would like to remind everyone that, until the end of March 2020, so not a century ago, but only six months ago, the European response to the pandemic, now definitively exploded, consisted only of the famous - or infamous - package in which the principals of the European Investment Bank (EIB), the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) and the Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (Sure); packages that Government and Parliament, this time almost unanimously, had found insufficient and not up to the challenge that was emerging before the whole of the European Union. At the end of that month, in particular on the eve of the European Council on 26 March, the Italian Government took the lead in an initiative, condensed in a letter signed by eight other European countries, to ask the European Union for a totally new economic intervention, much more massive and finally supported by the issuance of a common debt. The initiative of our Government, as you know, has been able to speed up a debate that has led in a short time the European Commission to propose the recovery fund with the famous division into subsidies, that is, the funds lost (to Italy will touch about 80 billion, a colossal figure) and the part in loans, for about 127 billion, on facilitated conditions and with particularly long repayment times. Above all, the initiative of the Italian Government, continually pricked by the 5 Star Movement, has led the Community institutions to tie the recovery fund to crucial investment sectors for the future of Italy, such as digital, green, energy transition and intangible and material infrastructure. All the controversy, more or less instrumental and propaganda, and the true lies that have been spread over the last few months will not be able to obscure a fundamental point of the whole issue, namely that the recovery fund is a great result obtained by the Government, the country and the Parliament. As far as the time of arrival of the money from the recovery fund is concerned, which has also been mentioned in this House today - in my view - in terms of Italy's delays, the timing largely escapes the possibility of intervention by national governments for the simple, but very good reason that there is a well-established and well-defined European procedure, that dictates the path and that the National Plans for Recovery and Resilience can be presented for a first assessment by the Commission when the European Regulation on Recovery and Resilience Mechanism comes into force. This, presumably, will not happen before 1 January 2021; other than Italy's delays. Then the European Commission will have two months for its assessments and to propose to the Ecofin Council the approval of the various national plans. In turn, the Ecofin Council will have to approve the National Plans by means of an act to be adopted by qualified majority within four weeks. In any case, all other regulatory acts that will have to regulate the Next Generation EU are currently under negotiation. So there is no delay and those who are making a vicious propaganda, suggesting that Italy is late on the road map, falsely says, because the presentation of the National Plans, as I have just said, can only take place after the European adoption of the regulation to which I referred earlier. Another fandonia, which has been propalated in recent times, concerns the legend that the money of the recovery fund would arrive late and that this government would not know how to use them and brancoli in the dark and in the approximation. It is false, of course, because the recovery fund funds will arrive in 2021, and in fact the budget law, which will be presented to the Chambers in a few weeks, will use 25 billion of these resources, of which 14 of subsidies and 11 of loans. I do not say that, but it is written in NADEF that we are currently examining the budget in the Committee on Budgets. There's more. Today Italy is able to find resources on the markets at very advantageous rates. Five-year government bonds have virtually zero interest rates and shorter bonds even have negative interest rates. Our ten-year period in relation to the German one is 120 basis points spread and interest is 0.7%. There are levels that haven't really been reached in decades. In conclusion, the country is in good hands and we of Movimento 5 Stars will continue to operate in the exclusive interest of citizens, businesses and especially of those who have suffered and had little or nothing in recent years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u143	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u144	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, together with the pain, the pandemic has given us, in my opinion, an inevitable bath of reality. There is no El Dorado available outside Europe; on the contrary, I have to say that the European dimension, despite its complexity, is the minimum horizon for further openness to the world. The Europe that looks ahead and unites in the face of danger, and that I know best, is that of research, which last September invested in the Horizon 2020 programme half a billion euros per cent projects dedicated to the fight against the pandemic; by December, it will invest another billion. Yet the next Horizon programme, the main instrument for promoting European research that looks to the future, is the one that more than others could pay for adverse circumstances. On 21 July, in its conclusions, the European Council proposed a reduction of €13.5 billion (about 10% less than the Commission's proposal of May 2020), which will affect the scope of basic and applied research, as well as humanistic and scientific research. What I am asking of you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is that you explore every useful way to eliminate this cut in the ongoing negotiations, enhancing the will of the European Parliament, which had asked to increase the Horizon 2020 budget to EUR 120 billion. Connected with this European theme, on the Italian front today the Senate approved the report on the proposal for guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. Scrolling through the document, I would like to focus on the subject of public research, focusing on a specific element, which is mentioned on page 29, which commits the Ministry of University and Research to the preparation of calls for the adoption of an extraordinary plan, aimed at the creation of new research groups, led by young scholars of every disciplinary field, selected with open, transparent and competitive procedures, so that they can develop innovative and frontier projects. I believe that this instance, to be declined also as an instrument of territorial cohesion aimed at mitigating the geographical inequalities of the country, can really be a lever immediately available, for a government that wants to think of innovative initiatives, that make system and the necessary qualitative leap. I believe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that truly extraordinary and breaking-up initiatives are needed which can accompany the Government's commitment, already present in the guidelines, to bring research and development expenditure above the European average, following the call made by Professor Ugo Amaldi and made precisely by thousands of scholars. Starting with the conclusion, this Government and this Parliament can become protagonists of a disruptive, unprecedented initiative of a Next generation Italy, which could earn the confidence of the country thanks to a substantial and transparent investment directly on the ideas, those today unknown, of which our country is scattered, which today are out of the box, young scholars and small groups to be lit, wherever they are, waiting to bud and network. It is with these investments on small ideas that they dare, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we can aim to win the most prizes that our country has not won for decades. Our country has the cognitive capital to get there, there are ideas and, for once, also resources; I appeal to you, to the Government and colleagues of majority and opposition, so that we find the political determination to give life to Italy of young scholars, so that they prepare and equip our country to the best to face the future [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u145	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, tomorrow's European Council, among the various items on the agenda, also presents a number of very problematic international issues, which concern us and are of particular concern to us. I am thinking first of all of the issue of Brexit, then of the resumption of the agreements with Britain, aimed at averting a no deal, a hard Brexit. Let us look with concern at the development of the situation in the United Kingdom, which seems to be a blurry scenario, which we hoped would not have materialized. This is an urgent issue, which concerns us closely, also as a result of the presence of over 700,000 of our fellow countrymen living there and who are likely to see compromises on the rights acquired to date, both in terms of health care and rights in the world of work and study, and in everyday practical life. That is why we need the European Union to provide proper protection and to sit at the different consultation tables, making its voice heard even louder today. It is not an exaggeration to fear for our fellow countrymen, because the United Kingdom, with the current Prime Minister Johnson, has already repeatedly shown a selective and hostile attitude, set to advance the negotiations only in the steps of direct interest of Britain, without considering and denouncing the agreements already entered into with the European Union. Here, in addition to our fellow citizens, we must also protect our companies: there are about 30,000 Italian companies that live on export, protagonists of that trade surplus active between Italy and the United Kingdom of almost 22 billion euros per year. I am thinking, for example, of the producers and exporters of prosecco or agro-food, but also of many of our companies that, instead, turn to the field of defence or, in general, to the companies of Made in Italy that, without the adequate protection in the bilateral organization of export relations, risk being severely penalized by a hard Brexit. That is why - and it is important to reiterate this right now - it is essential that at national level we also think of extraordinary measures to be taken where a possible no deal should occur, even today in advance. Brexit was a choice of British citizens, legitimate and certainly sad, but it is important that we now do everything possible to ensure that its consequences do not fall on our European citizens and, even less, on our companies. Alongside the issue of Brexit, there are other aspects on the agenda of tomorrow's European Council which we consider to be particularly important. In fact, talking about Turkey, Belarus or Nagorno-Karabakh, as set out in the two-day agenda in Brussels, means discussing how to advance our deeply democratic European culture, whether it be human, social or civil rights; all rights which, at present, are strongly compromised, both in Turkey and in Belarus. When we read, for example, of the young Turkish lawyer Ebru Timtik, who protested against his arrest and demanded a fair trial, who died after 238 days of hunger strike; or when we see women in Belarus, who continue to be repressed while peacefully demonstrating against the recent blatant electoral fraud; when we learn of such news, we cannot simply express concern at the growing tensions in the eastern Mediterranean or Minsk or the resumption of the conflicts in Nagorno-Karabakh. Similarly, we cannot simply show a duty of solidarity with Greece or Cyprus for the provocative activities of drilling and attacking Greek ships by Turkey, as happened just a few hours ago, again. In view of the quality of these abuses, we as the European Union cannot turn to the other side. Europe is the largest area of protection of rights and commitment to peace and the stabilisation of peoples. On the one hand, if we are very pleased that the Council of Foreign Ministers decided yesterday to introduce sanctions against both Belarus and Russia, thanks to the agreements that have been reached, which will be ratified tomorrow by the European Council, at the same time, we believe that it is time to begin a thorough reflection on the position that the European Union should take in relation to countries which are stagnating in anti-democratic policies, in violation of the rules of international law. This, regardless of whether all Member States are in favour of it. We believe that it is positive and that President von der Leyen's proposal for a Magnitsky Act should be supported, that is to say a mechanism that removes the European capitals from the right to put vetoes to the European Union on foreign policy issues, introducing the possibility of a qualified majority decision, so as to offer greater flexibility to the Commission in imposing sanctions on certain countries in the event of human rights violations. Like Italy Viva, Mr President, we are convinced that the future of Italy is strongly anchored in Europe; a Europe that we want even more ambitious, more courageous; a Europe that can also say that rights come first and not after economic conveniences. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u147	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u148	Mr President, Mr Conte, the crisis linked to the Covid has shown that the European Union, solidarity and the Union are just a lot of fine words: while we were implementing lockdown, theoretically our allies blocked the borders with the stones; others were insulting Italy; dear President, many, when the emergency seemed to concern only us, tried to take away market shares from us (I think, for example, what happened in the agri-food sector). Many even foreshadowed to enter our economy with tense leg, trying to fit into some Italian dynamics and foretelling the possibility of conquering our family jewels. Today I believe that we must not forget this and you must not forget it. We must not forget the thousands of businesses and VAT matches that are still struggling to save their jobs and destinies and that all too often appear abandoned to themselves. Dear President, today is the time to raise your head, if you can. We must defend Italy, its interests and its future. We are very critical of the European Union. Being critical seems a paradox; it seems so easy, yet it seems to me that, every time, it is as if we were to shout at the scandal and explain it to everyone. Being critical of the European Union does not mean being anti-European. We are in love with the very idea of Europe; no one is more pro-European than we are. Europe, with its five thousand years of history, is not young, but millennial. I see Senator Renzi laughing. The European Union is young, while Europe is an immense thing, which is lost in the night of time; it is our polar star. His heart I think beat a second when, for example, Giorgia Meloni with her courage managed to become president, the only Italian woman, of a European Group. I believe that in Europe we Italians have the right to stand as protagonists. I think that to be respected it is not necessary to go with the saucer in hand as we were waiters, which is a noble profession, waiting for a tip and hoping for the benevolence of Berlin, Paris and Beijing. Dear President, in our Europe and in our Italy there is no idea of the control of Italian houses. That is the Soviet Union or East Germany; it is the Stasi. It is not our Europe; it is not our Italy. President Conte, freedom is like dignity: when you lose it, it is difficult to regain it. We are aware that common protocols must be implemented to combat pandemics, precisely in order to deal more quickly and effectively with the Covid and to guarantee the common market, which for a nation voted for export as ours is fundamental. It is not necessary to be Greta to understand that the environment is the primary objective, but that it must marry with policies to safeguard jobs and combat unfair competition. Let me explain to you in Brussels that Italy is invaded by products with ridiculous costs, because they are made without respecting our environmental standards, and therefore, on the one hand, they pollute the planet and, on the other hand, they shut down our companies, unable to contain production costs. That is why we need to speed up the introduction of carbon tax, rebalance international competition with countries exporting products to the EU market without meeting our environmental and quality standards. The introduction of plastic tax must be postponed for two years, encouraging the conversion of our companies and the same applies to the application of the emission trading system (ETS) to the air and maritime transport sectors, already strongly tested by the crisis Covid. If we don't help the producer today, we'll find a nation where we probably won't have plants in our cities anymore. Plants will no longer grow in the flowerbeds of our closed shops, but will be watered by the tears of despair of those who no longer have a job. Defending our land means increasing funds for the prevention of hydrogeological failure and seismic risk in the coastal region. President Conte, you will have to deal with many issues that our resolution perfectly illustrates, but above all you will have to go to Europe with your head up. A nation like Italy needs to carry out pre-entry control without the flows being blocked in Libya or at the beginning of the Balkan route. If we don't stop the departures, the migrants will all come here and stay here. I know that this is the desire of a large part of its majority, but it is certainly not the interest of Italy and the Italians. People die at sea not because of Visegrad or the bad sovereigns, but because of the interests of the merchants of men. Europe, or rather the European Union - because they are two distinct things - if it really wants to be united, must intervene directly in Africa, President, in the nations from which migrants leave, threatening and, in case, by cutting funding for cooperation to those states that promote illegal immigration, and above all by carrying out an international mission to prevent departures. To do so, dear President, we need only one instrument. We need - we have said this and we repeat it - the naval blockade, otherwise the real extremists, President, the extremists, the servants of the European Union will be you. We are trying to protect only the interests of the weakest, the Italians, Italy and all the peoples of Europe. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u149	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u150	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, thank you for the punctuality with which you have offered this debate to Parliament today. I must say that I am always very impressed when I listen to some of the speeches by my colleagues in the opposition. In addition, today's tones are rather calm because some of them go from a legitimate request for the opposition's involvement in the decision-making processes to those scenes of jubilation that we have witnessed - and we would have liked not to attend - a few days ago, when in the Chamber of Deputies, the opposition colleagues themselves celebrated for the absence of the quorum following a vote on a measure that concerned the health and safety of Italians. There is this point that must be dissolved, probably, by the opposition and that does not reconcile with the tones that should be consonant with a phase such as the one we are living and that must have at heart the theme of responsibility. Mr President, there is also an issue that concerns us, the majority that supports your Government, because these have been very difficult months, in which some rhetoric has also been wasted, and I do not say so in the negative sense. Often rhetoric, which is part of the representation of politics, can serve us and not only us to approach the world with greater determination as we would like it to be. I think of that phrase that is often echoed in the homes of Italians in the darkest and most difficult moment of lockdown, when it was said that everything would go well, or the one that said that from this phase we would come out better. You see, President, rhetoric is good, often, but politics has an extra responsibility and an extra duty, which is that of truth. We, as a majority supporting this Government, think we should take responsibility for telling the truth to the country. I am talking - for example - about the truth written in the numbers that have been mentioned in the course of the debate and which we are discussing in the last few days. I am referring to the numbers contained in the Update Note that talk to us about a very heavy macroeconomic framework, a 9 per cent reduction in gross domestic product just to be in progress this year. But the truth is also contained within the folds of those numbers. We must tell the Italians that that thunder risks impacting in an unfair way on all the segments of our society and can produce a dynamic through which they risk to intensify and deepen those furrows that pre-existed to the pandemic and that have to do with inequalities that are not simply of census, but between generations, categories of workers and economic and social areas. Therefore, our debate on recovery funds and recovery plans must go in exactly that direction, that is to say, first of all, the objective of reducing those inequalities. For me it is worth three elements - not having much time available to me to mention these, even if many others could be mentioned - which are part of the somewhat curious debate in this country. As for the first, I see a number of posters on the public scene that I consider ideological. I am thinking of the one packaged by the largest industrial organization in our country, which we respect, because we must respect all the organizations that represent the legitimate interests of this country, as well as the enterprises that generate well-being and employment. However, we must be aware of our role. I read that the exit from the crisis can only be determined if we imagine a non-increase in wage levels, rather than an easy lay-off mechanism or a piece of welfare is put into business bargaining. I also hear words that go in the direction of a reduction in tax controls or of what, kindly, is called deregulation, which, then, in the end, means essentially to free us from laces and laces. Mr President, when I hear all these things, I think of exactly what we should not follow or do. And I say that because we are and must be something else, with respect for the parties. We must represent another idea of development and society, in full respect of the legitimate interests of those who do business in this country. Secondly, a very sensitive debate must be addressed. Here I have listened to important words: we must be those of digitalization; we must be those who approach social justice climate justice: this expression, made by the girls and boys of the Fridays for Future who, in this historical phase, are fighting climate change. That is all right; it is precisely the guidelines contained in the package of proposals that we must present and the tracks that we must follow. However, Mr President, this presents us with an enormous element of fragility if we do not accompany it to the great issue of gender equality. To say this he is a man not because women cannot do what they have historically done, that is, to fight for their rights and their emancipation, but because we do not get out of it if men and women do not do this battle together. Let us avoid that the issue of gender equality is simply a chapter of our proposals and not the unifying element of the project that we are putting in place. I think this should be an important distinguishing feature. Finally, Mr President, there is a big issue, which we always sum up in this way: we have a great opportunity represented by the EUR 209 billion to be put in place. However, it has not been long since we were represented as the country that struggled - for example - to spend the structural funds. Of course, we have made some very important progress. However, I want to say, Mr President, that there is no planning and executive capacity that does not go through the possibility of re-orienting the public administration with a major investment plan and, above all, with a large recruitment plan in the public administration, to put skills and professionalism back into circulation and in that system. President Conte, ours becomes a great lost opportunity. There is a very beautiful exhibition, which I recommend you to visit, in Gallarate, at the museum of contemporary art. These are the installations of a young artist, Marzia Migliora. The exhibition is called "The Spectre of Malthus." Malthus was a demographer economist who, at the end of the 18th century - so we are talking about more than two centuries ago - reasoned, with a great intuition, about the unsustainable relationship between demographic growth and food and agricultural production. Already then he spoke of the fact that this insustainability produced famines and pandemics. He spoke of this very thing, and even reasoned that, in order to prevent millions of people from being marginalized, a subsistence wage was needed. I say this, Mr President, because when we do our things, with ambition, we must always remember that we are dwarves on the shoulders of giants. We must imagine, in the coming months and years, doing something that has often not been done, in the most recent past and in the farthest past: performing a function and doing so by trying to anticipate the processes and not to undergo them. If we do this, in fact, we will be able to carry out this function and, perhaps, we will also have left a mark within this historical passage. Thank you, President Conte, for your work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u151	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u152	Mr President, it may surprise you that tomorrow the European Council, in addition to examining the epidemiological situation in the countries of the European Union, on which the President-in-Office of the Council spoke earlier, will also discuss the climate, Brexit and Africa. It is singular, because Africa, Brexit and climate seem too distant to be discussed at the same time; but it is also unique because, in the midst of the Covid-19 emergency and its health, economic and social consequences, one can well think that the priorities are others. On the other hand, the European Council's agenda is dramatically topical and puts us in front of major universal issues, which are very hot for Europe and Italy. And that is where I shall now say a few words. There is a political thread, strong and clearly visible, linking the climate, Africa and Brexit. Three factors that, to varying degrees, undermine the stability of the Planet, which is our most precious asset and our greatest guarantee of economic development, civil progress and even peace in the world. The little time we have left for this debate today, I say to the President of the Senate, is a clear political signal. It points to the modest position in our parliamentary hierarchy of issues such as climate change, Africa and Brexit. The Senate is no longer accustomed to major debates on issues that shake the world. Trump's policies, the role of Merkel in Europe, the climate, China's advance, the axis of the world moving from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the crisis of democracy and the expansion of authoritarian regimes. These are themes that will affect the next few decades and that are discussed elsewhere, never here in the Senate. In the minutes I've been allowed, I'm just gonna make some political considerations. In particular, I want to highlight the relationship that connects the showy backwardness of the planet's environmental balances with Africa and Brexit and that can be summarized as follows: their contribution to the destabilisation of the world is very important, so much so as to put at risk even the most precious asset we have, peace. Political, economic and social stability is the best guarantee of peace, while instability increases international tensions and eventually can lead to war, as is happening between Azerbaijani and Armenians for Nagorno-Karabakh, with behind the shadow of Russia and Turkey. Or as could happen in the Aegean Sea, a stone's throw from Italy, following tensions between Turkey (always Turkey) and Greece. It is enough to increase the earth's temperature by a few degrees to make life impossible in immense parts of sub-Saharan Africa, to cause violent breaks between the nations of those regions and to push entire populations to the North of the world and to Europe, without any force and any of our laws being able to stop them. They are women and men fleeing from certain death. What this means in terms of the instability of the planet, Europe is learning it day after day. It was the political changes of North Africa that brought the Turkish and Russian military fleets first to Syria and then to the Central Mediterranean, radically changing the political and military balances in a sea on which much of Europe's peace depends. It is the instability of sub-Saharan Africa that is added to the instability of North Africa. But let's move on. Brexit has deprived the European Union of one of its most important members, with military force and atomic weapon. The Brexit and the weakening of NATO at Trump's hands have opened a very deep wound in Europe's security system, even aggravated by European hesitations over Albania and Macedonia. The world is experiencing a huge health crisis and to contain it Italy is investing public resources above our possibilities. But this must not distract us from our underlying problems. Italy has long been plunged into a deep system crisis, a structural crisis that primarily affects our constitutional system, the very structures of parliamentary democracy and affects the productive world and society. And it is very difficult to govern the consequences of unforeseen and uncontrollable events such as the Covid-19 with a lost public system, without solid points of reference. However, the European Council's agenda tells us that the system crisis is far wider than Italy; it is a system crisis that even affects Europe, which seventeen years ago lost the opportunity to give itself a Constitution that would have laid the foundations for a true political union. And it is also a system crisis that makes the world order increasingly fragile, which after Yalta has no longer found a balance point. In this context, the fear that peace may also break is not a hollow thought. When historians describe the time we are living, they will not only speak of scientific progress and great transformations, but also of our indecisions, which, due to neglect or cowardice, are putting at risk much of the balance of peace and well-being that had been laboriously achieved. We had hoped that Brexit would be defeated in the referendum; today we are afraid of indifference to climate change and we are concerned about Europe's detached attitude towards Africa's evolution and the changing balance of the Mediterranean. We do not like that Trump considers the defence of Europe a burden for America and our economy a nuisance for the American markets, to be put in line with any means, including duties. All these factors shake the stability of the planet and have real consequences for the security of large parts of the world, including Europe, which has enjoyed seventy-five years of peace precisely because of that stability that has cracked today. The issue that the European Council's agenda implies is precisely that of the progressive destabilisation of the world order and the resulting dangers to world peace. Hence the urgent need to reopen a serious reflection on Europe's defence, knowing that when we finally achieve a true common defence of Europe, we will also have achieved a stronger political union and greater integration of the European continent. Italy repudiates war and works to ensure peace: in this spirit, in recent decades, the commitment to peace of the Italian armed forces has allowed Italian soldiers on a mission in the world to face daily situations at high risk and to achieve more efficiency, more modern vision and greater integration with colleagues from other nations. But that is not enough, because even Germany and France, which are two weighty countries, have on their own a military apparatus capable of guaranteeing European defence. I have gone a long way, Mr President, but it is necessary to say that the establishment of real European armed forces is an increasingly topical issue and that it is precisely the European Council that is the place where this issue can be put. Europe can no longer afford to neglect its defence needs. He can't do it at all, and he can't do it at such an indeterminate and confusing stage as the one the world is going through. I would therefore ask the President-in-Office of the Council to go to the European Council to remind us of Africa, the climate, Brexit, Azerbaijan, the Armenians and Nagorno-Karabakh, Albania and Macedonia, not to mention the dozens of regional or local wars taking place in the world and the trade wars and the technological primacy. All this tells us that we live a time of great instability, a difficult time, very aggressive, in which we need a long view and we need to know how to see the future. If we want peace, the defence of Europe must become a priority commitment of the Union and of all Europeans. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u153	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u154	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we voted this afternoon on a document setting out guidelines for the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. And then, at the head: Next generation EU. The fact is that today, when it comes to resilience, it has become common use to add to the word an adjective that connotes its meaning in a very specific way, because otherwise resilience could simply mean resistance or survival. Instead, next to the term "resilience" we use the new adjectivation that is "transformative." Little by little we would need a resilience that would only aim to make us stand up to face the situation, if we did not have at the same time also intellectual, moral and physical energy, translated also in terms of proposal and planning and able to change things. This is perhaps what we are trying to understand at this particular moment for the country, because we are - on the one hand - in a situation of deadlock compared to the emergency Covid and - on the other - in a situation of risk. I know that four possible scenarios have been drawn, one of which is the worsening of the current situation, the closures and the worsening of the economic situation. However, there is a need to deal with all the possible situations that could crush the perspective before us, not only and not so much for us, but objectively for the new generations. When we talk about the operation that we are doing, we all know with great awareness that it is a debt operation, placed on the shoulders of the new generations, which today would have the right to obtain a surplus of training, opportunity and responsibility. [[Applause]] and that they should be told: that is who will receive tomorrow the witness of the choices we are making at this time. In the overall draft guidelines that you will discuss tomorrow in Brussels, there is certainly one part that is impossible not to share, and that is all that refers to research. In particular, perhaps, the experience of Covid has highlighted dramatically plastic that there can be no assistance without research. I would like to remind you, with a hint of malice, that even the large No Vax electoral campaign, of the majority party in this House, is now known as intensive research by everyone for vaccines. [[Applause]] In their denunciation it was said that vaccines do harm and harm, but today they become the horizon of meaning and hope of all of us and for this reason an extraordinary scientific research is mobilized. Mr President, I wonder how much we invest in research and how much we invest today in that independent research that is often done in universities and scientific societies. Of course, there is the research of pharmaceutical companies, which is important, strong, determined to an objective of value, but also a very strong economic return. We are asked to make an important investment that favours the new generations. The Next generation EU should begin today, and not only with that operation, all in all positive, even if it is absolutely blocked - as you know better than I do - with the block of graduations of medical specialization schools, all stopped because of appeals. That investment that has been made, in terms of grants and specialization schools, was multiplied in an investment in research doctorates, in objective opportunities, so that young talents know that we believe that they are really able to take the country into their hands and that they are able to do so by virtue of study, research and talents and not only by virtue of opposition, protest, that attitude sometimes a little sloppy of those who take the burden of criticizing what the previous generation has done, but they do not know how to challenge themselves in their commitment to value. So, back to the Horizon 2020 programme, the extraordinary investment is well coming, but I am concerned that it is really coming to an end. So what can we promise those young people? We really have a moral obligation to avoid the mistake made at the beginning of the parliamentary term, of which everyone is aware today, linked to that income of citizenship, which makes us feel ridiculous. [[Applause]] Every night on television there is an entrepreneur who says that his company is developing, has a series of orders and can carry on a project, but lacks the people who work. What happened to those navigators who were supposed to be the bridge between skills, desire to work, youth, energy, talent, innovations and practical opportunities for work? Where did they go? Every night, on television, you wonder where the navigators are. But did you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, or the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, who is considered the mother of the measure, summon the navigators? Ask what they do? At least there should be a bulletin board: imagine if every entrepreneur who intervenes in the evening television program had a bulletin board available to the Ministry, with all the opportunities available. It's not like that. That is the second problem. The first problem concerns research and the second problem young people, but they are not disjoint problems, because it is in the creative intelligence of young people that research finds the possibility - as is said today - to breathe in two lungs. The third issue, since my time is running out, even if you would never stop dealing with these problems, concerns the reference you made to a singular triad of factors: person, environment and then - as you said - prosperity. Well: the idea that the person is at the center and that therefore an ecology of the human person precedes the vision of the ecology of the environment and really considers the environment as an expression - on the one hand - of the context in which the human person lives to improve the quality of life and - on the other - precisely in the action of care. This should be the premise, at least in his words, of a proposal for prosperity which - see the case - could also cause gross domestic product to rise. However, we know that this is not the case; we know that in the person we have invested little as much as in the environment, as shown by the great experience of the hydrogeological failure of recent days. Since time is over, I only make one last joke. Mr President, you know that working together means not only listening and performing, but also designing together and evaluating together. It is another two stages of the trial that it would be worth taking more account of. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u155	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u156	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when your report began, I found myself a little dismayed: I thought it had gone off the subject by talking about the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. I went to see again the agenda for the next European Council, where we are talking about Covid-19, Europe-United Kingdom relations, climate change, relations with Africa; then, in the end, you too arrived, but there I thought they had given you the wrong piece of paper, something that happens every now and then. It happened also in the previous legislature, when you came to the Chamber to defend the strange concept that the gold of the Bank of Italy did not belong to the Italian State. By the way, those who wrote those leaflets yesterday came to the hearing to explain to us that the European Central Bank buys securities by creating money and, therefore, the 500 billion new additions to the pandemic emergency plan were created with a click. That's it. The political question remains as to why, instead of 500, 5000 have not been created. I am only telling you this because you mentioned scarce resources just now. But that wasn't the theme I wanted to draw your attention to. You see, President Conte, after our last meeting of one hundred and seventy-five days ago, on 21 April, in which I happened to ask for his resignation, I wondered for days if my vehementness was justified, if I had not let myself be carried away by the heat of speech, if my assessment - obviously here must be political and cannot be personal - had not been polluted by the bitterness and personal disappointment, a disappointment which, as far as I am concerned, is justified from my point of view and which, of course, can be fully reciprocated by you. In politics we must always leave an open window to doubt, a way of escape to the opponent; we should remain cold, not rely on instinct, but, among the many reasons for gratitude I have for him, there is also that of raising me from the weight of this doubt, because ex post my request has proved perfectly justified. When we asked for your resignation, you had not yet denied - in front of the magistrates of Bergamo - that you had seen the minutes of the technical-scientific committee that advised to close in a red zone the municipalities of Alzano Lombardo and Nembro. He would then do it on June 12, when he denied having seen them, but on August 7 - surprise! - after the partial descretation of the committee's minutes, you yourself confessed not only that you had read those pages, but that you asked for specific details on them. So, she knew about the danger but she didn't act, or rather acted late, and probably overreacted. We're talking about Covid-19, because you reminded us that the country is a leader in the pandemic emergency, and so let's see how we were a leader. We start from that weekend when - as we remember - his communication staff, in the desire to make it appear in full control of the situation, managed only to achieve the result of unleashing the panic, in a turn of press conferences and drafts sent by Palazzo Chigi - she denied, the journalists confirmed - that triggered the exodus from Lombardy. It was perhaps this clumsy management, all played on communication, that then forced the drastic lockdown measure throughout the national territory. In fact, at the time there was the suspicion - we have now forgotten - that the disordered flight from Lombardy, caused by its crisis management, had spread the virus everywhere. It was not the first time, however, that his inertia put us in danger. Also after the descretation of the minutes, we learned that on 12 February, three days after the unfortunate spots of the Presidency of the Council, according to which the contagion was not at all easy, you received a study by epidemiologist Stefano Merler, researcher of the Bruno Kessler Foundation, according to which the Covid-19 could have caused between 35,000 and 60,000 deaths, that study on which Mr Molinari would then ask you for clarification on 22 April and of which it was known that it had not been diffused so as not to trigger panic. While avoiding panic, however, there was no preparation. It was you, not others, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who were interviewed by Mrs Gruber on 27 January: 'We are very ready, but the first Council ban on the purchase of medical equipment was completed on 10 March, in a largely acclaimed emergency. [[Applause.]] I save the story of all the successive failures of police management; failures that will of course be rewarded with prestigious assignments. But the situation is even worse than this, because not only was it not prepared; after having had the full awareness of the risks that the country was running - risks that then materialized with discreet precision, to the honor of the researcher who had predicted them - his concern was on February 15 to send 18 tons of medical material to China [[Applause]] , because we are good, indeed more: we are politically correct and, in fact, we call Spanish, but Chinese we call it Covid-19. I would like to add that on 21 April, the last time we saw each other, I could not know that that intolerable forced force, consisting in the administrative act of having constitutional rights subject to a statutory reservation and a judicial reserve, which we were then among the first to denounce, would be prolonged in excess. I didn't know, I couldn't know, and I couldn't even imagine - none of us could have imagined - that you would take over and keep your full powers, of course under the blessings of the European Union, always ready to cramp the Orban discolo, the Polish restless, but singularly changes on the forcings of the rule of law that your Government tries to get used to. [[Applause]] Yet, even voices not only authoritative, but in principle to you and this ideologically close majority, such as that of Professor Cassese, have clarified this authoritatively; it is difficult to justify an extension of the state of emergency in the absence of an emergency. So things are worse than we could have seen on April 21; only a profound authoritarian vocation that unfolds without any counterweight can justify such measures. So thank you for taking a load off me. My request was perfectly justified, beyond what I could imagine and remains on the table. You are an obstacle not only to economic recovery, but also to the physical safety of the inhabitants of the country, which will not be safe as long as you remain where you are. But we must all thank you for something else: for making us understand how a true leader must behave. Now that digital is in fashion - forgive me if I remind you of the old times of the analog photo - you are somehow the negative of a leader. Just read backwards what you did. Do we want to talk about your incurable "announcements"? The Italians waited for facts, they waited for what in the managerial language is called 'execution, they did not even have the brioches of fausta memory, but simply the announcement of the brioche: decree-laws without implementing decrees, measures made to get in the way of each other. However, it is another quality of his that has struck us from the beginning: his congenital inability to assume, being in command position, the responsibilities of his choices, starting from the 24th of February when he accused the hospital of Codogno, with reckless and cowardly words [[Applause]] that served to spread throughout the world the false idea that the anointer was Italy and that motivated, for all thanks of the self-denial of the health personnel, the opening of an inquiry of the NAS. This was his method: to hide behind the technical-scientific committee, although this has not always given good proof of itself. Do we want to talk about when on April 28, an exact week after our last brief, but passionate meeting, the technical-scientific committee expected 150,000 intensive care admissions in June in case of reopening? Do we remember this particularly good prediction? And here a problem actually arises. If you have hidden - as you have hidden - essential information not to cause panic, then why has all your communication on the subject been confused, hysterical, contradictory, inconsistent? Since that weekend on 23 February, when you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, were setting up the first red areas, you were moving from one television broadcast to another with extreme ease, to appear as the man of providence, with the only result of amplifying the fears of the population, without contributing or wishing to inform it correctly. Everything is in fact confused and veiledly terrorist in the way we are informed, starting from the emphasis placed on the concept of chance. A case in medicine usually indicates a sick person: a case of measles is one that has taken measles; but today it indicates mostly a healthy carrier, on whose contagiousness the scientific debate expresses doubts, while the talk shows pass of certainty in certainty. After all, we are in the country that considered the bodies contagious: we all remember that autopsies were forbidden. [[Applause]] Yet, among the many doubts that you can have, one thing we can be sure: the corpses do not breathe and it is therefore difficult for them to transmit a disease that, notoriously, risks being transmitted by air, with - I tell you in English so follows - the droplets. How many deaths are due to the refusal to investigate in scientific terms the study of the disease and the cremations disposed in haste and fury without even questioning relatives? In this management we are softened everywhere by the licking of paternalism. There is even a member of the technical-scientific committee who seems to have said - I hope not, I wasn't there when he said it, but I read it in a newspaper, so I believe it to a certain extent - that the obligation to wear the mask outdoors is a reminder; no matter whether it makes sense or not, because it is a signal of attention for ourselves and for the community. I mean, there's a technical-scientific committee asking us to do things that don't matter if they make sense. And this is the tool that you have authorized to discharge your responsibilities. The experts' catastrophic predictions followed each other, amplified by the media, while the only correct prediction had gone unheard. To those who, bewildered by this round of contradictions - mask yes, no, perhaps, lockdown yes, total, partial, no - dared bring into the scientific debate that fertile element, that truly scientific element that is doubt, is opposed with a disgusting contempt for the memory of the Shoah [[Applause]] , a contempt worthy of the worst anti-Semitic scum, the term of negator. [[Applause]] As if anyone wondering what is the usefulness of wearing the mask in an isolated place is comparable to those who deny that there has been the Holocaust. A "reductio ad Hitlerum" that says a lot about the relationship between PD and science: not a place of doubt and research, but a tool for an authoritarian management of the debate; a baton in the hands of an intrinsically repressive power. The PD would not be with Galileo today, but with Roberto B, where the B is not for Burioni but for Bellarmino. This is the science that is leading us into so difficult and behind which she hides: the science of the Holy Inquisition, the choice of the geocentric universe, today "PDcentric." The few certain things about this epidemic I learned from my mother: wash your hands, do not sneeze in the face of those in front of you; the normal and basic standards of hygiene. Honestly, I must say, with all due respect, that I do not need - at least I - to be reminded of them by an illustrious doctor - or something like that - Ethiopian, with all the respect I have for that country of long civilization. Here in the Zuccari room we have the meeting between the Queen of Sheba and Solomon, which happened three hundred years before this city was founded, when it was all country here. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a few days ago Mr Sgarbi appealed to you for incisiveness and sincerity. I advise you to reflect on your words. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u157	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u158	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there are many issues at the next European Council, but before we go into detail and analyse some of them, I would like to make a brief premise. Over the past few weeks, because of the referendum campaign, I have turned a lot and I wanted to bring back the sense of affection and gratitude that I have found in many citizens towards him, for the seriousness and humanity with which he is managing this extremely delicate phase for our country. Many have asked me to offer you a heartfelt thank you and the invitation to move forward. [[Applause]] , pursuing this path of political change for our country. To these thanks and to this confidence we associate myself and all the Group of Movimento 5 Stars to the Senate [[Applause]] One of the topics to be addressed by the European Council is the relaunching of the partnership between the European Union and Africa on trade, development cooperation, security and the management of migration flows. The Cotonou Agreement, which has been contributing to the fight against poverty for 20 years, needs to be renewed. This is also an important agreement for the management of migration flows, as it works to improve conditions in countries of origin and transit, facilitates legal channels of migration and the repatriation of irregulars. The joint strategy between Africa and the European Union aimed at strengthening political cooperation between the European Union and the African Union, whose regular action plans stopped in 2017. The same need for revival applies to all three regional strategies, the Horn of Africa, the Gulf of Guinea and the Sahel. The latter is particularly important because it has as its main objectives the prevention and combating of radicalisation and the creation of appropriate conditions for young people, migration, mobility and border management, the fight against illicit trafficking and transnational organised crime. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have shown that you have a vision and a capacity for analysis that is not permeated by the current short thinking, the son of a liquid society, which is aimed only at an ephemeral and immediate consensus. Allow me, therefore, to give a critical thought. All these important common European initiatives must necessarily be accompanied by a Copernican revolution in the economic and financial relations between Europe and Africa, because I consider it unnecessary to cooperate on development with one hand if with the other we continue to tolerate forms of neocolonialism and predatory exploitation of the natural, financial and human resources of the African continent. I am not just talking about certain European multinationals that are plundering, polluting and impoverishing the lands and peoples of Africa, doing business with corrupt regimes or even worse by selling them weapons that fuel wars and humanitarian crises. I am also thinking of the European tax havens, where these corrupt African rulers hide almost a third of the wealth of the African continent, a theft that - I quote data from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development and the United Nations Organization - every year takes away from the African tax between 50 and 100 billion dollars, that is the equivalent or twice the annual value of all international development aid that arrives in Africa. With one hand he gives himself and with the other he steals the future to the African peoples. Europe must change radically in this respect too, honouring its deep ethical and humanistic roots. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at the next European Council there will be another subject which I personally consider to be extremely important and which is closely linked to the migration issue. I am referring to climate change caused by an unsustainable development model that creates pollution in our cities and that, in countries already experienced by poverty, causes desertification and other extreme climate phenomena that generate new flows of climate migrants. An ecological conversion based on a cultural revolution indispensable to preserve our country is a political imperative that cannot be postponed. We live on a planet with limited resources and it is also the time we have to intervene before it is too late. This government has already done so much: I am thinking of the bill saves the sea, the stop to drills, ecobonus and incentives to sustainable mobility. We are doing our part, but these global phenomena need global responses. So today more than ever, in the current historical context, Europe represents the most concrete possibility of modifying this paradigm that is likely to lead us to collapse. This is why the European green deal is a top priority, even taking into account the enormous employment and technological repercussions that this change could bring about. I am beginning to conclude by saying with conviction that you and your ministers in Europe are doing unprecedented work. You are converting a paradigm that had transformed the Community's dream of a Europe of peoples into a Darwinist nightmare. His political and diplomatic intelligence with our European partners has brought unprecedented results, unlike those who think they can get something by howling or childish threats. The 209 billion euros awarded - other than arithmetic calculation, as has been said! - are the result of intense work, I would say Carthusian, and represent a fundamental result for the future of our country, so wounded by the virus. But now, Mr President, we must continue to pursue the path of community sharing and sense. To think that we can solve everything with the becero nationalism, which we have also heard in previous speeches, is only shortsighted politics, which inevitably leads us to fall into a deep precipice. To counter these drifts they serve, instead, a healthy patriotism, farsightedness and ability to fly high; an objective that we can only achieve by freeing ourselves from zavorre such as ignorance, fear and that swindling mentality, which even in this difficult time we have seen staying in certain administrators. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I should like to end by wishing you good work, by renewing your call to move forward and by hoping that you will be able to bring this spirit of change to the next European Council. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u159	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u160	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u162	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we are unifying the resolutions tabled by the three centre-right groups and are therefore withdrawing those tabled separately. It is precisely in these seconds that we are drawing up the final text, so I would ask you to allow a short suspension, so that we can have the text of the unitary resolution materially.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u163	All right, Senator. We'll suspend the session for five minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 7.26 p.m. and resumed at 7.31 p.m.) I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and No 2 by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. The lyrics are in distribution. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Conte, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u164	Mr President, I do not take advantage of the option of replying, and I merely give a favourable opinion, on behalf of the Government, on the motion for a resolution by the majority and against, on the other hand, the motion for a resolution by the opposition.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u165	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u168	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you referred to three ps (people, planet and prosperity). I do not mind accepting the challenge from this point of view because it is three connected and vital issues. Colleagues, as far as people are concerned, are developing a terrible sense of insecurity among people. I am talking about economic insecurity and prospects. I think of how insecurity is developing among our young people because that relationship between the generations that saw parents confident that their children would have a better standard of living than their own. This certainty has cracked, this balance, this generational progression have cracked and today there is deep distrust towards the future. Climate rhymes with pandemic. No one would seriously have thought, in these years, that we would all manifest ourselves so vulnerable in front of the pandemic. Attention: the young people tell us and the big organizations tell us. Today I had a meeting with the children of One, a European NGO who cares about the environment. Let us be careful because the issue of the environment risks being another great pandemic that we will not be able to govern because we risk finding ourselves and manifesting ourselves helpless and it is not true that the signals have not arrived. They're already here. Just think of the ever more frequent floods that do not happen only in Italy, where we have problems such as soil protection and the abandonment of rural land. No, this is a big issue that concerns even the most advanced countries. Think of the great floods that upset, for example, the United States of America. Finally, the issue of prosperity, Mr President, I would like to link it to another issue concerning international rules, because at the heart of the European Council there will be some issues concerning the international set-up of rules that are fundamental. You will deal with the wars by proxy that are unfortunately breaking out in today's world. Wars by proxy exist and exist in Libya, where the real players are Turkey, Russia and Gulf countries and where we risk being spectators. Colleagues of the opposition, I tell you clearly: not the Conte Government risks being a spectator; it risks being a spectator of the whole of Europe because we, today, have in the Mediterranean a reality completely different from what we have lived all these years. But there is a red thread that unites everything: Russia has returned to the Mediterranean; Russia and Turkey are today the players in the Syrian affair. Russia and Turkey are the players in the Libyan affair. We have Turkey calling into question the possibility of oil explorations in the territorial waters of Cyprus using Northern Cyprus. These are immense things and before them we cannot shake our shoulders and pretend to believe that the problem is the Count Government that is not particularly effective. It's not like that. It is Europe that risks being a spectator in front of its own courtyard, and we, of course, are the force ahead, the country that is geographically ahead. As they say, the neighbors do not choose but find themselves. The real problem isn't this or that other government. I want to say to my colleagues in the opposition, that I can be inspired by the same sense of political passion that animates us too, that we are faced with epochal changes that we must govern together, otherwise we will all be completely swept away by a reality that either sees Europe raise its head, or sees sovereignism, the true one, the European one, or at national level we will be completely inconsistent and unable to stem what is happening. [[Applause]] Of course, for the pandemic we need European rules because it is right to play with the same rules and it is right that you should talk about this at the European Council. Then there are the theme of the environment and climate change and that of digitalization that, for a country like ours, can be a great opportunity. We will then have to see the concrete projects that are presented, because on the subject of design we also play our credibility. Colleagues, sometimes one complains that Europe will want to put its eyes on these plans, but let us be honest with each other: it is not a bad thing that there is some kind of conditionality, because this money cannot be thrown out of the window, nor wasted in favour of welfare measures that, however, do not even do assistance, but disembodi the country. These resources must be channelled into some element capable of restarting the machine of Italian productivity and growth, because it is from this point of view that we are lacking. And here comes the question of the ESM which, in my opinion, honestly, Senator Monti raised with great seriousness. The MES has become a divisive element. Let us try to make a sort of pact, precisely because we must develop a serenity among ourselves. I believe that the President-in-Office of the Council has shown balance and seriousness. He is faced with a difficult situation. Colleagues of the opposition, I believe that any man of government is dealing with what European rulers are facing today (i.e. a pandemic of this kind) is tight between situations that are objectively difficult to adjust. In fact, there are, on the one hand, scientists, on the other, technicians and, on the other hand, political needs. Now someone would like to close it all down. I immediately say that if there were another lockdown, Italy would risk having more deaths on different issues than the ones that will produce the Covid. I therefore agree with the government's line of trying to do anything to avoid another lockdown, but it is not easy. Again, it's not easy. Of course, in some circumstances there is a feeling that science or technology is being weakened, but, in a sense, it is also necessary to use science and technology because so much information may escape the political side. So, the situation is complex. I believe that on the ESM we must stick to facts and not ideologies. The ESM can be an indispensable tool for a health system that risks being under pressure in the coming weeks in a way that is still striking. I believe that we must manage this in a completely objective and objective way, beyond what can be our personal, political or party opinions, because today Italy's interest comes first. In this regard, I would like to make another point. There is some agitation in this Senate about the vote that concerns the numbers of the budget deviation. I would like to address my opposition colleagues: I would like a normal country, which is where the dialogue between majority and opposition is real and not fake. The President-in-Office of the Council also has a great responsibility on his shoulders because he cannot consult the opposition just to do so, but he must really involve him in the political processes. I would like an opposition that, if, for example, 10 senators couldn't come because of Covid and there was the quorum problem, would say: we'll take care of it. This is outside political divisions and ends up being an emerging moment. If this is not an emergency, what emergency can be expected? [[Applause]] Colleagues, the Group for the Autonomies will vote in favour of the motion for a resolution signed by the majority of our group leader. However, we are in a condition where, before our personal evaluations, we must try to proceed together. Will we be able to face this challenge? I hope so, partly because I believe that the second half will not be for anyone. The events of history have shown that when, under exceptional conditions, one party has hoped for the evil of the other, in the end it was not this party that took advantage of it. Today, for public opinion and for Italians, we are politics. We are together, majority and opposition, and together we will either overcome this challenge or we will be doomed to succumb. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u171	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President of the Senate, Mr President of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when the Head of Government takes part in the European Council, he takes with him the whole country, not the government, not the majority, not his party. From this point of view, I think that, today more than ever, it is right that the Senate wishes the President of the Council good work, entrusting him with the desires, dreams, worries of many women and men, nurses who have the sign of the mask for months, cashiers who have never closed, grandparents who are afraid to embrace their grandchildren, restaurateurs who are struggling because, after reopening and having made a July and August maybe not negative, today they have again the spectre of closure. I would, however, like you to bring, Mr President, even small and great stories. There's one I'd like to hand over, which I'd like to hand over. It is the story of a boy born in October 1920, the fifth child of a poor family of farmers; a boy who decides to study or, better, who has parents who have him studied in 1920. He gets passionate about chemistry, graduates very young in pharmacy and opens a small company, a company, as they called it from his side, with two or three employees. He works, ironically of the fate, in the field of vaccines, of the Italian tubercular vaccine. He grows, grows and reaches international acquisitions. It becomes a point of reference, so much so that, at ninety-five years, five years ago, Marino Golinelli, this his name, decides to found an opificio with the name Opus 2065. I bring you the history of Marino Golinelli, which you surely know because Marino Golinelli turned 100 last Sunday and when I heard him spoke to me about the future, like those patriarchs who, when they arrive at old age, still decide to plant an olive tree, because it is the sign of a passion for knowledge, innovation and culture. These are the characteristics of the factory, which is based in Bologna. Take with you, Mr President, the example of Marino Golinelli to Europe. In other countries, they would dedicate TV series and statues to him even alive. We would simply like to take a little bit of its energy, its enthusiasm and that passion for science that, from different sectors, Senator Cattaneo and Senator Binetti have remembered as central. I join their words, where they recalled the importance of the Amaldi plan or where they stressed the need to overcome the problem of the training funnel of medical students. The point, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that there is a turning point in Europe and you cannot deny it. Before that Europe was that of the "Ce" Europe asks for it. I'm looking at President Monti. He and I were part of a season in which Europe asked for it. It was the claim of every debate at the European Council. The pension reform? Europe is asking us to do that. Labour reform? Europe is asking for it. It wasn't true or partially true, but Europe asked for it, it was the slogan that everyone used. Today, the slogan is "it offers Europe." Europe offers us the financial parachute; Europe offers us recovery funds with EUR 209 billion, which are the last call, because then, for thirty years, there will be no more such an opportunity. Europe offers us the Sure programme for unemployment. I would like to note that this programme was conceived, conceived and wanted five years ago by a minister named Pier Carlo Padoan, to whom my thanks go and my great good luck for many reasons. [[Applause]] Europe is also, Mr President, the one that the ESM offers us. I shared the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs when he said a few days ago that Europe was over 100,000 people. He said that it takes something right away, he said that it immediately takes the recovery fund. We know that the recovery fund will arrive in the second half of 2021 and therefore, if we want something right away, there is the ESM. The words with which we are saying no to the ESM, indeed you are saying no to the ESM, are illogical words. So, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we need an investment in health that leads to personalized medicine, artificial intelligence applied to big data that also invest in medicine, technological innovation that will lead to a revolution in medicine, including on the ground. [[Applause]] It's time to make two appeals here. The first to you, Mr President, in your capacity as head of the majority; the second to the opposition, to a part of the opposition. That of the President-in-Office of the Council: bring together, Mr President, a political table. We are not ashamed of this word, the word 'political', also because today politics is the alternative to two different forms of demagogy: on the one hand an unbridled populism and on the other an algid technocracy that prevents exponents of the public thing from expressing their ideas. Not populist and not technocrate: a political table. We got together on the basis of an emergency and - I told someone - no one expected us to get together, neither did we. We got together on the basis of a request for full powers from the other side, and we said no a year ago. We have said that we will have to elect, in fourteen months' time, a President of the Republic who is on the road of anti-Sovereignism and Europeanism; and we confirm this judgment and this vision. But in these fourteen months a war has broken out and there is a post-war period to be managed. This war and this post-war one are called occupational catastrophe and extraordinary economic recovery. At this point, Mr President, of two o'clock: either we sit around a table and we all understand together how to manage the situation, from here to the end of the parliamentary term, or we will always be in a hurry, unable to have a political look and unfortunately forced to follow the dictatorship of populism or technocracy. But, alongside this, the appeal goes to that part of opposition that is called liberal and non-sovereignist (because either you are liberal or you are sovereign, both are impossible). To that part of the opposition that is called liberal: tomorrow there is an important vote, there are the considerations that the President of the Council made, there are the considerations that President Monti made, there are the considerations that President Casini made. We ask you for a gesture of responsibility for the country; it will be our concern to face and express in this House a vision from here to 2023, but the passage of tomorrow's deviation is too delicate a passage to put at risk not only the government's holding, but also and above all the country's holding. Martin Luther King said: "You may not be responsible for the situation you are in, but you will be, too, if you do nothing to change it." Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have made a very important step on the G20, which perhaps we too have not fully grasped. For the first time in 2021 Italy hosts the G20; it is an epochal fact, because it is the first time that this format is presided over by Italy, when it arrives between the Saudi Presidency and the Indian Presidency, therefore at a very important time. And this G20 will be the first in presence, reasonably, we hope and believe it; we want to work well in this direction. And it is not only the G20 of the President of the Council, with its counterparts Heads of State and Government, but it is the G20 of the individual Ministries, who will be able to guide the world recovery on individual issues with the twenty most important powers. Let's bring the Italian enthusiasm, let's take the look into the Italian future, let's bring those values that Senator Garavini and then Senator Zanda have remembered, where they talked about foreign policy, what is happening in the wars by proxy (so called Casini). Let us take that craving towards the rule of law that the European Union must have, let us take not only that desire to make Italy the leader in the circular economy, as the Premier rightly recalled, but also that strong, beautiful and great look at the sustainability that led us proudly to sign the Paris agreements. Let us take the idea of a country that does not renounce to have in the Mediterranean a place that can call home. We are losing the Mediterranean as "Mare Nostrum" and this is something that had never happened before; we must recover a role. In order to do so, Mr President, I am aware that in the homes of the Italians who are looking at us as a priority today it is not so much the political debate on the G20 or the European Council or the ability to intervene differently on the recovery fund. Today the point in question at home is fear, it is concern; it is the parents who since yesterday ask: It's not like you're closing schools now, is it? Isn't it that you're closing high school now? And we did well to say to the Minister of Education that we will not close schools, because a country that closes schools is a country that has no future. [[Applause]] However, there is a huge problem that we have before us and that we have to deal with: the three stages. The first: the medical emergency is not over, since there are over 500 people in the ICU. The MES also serves to recover resources, but what is needed today and immediately is the awareness that from here to the next two, three, four months the vaccine will finally arrive and this vaccine will also speak Italian, because the research, from Pomezia to Siena, has produced extraordinary results. [[Applause]] Second phase: the first half of 2021 will be dramatic from the point of view of employment. Who says otherwise: it will be an occupational carnage and we will only get out if we give a vision for the next, because if we can say that it is true that we now suffer, but that then as a spring we share and give a horizon to the country, then we expect a decade of amazing growth. Third phase: we need to have a country idea to offer to the recovery fund discussion, because if we put together only a collation of projects, we do not give a future. Talent, merit, quality, beauty, innovation: these are the words of Made in Italy. But, Mr President, you have to run and you are aware of that. We have appreciated her tones and we entrust her with the message that Alessandro Baricco leaves in the Ocean Sea, when the two people talk and she says to him: "Every once in a while I wonder what we are waiting for" And he answers: It's too late, madame. I believe that politics has a priority today: to understand that it is time to plan the future. We also want to do so with the liberal opposition, but we must do so now, because wasting time now would mean losing the greatest opportunity that Italy has had in the last twenty years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u174	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the time we have is little compared to the many points of the debate and also to the report by President Conte. Therefore, I will begin with a comment on the pandemic emergency, because the presence of the President-in-Office of the Council today allows me to tell him what we have tried to say often in this House: when it comes to discussing the fundamental rights of the citizen, we no longer accept that there is only any Minister in this House, even if we have respect for the Ministers: we demand that the President of the Council should come and explain to us why we take those choices and we expect that he should not comment on an administrative act, that is, on a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, but on commenting on a bill or a decree-law on which Parliament is called to intervene to correct it, to improve it or even to reject it if it serves. Because the state of emergency that you have extended and that has no comparison in other countries of Europe is neither an alibi, nor an authorization from the Government to do whatever it wants alone. I would also like to say to the President-in-Office of the Council, to the majority and to the mainstream press that there is no distinction between the evil sovereign and negationist right and the enlightened left. The distinction we make in terms of Covid is certainly not linked to the denial of this emergency, because those who think that Covid does not exist are simply crazy. The distinction is different and it is between those who think Italians are adults and thinkers and those who think Italians are children or subjects to govern with threats and fear. I am referring, Mr President, to Mr Hope's statements, which are usually a very well-balanced and supervised person, who said something very serious, as if he had gone out of his mind, as they say. He said that in our home, in our home, that you can be inviolable, the Government will act through the reports, that they are nothing but delations that bring to our mind the memory of totalitarian regimes, such as that of the Soviet Union or East Germany, in which it was the Stasi that controlled the lives of the citizens. These statements are absolutely incompatible with a democratic and liberal regime and I hope that you, along with Minister Hope, will soon distance yourself from what has been said. [[Applause]] Also because, Mr President, millions of Italians in these months - almost a year has passed - have shown great civic sense, respecting all the laws, ordinances and decrees, those that share and those that do not share, the decrees that work and those that do not work, those that have a meaning and those that do not make any sense, those that last a month and those that last half an hour, because they change them every day creating an incredible confusion. These citizens, however, wonder whether the Government, which imposes all these obligations on them, has done its duty in the last three months. Has the Government, for example, guaranteed the flu vaccine throughout Italy? Did the Government guarantee rapid swabs, so as to avoid queues and long waits throughout Italy? Did the government guarantee the rapid tests, which were carried out in this House a few months ago, in favour of family doctors, schools, businesses and communities? If the answer to all these questions is no, as it certainly is, then put yourself in the shoes of a trader, a bartender, a performer, wondering whether these restrictions on your personal life and professional activity are due to the strength of the pandemic or to the fact that the person who was to act did not act and who was to do something did not. I leave it to you, Mr President, to answer these questions. For me the answer is very clear. I would also like to talk about the recovery fund, which is not on the agenda of the next European Council, but which is certainly the subject of the day, for all the European institutions. We discussed this until a few hours ago in this House and since you are here I would like to tell you directly: the attitude of the Brothers of Italy Group is and will be responsible, we have put some proposals out of the blue, but it is clear that those resources are needed for investment, not for electoral expenditure or current expenditure, such as citizenship income. [[Applause]] That is not a treasure that the Government uses for its own purposes, to strengthen itself or to reward friends of friends, but it serves to rebuild Italy, starting from the earthquake zones that still await a signal. [[Applause]] The recovery fund must be done with clear projects, with certain costs, in certain times and - I add - with the name and surname of a manager, because it must finish this Italian gozzo for which billions are thrown on projects that then do not leave and no one is ever guilty or responsible for anything. To talk about the recovery fund and to talk, as many colleagues have done, about foreign policy, especially in relation to the African continent, which is a few hundred kilometers away, we are very concerned and we are concerned about a serious precedent: that of the President of the Council Renzi, who has just intervened, when that Government bartered a few decimal places of difference between deficit and GDP with the European Commission in exchange for the unconditional green light to the entry of hundreds of thousands of illegal immigrants into our territory. We have the feeling that this film is repeated and that the Government wants to transform Italy again into the refugee camp of Europe. Just put the dots together: I didn't say it but others said it, like Senator Casini: Italy's foreign and military policy in the Mediterranean practically doesn't exist. Every day hundreds and thousands of immigrants come from Tunisia, which is not a country at war, but rather with which we should have strong diplomatic and friendship relations. The NGOs' ships, which collect illegals and immigrants at sea, go to France, which rejects them, and then of course land in Italy. Worse still, you have recently emptied and actually deleted the security decrees and put the concept of humanitarian protection back into circulation. Along with the concept of humanitarian protection the reception business will start again; we know it, you know it too, and you should know it too, President Conte, because the signature on those security decrees that you cancel today is yours. It's his name at the bottom of that decree. [[Applause.]] It was his face that appeared together with that of Minister Salvini the evening that the Council of Ministers voted that decree-law. We then have many reasons for being distant from each other; political and cultural reasons. There are a thousand reasons, but the most serious one that keeps us away from each other is that we do not tolerate your brazen transformationism. We do not consider it possible for a person to sign a decree-law and then sign another one that says the exact opposite; that a person governs with the right and then with the left; that he does not have a word, but has a hundred, and that he constantly changes it according to the conveniences. You do everything by power; in the name of power you justify everything, and instead of Brothers of Italy we boast to be exactly the opposite of what you are, of how you appear. For us, loyalty and transparency are important to the voters. The word given has value and we do what we say. And since we also have the presumption of representing, even in the eyes of those who do not vote for us, a way of understanding linear and respectable politics, we reject the small lessons that have been addressed to us, even a few minutes ago, by those who want to explain to us what seriousness and responsibility are, what the meaning of the State and the institutions mean and what national interest is. They are all concepts that we know very well and that we practice every day, and for which we ask nothing in our behalf. We do it free of charge, with a great sense of responsibility. What would be the sense of responsibility that you are asking us, Mr Conte, and that our colleagues in the majority are asking us? It is a strange concept of comparison and collaboration this. You arrive in the Senate with a decree-law of 165 articles, armor it with confidence, do not allow to modify even a comma and then ask the opposition to shut up and say that everything is fine. This is not cooperation, Mr President: it is asking the opposition to give up doing its job, which in a democracy is at least as important as the profession of those who govern. You ask us, then, to guarantee the quorum on the days when your parliamentarians are not even in hand to come and vote on your decree-laws. Do you want a gesture of responsibility? Begin to admit your mistakes and arrogance. [[Applause.]] For our part, we cannot remain silent, we cannot but say that you have ministers who are not up to the level: one mafia dumpster, the other buys benches with wheels. We cannot but say that you have put people of your trust at the top of the INPS and ANPAL, who are a real disaster. [[Applause.]] We cannot fail to say that you have hired 4,000 navigators with the precise task of not having them work even one day. We cannot be silent about the fact that our foreign policy practically does not exist: 0.0. You have not solved a single industrial policy dossier: not Ilva, not the Highway Company, not Alitalia, where you have done the miracle of multiplying the posts of the board of directors from three to nine to ensure parties, parties, groups and groups that support your confused majority. [[Applause.]] If, then, we want to remain on a high-level discussion about what Italy is, what we mean by Italy, about the idea that we in our country have at five to ten years old, we are willing to do so, and if the recovery fund, as you say, is the new Marshall Plan - we doubt that it is, we hope you are right - we are willing to confront ourselves. However, President Conte, I ask you: if everything is so important, why are we standing still? Why is Italy so late? How come, after months of discussion, all you have produced are these absolutely generic, vague and inconclusive guidelines? The answer I give you, President Conte, is that you have produced these vague, general and inconclusive guidelines because they reflect the nature of your government alliance. You are not together because you have a united project for Italy: you are together only because you are afraid of the elections, President Conte. I conclude, because the time available to me is over, in particular by reminding the members of the Government, the President and the Ministers, that 18 people will not sleep at home this night either, because they are prisoners of a foreign state, in Benghazi, Libya, where they have been illegally detained by a warlord for over forty days. These are our Sicilian fishermen from Mazara del Vallo. ( [[Applause.]] For them no one is moved, for them no one places yellow posters outside the gates of the town halls, for them no intellectual is mobilized. [[Applause]] Sure, because they're not scafists and they're not even watchmen of the Finance Guard; they're workers who earn their wages on a boat. It is especially for them that the protection of the Italian State should apply. If then there is still a Minister at the Farnesina and not only an empty chair it is time to end this shame, to tell the gentlemen of the Benghazi war that the time of blackmail is over, just as the patience of Italy has ended. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u177	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President-in-Office of the Council, we are well aware that we are living in very complicated and difficult times. We are faced with a difficult passage of our country and history because together they are coagulating great epochal crises that it is not easy to go through: the crisis and the pandemic. I say very clearly, in reply to my colleague, that we are tired, we are really tired of continuing to hear speeches that want to represent the fact that there is a power, a government that wants to suppress, using the excuse of the pandemic and the emergency, the freedoms of the citizens. [[Applause.]] You're sending a wrong and dangerous message! You know perfectly well that we are still in a very complicated and difficult situation and it is not and will not be easy to deal with; We must put in place all the forces and resources we have to manage this phase. As Senator Renzi said well, we are being listened to by citizens who may have found the neighbor who is positive, who have heard of another infection, who have difficulty and fear. We forgot about our loved ones, our old people. I say with great serenity, appealing to all of you, that we must stop using this easy propaganda that once again wants to counter freedom, emergency, health and safety. There is a government that has been on its shoulders and facing a complicated situation. In fact, if someone had told us a year ago that a pandemic would come, maybe someone would have taken him crazy. She's here. The European Council of 15 and 16 October (which will finally be the first in presence, to give you the order of ideas) must address as a first necessity and urgency the coordination of policies to deal with the crisis Covid. Do we want to see what's going on in France, what's going on in England, what's going on in Spain? We, on the contrary, were invested first and managed to face a complicated and difficult situation, absolutely unexpected and unpredictable. We are also faced with another crisis. I am happy and happy - and I say this out of personal satisfaction because I have been dealing with these things for thirty years - that the great environmental crisis and the issue of climate change are also at the heart of the European Council, because they are not something else. We are not discussing, as someone said some time ago, flowers and flowers, but a matter that is vital to the survival of the species. I am passionate about the encyclical "Laudato si'" because when it came out it finally revealed to the whole world (Catholics, Christians, believers and non-believers) what was the post and what we once again had to face as humanity and in terms of choices of responsibility towards all living creatures and the human species. We are at a crucial stage in history and we cannot fail. The pandemic is a face of that medal, that is, how we exploited resources and attacked nature. Today we need to know that the challenge causes the wrists to tremble, but politics must take full responsibility for decisions - this is what is at stake now. Today's debate on the recovery fund was a good one, because the Commissions have worked and made their contribution: in that document, in the report that we approved, there are so many important and positive elements that can make us make a big leap forward. But we must be aware that these are not collateral issues and that we must deal with complexity; not simple things, but complexity. This is the challenge that history has given us right now in this passage. I say this and I am sure that we will work this way: we must not think that, even in making our plan, we can take a little bit here and there; instead we must have the ability to take a big step forward, to take the strategic choice on which to walk. We can't do a little bit of this and a little bit of it, but we need to have an overall vision, a new vision. To do this, yes, we also need a cultural revolution. Look out, you also need a great cultural revolution because you have to change the way you see things and you have to understand that the world, even more so today, is complex. This, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is the challenge of Italy, but it is also the great challenge of Europe. We need to know we're not working to get back to before the pandemic. No, because before there were all the problems that today have multiplied and amplified. We had the environmental problem, as was evident to everyone, and we have the problem of a country like ours, which is exposed, not only for the Mediterranean (then I will return), to all the situations of war and conflict that are around us and to everything that Italy and Europe have to face. Italy is also the most exposed country with regard to climate change, and we see what happens now weekly when we are faced with the great impact of what were once called emerging events, extreme events. Today they occur punctually and we see with our own hands our fragility. Returning to the fact that we cannot go back to the way we were before, we are faced with even greater inequality, a problem that in this country has become acute in recent times. That is the point on the big, even structural issues of how the machine works, the big issues that we have to deal with. Today - and I am proud of it - my colleague La Forgia has made a fair reference to the fact that our country has a huge problem of gender inequality. Again, it is not a separate matter; it is not one of the various chapters. They're all together. We must have the ability to have a different look, a very wide and strong design and strategic capacity. I say this once again: look at the fact that no one here is appealing - I am also referring to the speeches of Senator Casini and Senator Renzi - to co-responsibility. Look at the fact that democratic parliaments have never faced such an issue as the pandemic and the epidemic. Our numbers, our qualified majorities have not been written thinking that we should have faced a situation of that kind, in which every senator, every congressman, even if he wants to come, cannot do so, as you know perfectly well. It is not a question of majorities. What we are asking of you, therefore, is a reflection to say that our democratic mechanisms and parliaments are also faced with issues that are also unpublished from the constitutional point of view and we cannot keep it quiet and silence it always with answers that can be once again propaganda. These are the issues of a democratic and constitutional nature, together with the major issues that we must address. I therefore think that the tasks that fall on us as a country and on the entire ruling class of the country do not only concern politics; we must have the courage not to let ourselves be pulled for the jacket even on the recovery fund from various solicitations and have a strategic vision. We must ask the whole country, the ruling classes of this country in the broad sense, to be able to make this change, to change pace, to change direction, otherwise there is no future. For example, today's data tell us what the economic damage of climate change would be. We open our eyes, we have to tell everyone: we have to open our eyes and have the ability not only to look forward, but to realize a different plan. Nothing will be the same and we don't have to think it should be the same. Today our colleague, Mr Pittella, has made a wonderful speech - and I would like to repeat it to him again now - in which he said that he did not think that there should also be only one suspension on European conditionality on the Stability Pact; in that case too, we must look forward, not go back after the suspension for the emergency. I, in fact, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, believe it, I come from that generation, those are my values. I really think that another Italy is possible but also that another Europe is possible [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u180	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, today we have seen an extremely important debate. I have to say that in the end all the senators present have made an active contribution that I appreciated very much; I must also say that at the heart of this debate, to my great satisfaction, there was the importance of Europe, not only because it is in our cultural roots and because it is the fruit of the will of the founding Fathers, but also because Europe means - as I think it is now clear to everyone, even to the most sceptical - the future of our country. It is an important step and we must acknowledge all those who have had a rethink on this: our Government, our majority actually came from this strain, from this way of thinking: Europeanist, yes, but with great determination and determination for a Europe different from that which has been in the past. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I must acknowledge that you and your ministers have achieved a change of pace, that they have achieved it after the pandemic, but that they have set it before it happened, and we are grateful for that. Today, on the eve of a complicated European Council as you are now accustomed to dealing with, we have some issues that we want to put before you. We have done this in part with parliamentary work, in particular by the Commissions meeting 5a and 14a. All the Commissions participated and gave their contribution; the document that the Assembly decided to approve is rich, full of solicitations and addresses to the Government. We as Parliament and as the Senate, in the second phase of the emergency that will accompany our country during the period when we will have to get out of this economic and health emergency, must have the courage to make an effort to bring back the centrality of Parliament and the necessary direction that we have the duty to give it as our maximum representative in those fora. The Next generation EU programme is for us truly the bet of the future; it is not only an opportunity born of a misfortune - which has never ended and which leads us to fight every day in hospitals, homes, families, roads and with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that you have proposed - but it is also an important opportunity because it will allow us, if we can grasp it properly, to change our country for the better. The document we have approved goes in exactly this direction. Mr President, we believe that the lines of direction and investment that have been proposed are correct, strategic and in line with the policy that this Government and this majority want to implement in Italy and in Europe, for Italians and for the European community, understood in a very broad sense. It is then a bet that cannot be lost, that must lead the whole country to support our Government. It is sad when you read interviews in newspapers that almost show the hope of failure, error, a measure that does not give the results that were hoped for. [[Applause]] We do not think so; we did not think so even when we were in opposition: first, our country, first of all, our national community. [[Comments.]] The speeches that have asked the whole House and all the individual parliamentarians for responsibility are not - and this was pointed out by Senator De Petris - a request for sharing choices: they are the ability, with a sense of the institutions and of the State, as we once said, and above all with individual responsibility, to understand the situation. I say this with great security and great transparency: tomorrow we will have the necessary votes to approve the deviation and to allow our Government to continue the important relaunch of our country. But I believe that this is an opportunity for everyone, precisely because we do not need votes, precisely because we are living a rough path linked to a pandemic that can, from one day to the next, prevent ten, twenty, thirty of our Members from being present. [[Applause]] This sense of responsibility, this gesture, this attention, not towards the Government, the Democratic Party or other forces of majority, but towards the country, is perhaps then an operation on which each of you should reflect to understand whether it is appropriate or not. I think it is, just to prove this to the country. The medical emergency has not ended. The data and the daily nature of the information we receive illustrate the European framework, the world framework and - alas - unfortunately also the Italian one, with the cases on the rise, so much so that you were obliged to take restrictive measures, necessary, but that rightly allow economic activities to go on. Mr President, let me make one point: I have done it several times and I feel obliged to do it today. You promised - and I am sure you will soon - an open, frank and transparent debate on the issue of investment in the health world. I am referring to the ESM, but not necessarily to that. I am referring to the fact that Italy, with its experience over the last few months, must raise the problem of investment. The problem of health structures, territorial health, digital health which is coming and which can solve many problems must be raised. The problem of the times must be posed, so that the necessary resources are available immediately, in order to respond to the increasing demands from the Presidents of the Regions, who live daily, having a large part of the delegations on health, the need to quickly implement important investments, imposing, that make a qualitative leap. Italy has reacted well; it must demonstrate maturity and maturity means not having patterns or dogmas, but having the capacity in Parliament in an open, frank, direct and pragmatic way to understand all together what could be the true interest of our national community. Mr President, the European Council is also called upon to set the perspective on the timing of the disbursements of these extraordinary funds that must come. On this I ask you to make a special effort to convince and overcome the resistance that we know there and I ask all political forces to support it in this because the advance of those investments and the possibility of being able to rely heavily on those funds quickly will make a difference. We assist - and you with us - looking around us in every part of our country, to the suffering of the workers who are risking losing their jobs, of the young people who do not find work, of the enterprises that know how to be destined to close if there will not be the solution and the relaunch of the economic system, if there will not be the modernization of our country, the investments on infrastructures, the digitization that we have long waited for and if there will not be that massive investment on the green economy - let's call it what we want - and on the safety of the soil. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is a great opportunity. The timing, the manner and the seriousness with which we are dealing with this problem allow me to be, if possible in this situation, also optimistic, but we must all work together in Parliament with the logics I have announced and without reservation and with no one. However, we also need to be concrete and have long-term lines that allow us to face this challenge with the appropriate grip and leadership capacity that we have demonstrated as a country within Europe, changing the perception that Italy had up to now. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have a great responsibility. We, as Parliament, as Senate and individual Members, feel that we have a great deal of responsibility. He knows that he enjoys our trust and that he has the numbers in Parliament that allow him to move forward on the track, but the times and the modalities are central to determining the future of our country. We do not think to put our future and the future of our country in your hands; we think to collaborate with the Government and with the national community as a whole in a better, different future and to overcome the problems that are attacking Italy and Europe today. Come on, Mr. President! ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u181	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u183	SCHIFANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of my Group, I cannot fail to express great concern about the government's management of the recovery fund. We have not noticed the effects of EUR 100 billion in deviation which this Parliament has authorised and which, in part, at first instance, this opposition, with a great sense of responsibility, has also endorsed. We didn't notice it, but I think the country also noticed little because, when the parcelling of the interventions is the daughter of the anomaly of a heterogeneous government that moves on different directions of march and has different visions of the societies (one based on the state assistantism and the presence of the State and the other a little more liberal), there is no doubt that the paralysis of the choices paralyzes the processes of choice of economic policies that look more to the development, the economy and the enterprises. Debt has been produced. Let us all remember the words of President Draghi. Is that a good debt? I consider it a bad debt and perhaps even a bad debt because there has been no growth. The resources have not arrived in time to many companies, entrepreneurs and many employees who have lost their jobs, not to mention the INPS scandal, and I do not want to inveire. Survival subsidies, for the future of young people, are not limited to small grants of EUR 600, which have been delayed. All this is the result of a lack of consultation: it is a term that does not drive me crazy, because it is precisely of the left, that did not bear much fruit with the Prodi Government, but it would have been necessary. I trust you, with extreme respect, to be tired of hearing your promises of opposition involvement. I do not exclude that perhaps his good will be put on the brakes by the parties that support it, but this does not work and the country cannot go on, while there are great appointments waiting for him. In fact, Mr President, you will remember that the great politicians of our country like De Gasperi, when the war was over, looked at the processes of growth and already studied economic measures to support the development of the economy. They were already looking at this. The Government, which is fighting an unwanted war, is not doing so, nor is it measuring itself on this bet, even with regard to the collaboration with an opposition that has been and continues to be responsible, for which I am proud and which has allowed this Government to bring all the decree-laws into the Chamber with an exhausted work in the Commission, rather than assuming obstructive attitudes: it must recognize this merit, because it has been so. [[Applause]] There is also a structural lack of capacity for European funds to be used by our country. It's not your government's responsibility, it's historical. From 2014 to 2020, out of 78 billion allocated to our country, 38 percent were used, against 85 percent of the European average. We have a problem: not only do we spend little, but in our country, in order to achieve growth results, it is not enough the size of public intervention; we need the quality of public intervention, but also the ability and the possibility to intervene in a country that can constructively transpose those finances, by virtue of a justice for which the decision-making processes are immediate and swift and that is not Manichea, like the one that characterized its Government with the abolition of the prescription and that has condemned to long trials. [[Applause]] I also recall the introduction of retroactive sanctions, which is not seen with good eye by European and global guaranteeing, in which Article 27 has been subverted. I would no longer speak of presumption of not guilt, but of presumption of guilt, with this Government. That is the problem we are facing. [[Applause]] As far as the intervention on tax and labour is concerned, we should implement system policies capable of making the European resources that will come and we should change the internal fabric of our country in the field of taxation, justice and labour, with a lower labour cost than the current one, a lower tax wedge, a job that also looks at the enterprise, incentives to create pure work and not state work, as does the income of citizenship. [[Applause]] Of course, this worries me, and not a little, because we have become accustomed to the monocratic measures of its DCCM, which, adopted in a moment of emergency, had to be adopted and implemented. We are tired of witnessing the lack of parallelism between the limitation of activity and work capacity and the simultaneous provision of an allowance that allows the unemployed and the entrepreneur to continue to survive and an immediate and non-substitutional integration fund by the employers, because the INPS fails to provide it in the right time. [[Applause]] This has happened, unfortunately, Mr President, and then something else happened. There has been talk of the reform called for by the 5 Star Movement, aimed at reducing the number of parliamentarians, which would reduce the costs of politics and would simplify and facilitate the work of Parliament. No, Mr President, this problem has been resolved. Parliament's work has been shut down. From bicameralism, we have moved to monocameralism, because by now, with the decree of urgency of its Government, on the basis and under the aegis of urgency, the decrees-laws are omnibus, touching everything and of urgency in part have some arguments, but in part not. At the same time, there has been a habit that only one branch of Parliament will deal with the decree-law, while the other only has the stamp. I have here the time list of decree-laws: some start with 127 articles and end with 175, but in the second branch of Parliament there are only fifteen days; another was only eight days, with the doubling of articles; yet another, with 34 articles, was seven days in the other branch of Parliament; in another decree-law, 65 articles became 110 and it was six days in the other branch of Parliament. We are at the true and proper monocameralism, and we therefore have an improper decree, which essentially prevents Parliament, as provided for by the constituent Fathers, from fulfilling the function of the cradle, of double reading, which is a guarantee of transparency of our democracy. This is happening. [[Applause]] Mr Conte, I am sorry that what I am quoting is even part of the text of your decree-laws; not of the amendments introduced. Can you explain to me, what is urgent, pursuant to Article 77 of the Constitution, in predicting: direct recruitment by the Minister of Cultural Heritage; payment of the debts of the municipality of Campione d'Italia; institution of the Venice Lagoon Authority; recruitment of civilian personnel for the Taranto Military Arsenal; recruitment of collaborators of the extraordinary Commissioner for lyrical-symphonic foundations? Would this be an urgent decree? But what's urgent? [[Applause]] President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I would have understood if you had envisaged the recruitment of 500 health workers or 500 doctors: hats, because we are in an emergency, but these, which I do not want to say with an expression that it is not right to introduce into this House, know what they are: requests from the various ministries. So, however, we offend the Constitution and you, who are a man of law, should think carefully about this. I hope he will do so for the next decree-laws, I'm sure, because we can't watch this mess. We have become accustomed to its DPCMs, which restrict freedom of movement, in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution, which we know. There is an emergency, but it has now reached ten months, and we know that Article 16 of the Constitution provides that freedom of movement can be achieved - and you know it, because you know the article - for reasons of health or safety through the law. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, however, is not a law! [[Applause]] Let's make a decree-law. We are here: it comes into force immediately and we will discuss it. Why is this abuse of monocratic acts that undermine the fundamental principles of our Constitution? You see, President Conte, when you then assume these attitudes and repeat themselves over time, you realize the danger of the famous precedent, which then, in our customs of sources, becomes almost binding. We cannot allow this, and we must denounce it, with respect for your institutional status, Mr President, because we cannot go on like this. That's my concern. At the same time, we need fresh finance, not decrees-laws that refer to decrees implementing the implementation of financial rules. [[Applause]] I find in fact a contradiction between the use of the decree of urgency, which postulates the need to introduce immediate rules (if there is an emergency or an urgency, the norm is introduced by decree-law), and then the postponement to implementing decrees, which will be implemented and realized, of course, over time. [[Applause]] This discrasia is to be avoided. Make analytical decrees-laws, immediately operational. The implementing decrees are not adopted, because, within the decree-law, the norm immediately applicable is inserted. Mr President, these sums will largely commit the future of our children, because a large part of the recovery fund is debt, which will be borne by our children and grandchildren. Therefore, I believe that we and its majority have a duty. Through the use of these sums, we will draw the future Italy. I am convinced that we are required to draw good Italy, our children and our grandchildren. But in order to do so you must abandon the preconception that everything coming from the opposition is wrong, because it is an axiom that cannot be accepted in a democracy like our country, which is facing a war. [[Applause]] During wars, in fact, majority and opposition are close and together. And then your government has a duty to listen to us, but not only in words; it summons the majority on the recovery fund proposals and it does so in a constructive and responsible spirit, which you will not miss, because your legal culture must bring it to this. I understand that your Government is heterogeneous and the result of different areas and sensitivities. I say, however, that this Parliament, in my experience, has found itself taking sensitive attitudes in the fight against organised crime. In 2002, as a Parent Company, I proposed the stabilisation of the hard prison and then, as President of the Senate, I proposed the tightening of the anti-mafia seizures; we were all together, I involved the opposition, because that measure was not just a flag of the majority. [[Applause]] When one is opposed and at war, one has the duty to unite the unity of a country, its principles and its values: thousands and thousands of men have died for them, who have lost their lives in the logic of our country's unity, on the altar of unity and the defence of our values, dying abroad, even in international missions. I will never forget the pain I felt every time, with the President of the Republic and the President of the House, we welcomed the relatives of our heroes, who proudly brought photographs of their victims. [[Applause]] That value must be defended; those victims demand unity from our country, today, when we must draw the Italy of the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u184	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u186	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I will see to it that I remain in the very concrete wake of my fellow Ciriani and Schifani colleagues from the centre-right who preceded me, because Italy is asking us for answers. A first reflection: you have extended the state of emergency, unique in Europe, on health issues. Let me remind you briefly that on 2 October a large part of Italy in the North-West was hit by a flood, which caused deaths, injuries and disappearances. President Macron - of which I am definitely not a fan - after three days was on the spot; they declared the state of emergency and allocated 100 million euros. Eleven days later, you had not been there and you had not allocated a lira or declared the state of emergency. This is surreal. [[Applause]] And this isn't about Europe. The same disaster has struck Italy and France, but there is way and way to act. So, before promulgating emergency states in the absence of emergencies, take care of real emergencies, since there are people who are still digging damages, which are equal to about a billion euros. Collaboration: I think that the centerright united tomorrow morning would come to confront what we have to do and build. However, the cooperation you ask for when you need help is strange. Then, for the rest, we read in the newspapers what you do: disassemble the security decrees and prepare to disassemble 100 quota, female option and pension right. On the school last night you gave birth to a decree prohibiting the seventh child from entering the birthday party of one of his companions, while Minister Azzolina, in a surreal way, confirmed for 22 October a contest that removes from the classes 66,000 teachers who will go around Italy. Stop this mess, stop this shame; it is an outrage at school. [[Applause]] Trade unions, insecure people and families are asking for it. One month after school, there are hundreds of unclassed children and tens of thousands of disabled children without a support teacher; for those families it is a disaster. And what does Minister Azzolina do? It confirms a competition that sees tens of thousands of teachers leave their classes and travel around Italy. You cannot talk about future generations when you put the present of families, students and teachers at risk. [[Applause]] Notify the Minister of Education that there is a problem in Italy or probably the problem is you, but we will talk about it elsewhere. Speaking of real life, we kindly ask you, on behalf of the Italian families, who are not on the right or left, to stop the planned sending of nine million debitory folders to date from Friday. [[Applause]] Attention, Il Sole 24 Ore data tell us that 90% of these, Mr President, are below EUR 5.000; we are not talking about the big evaders, but about someone who obviously had a problem at home before Covid and, more importantly, will have one later. You really risk bringing hundreds of thousands of families to collapse. You are in time, it does not depend on Europe: block these nine million debitory folders, because it could really be the beginning of a path from which we do not leave. [[Applause]] On the decrees we would like to collaborate, but announced on Monday night a decree that comes into force on Tuesday morning and that concerns the lives of people, such as marriages (look that there are weddings cancelled!). Enter people's homes with your decrees: involve us, listen to us, consult us; we do not claim to be right, we are a minority for the moment in this Parliament, but we are a majority in many cities and regions of the country. You can't do this on your own. Confindustria, trade unions and trade associations ask: listen to us, we have something to say; we have not only criticisms, but proposals. Speaking of Europe: if anything works, live! International cooperation: perfect, that's fine. As a colleague recalled, when trade agreements with certain African countries are renewed, a line of clause will have to be put in place. I am taking the example of Tunisia and Bangladesh, from which the two major nationalities come during this period; we give you the billions to grow that we have always given you, but we put the readmission clause: we give you the money, but you take back all the illegals who are coming to our country. Sounds like a fair and equal relationship to me. [[Applause]] Note on the sidelines: since you are talking about cooperation, 604 people landed on Saturday, Sunday 559. You can't chase Italians on the plain of the house and, in the meantime, land thousands of people who then run away and travel around Italy without any precaution or control. [[Applause]] As far as fishermen are concerned, as my colleague has already said, we have rightly celebrated and, most likely, paid for the return home of girls who have converted to Islam: let us go home and bring back fishermen who were at sea working, not for tourism or hobby. [[Applause]] It's been a month and a half, there are their mothers and wives sleeping in front of Montecitorio. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it would be a wonderful gesture on your part (if you like, we are going with a delegation of all the parties) tonight, before going to the restaurant or pizzeria, to go to Montecitorio and look into the eyes of those mothers, daughters and wives. [[Applause]] We have no flags and no symbols; it is a matter of justice. Speaking of justice, since you will rightly speak of violence, climate migrants and escape from wars, it is right to fight wars, wherever they are, but I do not understand why there have been mass-A and mass-B deaths. There are no B-grade deaths; those in Armenia have the dignity of all the other dead in the world. The one in Armenia has the dignity of all the other genocides. [[Applause]] France and Germany have already moved on to this. Italy has not yet said half a word and I think that this is not worthy of a country like ours, because Article 11 of the Constitution clearly reminds us that Italy repudiates war. On the climate, I challenge anyone to say that we do not care about the environment in which our children will grow up, but we have a duty to accompany our businesses. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, German companies will have money to start decarbonisation. The only thing that Italian companies are certain of is that from 1 January they will have to pay the tax on plastic and sugar: it is madness, which puts at risk 20,000 jobs. [[Applause]] I wonder what we would have done during the Covid without plastic. We therefore help our companies to be even better than they already are. New taxes are simply a damage to the environment and our businesses. So I ask you kindly to suspend this madness, in anticipation of January 1st. While we're at it, I'm also telling you that what we're talking about at the Ministry of Economics and Finance is a new tax on motorists and truck drivers, to date from January 1st, is the last of the things that are needed to get the country back on track. Tighten truck drivers and drivers who have an old car, not because they're vintage, but because they obviously still don't have the money to buy a new one, I don't think it's smart. We are waiting for the debate in this House on the ESM, because there is now a surreal debate: we are talking about the ESM in its absence and we are confirming the emergency with the numbers we know. Take it to the attention of the House and we will discuss it. Then we will talk, for example, about the fact that the three-year Treasury bonds, today, for the first time in history, were issued with an interest rate of zero percent. So, if I have to choose whether to trust the Italians or a body, unpunished and unpunished, which is based in Luxembourg, I say alive Italy and the Italians, let's leave the MES where it is and entrust ourselves to our savers! [[Applause]] I'm gonna finish. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, quoted the three Ps: people, prosperity and planet. As for the people, I ask you to put an end to the mess that makes us watch television from all over Italy, because, waiting to help people tomorrow, it is not humanly understandable to see, from North to South, thousands of women and men, of mothers and grandparents, queued for hours or days to make a swab. [[Applause]] This is not humanly possible or acceptable and you can solve it today. As for prosperity, there are hundreds of thousands of Italians still waiting for the integration fund, for months. [[Comments.]] A piece of Senate woke up: I'm happy, because I felt a certain numbness. All you have to do is be ashamed and apologize to the unintegrated workers! [[Applause]] You should just say thanks to the entrepreneurs, who did what you and the INPS didn't do. If these workers had waited for the government and the INPS, they would already have died of hunger. [[Stretch applause.]] That's the truth! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u187	Senator Nugnes!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u188	[[Comments.]] That's better, then. If you don't want to listen, you better get out. Please, Senator Salvini. SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). For the time being, meetings in the Senate with more than six people are still permitted, unless this too can be prevented in the future. [[Applause]] So, if we were allowed to finish the reasoning... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u189	Everyone's been pierced. Do I have to list everyone who's done it? All of them, all of them. I decide what I want to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u190	Please, Senator Salvini, finish. [[Comments]] SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I repeat the fact that statements of cooperation through the press agency do not serve any purpose. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u191	Senator Pirro, I invite you to shut up. Let me talk to you. We are in a free Parliament. Let us intervene. Please be quiet. Please, Senator Salvini, go ahead.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u192	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It was the final invitation to collaboration, but if this is the climate, it's a rather bizarre invitation. [[Applause.]] Anyway, I'll say it again... [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u193	Senator Salvini, please finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u194	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It was the last two lines, I swear. I was saying: since the journalists reminded us that Secretary Zingaretti said that we must cooperate with the opposition and that President Conte said so too; well, I think that all the center-right, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow or when she will consider - preferably before the next six months - can cancel all commitments on the agenda, because the Italians ask us to work together to help this country. Don't be alone [[Applause]] Why can't you do it? If you want, then, with ideas and proposals, but no magic wands, a contribution we can give it; However, collaboration means building a path together. If someone prefers the directs organized by Casalino to unified networks, then we are not. Thank you, Mr President. I wish you every success. We are waiting for your call. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u195	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u196	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u197	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, it is indeed an embarrassment of choice. I have a few minutes, which I would have liked to dedicate to the subject of the day, the agenda of the European Council; Senator Zanda also mentioned this: let us never talk about it. However, the other choice is to deny the lies that are said, because those who listen to us... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u198	Perhaps it is better to use a somewhat more appropriate terminology.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u199	[[Comments]] Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I understand that you decide, but you cannot decide what I have to say: that is obvious. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u200	Perhaps I will direct this House, not you, so make appropriate choices; thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u201	[[Protests]] Mr Perilli (M5S). I was saying that there is an alternative because, behind this decision, there is the right of people to know the measures that will be taken in Europe and to know about the money that will be received according to what we present. Some have complained about the fact that the guidelines are general: they are guidelines, precisely - moreover, we must also specify the obvious - also very detailed. Well, everyone is very careful to say that the money that will come will be about EUR 80 billion in lost funds. They prefer to tell the part about the debt. [[Applause.]] When has it ever happened that Italy, the historic contributor, who then paid money in Europe, received money back and more than the one paid? Never, certainly not under your governments. [[Applause.]] This is a fundamental step, Mr President, because it contains perfectly what needs to be transmitted. There will be and there is a solidity of Italy on the markets, because, if the securities have been quoted, it is well known that at five years they have very low interests and, under that threshold, even negative ones. This means that there are resources for Italy in all markets. It doesn't make sense, though. Among other things, someone spoke of uncertainty, saying that the Italian people live in that state. President Casini, I disagree. The Italian people have understood perfectly the historical context that we are experiencing and of course there is concern, because there is a pandemic going on and, in some cases, the interruption and suspension of habits that we have always experienced, but there is a much more responsible awareness and much more focused on what has emerged in the debate in this House. The country, in fact, apart from the bickering and the mutual accusations, now wants solutions that we are giving, but if you do not let them tell and prefer to deviate on anything else - I am not referring to you, but to those who do, Mr President - then there is the duty to restore some truths. I took notes on all the surgeries. As for Senator Salvini's intervention, at first I wrote only that he had put together the flood with the pandemic and attacked Minister Azzolina. [[Applause.]] This would be the equipment, among other things usual, with which Senator Salvini He intervenes. I understood, however, that it would be too reductive, because then some messages were sent from here, Mr President, so I also took this to say what the Government is doing. Well, when it is said, for example, that the government is dismantling 100, it is not true at all, because it was the deadline set by Salvini himself when he was in government. [[Applause.]] Salvini talks about immigration and landings and the Salvini decrees are still in force. When he says, for example, that Option woman is being disassembled, it is not true, because it is and will be present in the financial. I am still thinking about everything that is said about taxes and the ESM; When you were in government in 2011, you increased VAT. [[Applause.]] Something I don't think ever happened. We, through the safeguard clauses, prevented the increase in VAT and you allowed it; you approved the ESM in 2011, when you were in government, and we are not against the ESM. [[Applause.]] The story is very simple and clear, but we must know how to tell it, because this does not even honour the work of this Parliament. We were talking about history and being in its pages, but we are not talking about a page of history or geography: here we are talking about the collective effort of a country in view of a goal. Those who want to be there are there; those who do not want to be there are not there. It is not that you have to find so many rounds, elucubrations or escapism, because, when you do not have a quorum on fundamental votes, because you know that some colleagues are positive at Covid, you are not doing a kind of collaboration with Parliament. [[Applause),]] but a political use at your service and not of the country. The deviation is an objective fact: they are resources that serve the country, you don't have to make us drop it from above and make us weigh it. With regard to Parliament's involvement, President Conte has come nine times to report both on the emergency and on related events, and all nine times you have replied with a load of insults, sterile proposals. [[Applause]] , issues that do not affect the country, sophisms and quotations that do not go beyond themselves. I also appreciated the first part of the story that had been made about an Italian story, winning; that of an industrialist, quoted a moment ago by Senator Renzi, who then became also a propaganda of the MES. That is not the context; we are not here to divide ourselves on the ESM. We are saying that the resources that will come from Europe amount to EUR 200 billion, of which EUR 80 billion is lost, because they are subsidies: I will always say that. Do you know what that means? I'm a loser. It means that they will go to finance, as we have also put in the missions of the guidelines, infrastructure, social and digitalization, which are also the references of our program. We are consistent with what we have asked for and are implementing it. All this must be said to the country, but it is useless to confuse the waters. Colleagues, tomorrow on the agenda there is the budgetary deviation and I believe that it would be strategically and politically unsettling to give you: I do not intend to do so, but to give account of a fundamental fact not for this majority, but for the country, which asks you to do so. It's an objective fact: if some people have the Covid and they can't come to vote - I know them and some of them would have come to the stretcher, as they say. [[Applause]] - because a law prevents it, so they have to stay at home, rightly, in compliance with health regulations, they cannot make their contribution. Why take advantage of it? Do your battle, but on the issues, and do not entrench yourselves behind fake battles on the unconstitutionality or suspension of democratic rights. Of course Parliament is tired: it is living together with its people the collective tragedy of what is happening. [[Applause]] I do not want to mention some of my colleagues in particular, but I address Senator Bagnai, who, when he does not intervene on the economy, in my opinion, is out of the question: he has done a kind of trial reconstruction - says a lawyer, with respect for another lawyer - with so many leaflets, minutes and times, as if it were celebrated in these rooms, saying that he hears the buzz of paternalism and what the technical-scientific committee says, behind which President Conte would hide and in which there has been a contradiction from the beginning to the end. But what contradiction? Then this comes from you who, as soon as the question of the emergency happened, said to open everything; and then you said the opposite of everything. [[Applause]] Even if one wanted to follow you, he would be disoriented. You cannot point to this Government for lack of transparency, involvement and great direct connection with the country. You made fun of him about the direct press conference. Well, this is communicating with the country: there is no citizen who has not known in real time the content of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers [[Applause]] and what was allowed or not. Ciriani, when you say that there is a sense of responsibility and that people are not children, I agree with you: these are the first ones who will try to avoid dangerous situations. He criticized Minister Hope for having threatened a simple fact, that is to control some behaviors (that there were, otherwise there would not have been even the need to stigmatize them). It is clear, however, that, for a few irresponsible people, they pay with more sick people; the country has an important share of people who are becoming ill for these irresponsible people. [[Comments.]] This is not a totalitarian regime, but it is simply the need to ask everyone to be responsible and to watch without any kind of delation. Let's not exaggerate. This is what I am trying to stigmatize: to bring speeches to make them fall into irrationality. What was asked by Minister Hope is simply a responsibility on the part of everyone for those who evidently are not yet so responsible. [[Comments.]] Mr President, if they scream at me, it means that my words reach the effect they must achieve. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u202	Senator Rauti, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u203	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr. Count, we were talking about a page of history and whether or not we are in a collective effort. If someone, as I said, feels that he does not want to be there for certain reasons, even instrumental, it will be so. We must move forward; you are moving forward and you have brought Italy back to a very important weight in the European context. [[Applause]] , reversing processes that previously went in a different direction. We have had credibility and it is not far away the memory in Europe of those who laughed behind us compared to those who told jokes or made signs and anything else. [[Applause]] He gave a dignity to Italy within that institution. The WHO recognized and praised Italy, the first Western country to be hit by the pandemic, for having implemented security measures, reversing the trend of contagion on a scientific basis. The work that has been done is enormous and I believe that those who are listening to us right now will be able to understand the meaning of this whole thing. We are with you, Mr Conte, and my explanation of vote is in favour of this motion for a resolution. Come on! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u204	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u205	According to agreements between all the Groups, tomorrow's session will begin at 10.30 a.m. with the discussion of the Update Note to the Economic and Financial Document (NADEF) and the budgetary deviation. At the request of the Forza Italia Group, the sitting will be suspended from 1 p.m. to 2 p.m. The European delegation law will be discussed on Thursday.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u206	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-13-LEG18-Senato-sed-264.ana.u207	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 14 October, at 10.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 21:17.
