ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the joint debate on document LVII, No 3, and the attached report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report and that the joint debate and the replies of the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government took place. I'm sensing that the RAI broadcast is on.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u5	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u7	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the numbers of the DEF well picture the serious situation in which we are in, where we have a decline in GDP of 8%, with an increase in unemployment of 1.7%, a collapse in domestic demand and an increase in public debt of about 20 points compared to last year, even in the face of lower tax revenues, in the order of 6%. I would immediately sign, if anyone would guarantee that, at the end of this year, the decline in GDP was 8% and the rise in unemployment by 1.7%. We are in a very serious situation, but it is very difficult to predict next year, so much so that each institution has different data, with deviations never recorded on other occasions. The numbers on today, however, tell us that Italy runs two risks: the first is that the high public debt becomes unsustainable, once the ECB's intervention in the markets is relaxed (today the Central Bank is intervening on Italy with a purchase on the markets of about 30%, for a total commitment of 195 billion); the second is linked to the fact that the Italian economy, by virtue of its characteristics, is the one that weakens most, because of the closure, with a loss of half a point GDP for every week of lockdown. This is why we need to push on measures that can consolidate and multiply against the rebound forecast for 2021. It is precisely for this reason that it is important for resources to be allocated in an important way to sectors that are able to promote economic recovery, avoiding the use of welfare, which would risk reducing the scope of interventions. We must work on the levers that promote consumer confidence, in order to strengthen domestic demand above all, also because, if we look at other countries, we will certainly have to issue additional resources, if we really want to help the real economy. Above all, however, we must review the strategy of reopenings: Italy, up to this moment, has been the shyest country, despite the spread of the pandemic see very different numbers from Region to Region, in some of which the new daily cases count on the hands. It is important that the State sets out the general rules, but let the territories determine, according to the evolution of the epidemiological curve, what can resume and what not, obviously with very strict and meticulous protocols from the health point of view and with collaborations between the hospital medicine and the territorial one: one of the reasons why - I believe - something in Italy did not work well. The regions, however, must be able to start again and it is no coincidence, ladies and gentlemen, that those in Europe who have managed best to resolve or accompany this crisis are the federal states. Of course, it will be difficult for the Chancellors, for the Merkel, for Kurz and for others to always be not only in dialogue, but at the same level of eye with the Regions, but in the end this guarantees a solution that looks at 360 degrees. It is another thing to have to deal with the territories and not only with the technical-scientific committees. The real point is that the global market, ladies and gentlemen, does not wait for Italy and this is even more important if we think that foreign demand has not suffered the same collapse as the domestic market and therefore will become the basis on which to restart the economy. The real point, however, is that the pandemic has also been a magnifying glass on the problems and limitations of the economic system: too heavy a bureaucracy, an equally complicated tax system, a judicial machine so slow that it loses a point of GDP per year. They are just titles, which we cannot go into further here, but they are useful not to forget what was the context in which we were moving until a few months ago, that of a system full of deficiencies and structural delays that complicated the work of the productive sectors, diminished the attractiveness of Italy, weakened its competitiveness on foreign markets. And then, if Italy wants to make sure that this crisis turns into a real restart, there are at least three directions on which to move. The first is simple and is contained in the deviation of the balance sheet: the idea of providing large amounts of liquidity for companies and families in difficulty, not repeating the error that was made after the 2009 crisis, even if that was above all a European error. Europe today seems to have understood the lesson and is responding to that common response which is the only chance for Member States to overcome this difficult time. I do not know whether, as someone said last week, a historical page was written (this we will really understand on 6 May) but it is clear that the package of measures under scrutiny by the governments and the Commission shows an answer to the problem. The recovery fund, the EIB, the Sure, the powerful purchase of government bonds by the ECB and not least the ESM without conditions show that Italy is in the front row to claim such an agreement, an agreement that also lays the foundations for a Europe in the sign of solidarity and competitiveness. The second point is a question and it is if Italy today is able to get these resources first in the availability of families and businesses. Unfortunately, as the professional organizations and the productive categories denounce, on the resources allocated with care Italy and the liquidity decree are still too many bureaucratic obligations, also from the banks, to which the fact is added, as denounced by many, that the institutions are giving precedence to their customers or are using these resources to resolve previous situations. There are problems arising from the procurement code, as well as those which could arise if part of the European funding were to be activated under the same procedures as the Structural Funds or the Social Fund. In the last programming, Italy failed to spend nine billion and therefore we need a public administration that is up to this challenge, just as we would need at this time for the Regions and Municipalities to unlock pre-emergency payments. That would help businesses. The third element concerns the way in which we intend to qualify this expenditure, towards which social and economic model we intend to bring Italy after Covid. This can be an extraordinary opportunity for the greatest work of bureaucratic simplification that Italy has ever known, but it is also an opportunity to meet a true environmental sustainability, to give the right value to all those sectors that contribute to growth that is not reflected in GDP data, but that concerns social commitment, the theme of care, social cohesion, the protection of the territory, volunteering in its various forms. We have before us a season of responsibility that must decline at all levels and that cannot be imagined and managed only centrally. It required and needed greater involvement of local authorities - Regions, Autonomous Provinces - who have a more refined look at the economic conditions and danger to the public health in which their territories are located. The same principle applies to economic measures, by giving local authorities the opportunity to intervene with their own instruments in order to maximise the effectiveness of resources. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that the Government has taken a step forward on Europe, but that it has taken a step back on the development of Stage 2. First of all, it strikes me that in the important task force chaired by Colao, not even an entrepreneur is sitting. That's impossible. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az]] You have to have this 360-degree look I've been talking about. Professors and lawyers are very important, but where are the entrepreneurs? Moreover, if the constant recourse to the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers could be understandable at the stage of the emergency response, it is less so when it comes to building the project for the phase of coexistence with the virus. Above all, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers constitutes a suspension of the prerogatives of Parliament, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, which are today stripped of their powers. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PAT, UV), FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az]] The special autonomy has collaborated with the highest institutional loyalty throughout the emergency, but it cannot be thought that autonomy becomes another victim of the Covid-19. We need and want a partner state and not a master state [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We're not subjects. The master state cannot say to the Regions: do this, we grant you this, be good. No, the state must listen to us and have a dialogue with us. That's not our culture. We want to participate, compete, debate, we want to assume our responsibility. We want to go back safely, of course, but we have to go back. Today we will vote in favour of the sense of responsibility that has always distinguished this Group. I really hope that the 55 billion will be spent well and quickly, because we cannot say no to such an important amount of resources. In conclusion, I announce the Group's vote in favour, but a vote that is full of perplexity about the way in which the Government is approaching this new phase, with the strong wish that things can change as soon as possible, returning to those tracks of confrontation and loyalty that have always characterized our relationship with all governments, but above all with this. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and FIBP-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u8	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u10	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I shall speak slowly for the Members of the League, so that they can continue to sleep in view of the night. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Lanzi]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u11	Senator Pharaoh, talk to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u12	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Yes, Mr President, it is even more pleasurable. Mr President, on the very subject of the League, a few days ago I read a tweet from a Member of Parliament who complained that Germany was there to support Lufthansa, an airline that normally goes on with its legs, but that it needs state intervention and support just because the flights are stopped all over the world. This parliamentarians of the League said that when we do it we criticize us, if they do it instead everything is fine, as if to intervene on Alitalia, a company structurally and perennially in crisis, where we always enter economic resources without then this laundry bucket is ever repaired, it is the same thing that to intervene on an airline that, once the epidemic is over, will start again. However, I needed this reasoning for an overall reflection on the subject of State aid and the possibility that today is given to States to support their businesses. I was struck by the fact that Germany had been approved by the European Union by 55% of the interventions that included contributions for businesses, compared with 20% for France and 10% for Italy. I start from this analysis but I come to a different conclusion from that of the sovereignists: the rules that we normally live as instruments of oppression against the economically weaker countries, in particular Italy, if suspended, can create a damage to these countries. I say this because if companies start to have support from the stronger states, it will no longer prevail the meritocracy, that is, who is better, but the state where the enterprise is born. We risk a Darwinian entrepreneurial idea with respect to a meritorious idea. On the other hand, we must imagine a Europe that thinks more about solidarity between States that is convenient for the States themselves. You don't go to Europe with the heads of the sovereigns who think you're going to Europe to cheat or who are afraid of being screwed. For example, the proposal of the patriotic BOTs, that is, issued by Italy, but guaranteed by the European Central Bank, has within it an idea that is the daughter of a beggar sovereignism, a patriotism with a hat in hand that does not make us look good and represents the worst commercial for our credibility. I must say that, on the contrary, I very much appreciated the political line of President Berlusconi and Forza Italia who have shown themselves to be a political force imbued with true Europeanism. With this measure, we reach EUR 80 billion in deviation - past 25 and current 55 - with EUR 155.7 billion more than public debt and a fall in GDP between 8% and 10%. I criticize those who say that the epidemic is like a war because it is not so, but surely these numbers make us understand how our economy, at the end of the pandemic, will be an economy after the war. We must stress that Italy has been able to finance itself on the international markets for weeks now thanks to the massive interventions of the European Central Bank, so who says that Europe has not been there, says a lie because we are already seeing the effects of European intervention today. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We have health facilities, we have a health care system that has proven to be able to cope with the crisis, but we have hospitals that were built during the Napoleonic era. The same treatments and drugs - perhaps lifesaving drugs - are paid in some regions and in others are distributed free of charge because we cannot guarantee the essential levels of care. We have CT machines and mammographs that are old and need to be changed. We need 5,000 more doctors, 15,000 more nurses. We need specialty schools. This is what is needed by the ESM, Mr President, and who says that we must give up improving our health system, not only is it foolish, but it is also irresponsible and then cannot say that we must stand on the side of the doctors who have shown that they are often able to cope with this crisis on their own. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Do we want to give up the ESM even out of fear? Because when we removed the conditionality, we were told that they could be imposed even later. And then if we have to give up the ESM for posthumous conditionality, we also give up the Sure, because even then posthumous conditionality could be imposed. In fact, since Europe exists only to trick Italy, the same thing can happen, so let us give up the integration fund, which - I remind you - will be extended for nine weeks after the first nine weeks, but then we will need other resources because the crisis will not be over. Even when it starts again, companies will need a third, half or two thirds of the workforce, because they will not leave immediately. I remind you that today they are bound not to be able to fire. When this constraint is removed and there will be the freedom to express the crisis that up to now has not even been free to manifest by companies, it will be dramatic to have no tools and the Sure is indispensable, as well as all the measures at work that we will have to take. Similarly, if the issue is posthumous conditionality, we also give up the recovery fund, those 200 billion and all the resources that can be used for companies. If the principle is that Italy will then be fooled by these of Europe and they will still send us the Troika, this is true of all the instruments. Otherwise explain to us where we have to go to find the resources, finished these 80 billion deviation, in order to be able to raise the economy of our country. Just as I believe that the President of the Council should not listen to the advice of some of his bad advisors within these task forces; many, too many consultants, such as Mazzucato, who proposes that the State aid only undertakings that meet certain conditions. The President-in-Office of the Council himself, who goes to Europe to say 'give me resources without conditions', cannot listen to a woman who says 'we' support them only under certain conditions.' [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Businesses must be supported without whether or not, because they are the only real source of work. At the same time, a state that goes to Europe to ask for non-refundable resources must also think for businesses about non-refundable resources. Resources and liquidity are fine, we extend self-certification for loans of up to EUR 25,000 that we guarantee for loans of up to 800,000, but we also need to think about non-refund support for businesses. It is we Italians, President, who should not tolerate in our country what makes us unbelievable in Europe: justice so slow, President (we no longer talk about it because we are taken by the pandemic), is one of the issues for which we are so unbelievable; the public administration that pays late, sometimes up to 600 days late; the waste of resources with measures such as those of 100 quota, voted by the past Government; the yards blocked. Yesterday I read in an interview Minister De Micheli declare that Genoa is unrepeatable, because there were projects and resources. That is not true, because the EUR 120 billion of blocked public works we have been talking about for months refer to construction sites with projects and economic resources. That model can be repeated immediately and we do not understand why it is not done, since it is one of the central themes. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Comments of Senator De Vecchis]] Not everything is perfect in Europe, President, and indeed we continue to argue with Germany and the Netherlands, but if this extraordinary opportunity opens up, which is the management of the economic resources that we will have at our disposal as a result of this emergency (unfortunately, but we will have access to them) and if we can use those resources, we will have shown that we are up to it. If we do not know how to do so, let us not take it out on Europe, because it will have been our responsibility. We cannot face this challenge with trembling legs, with this ANPAL, with this INPS, with this DAP, with burned resources for incomes for all regardless and without work. We cannot buy companies on behalf of the State and replace entrepreneurs and we cannot use Community funds, as we have often done, by doing works so as not to lose resources. It will be an unmissable opportunity for those resources and we will need them. We should spend it well. While we, the President - and I am closing - are questioning the relatives, the rest of Europe is starting phase 2 seriously. Thucydides described that Athens was destroyed by the fear of the plague and not by the plague. I was concerned about this by listening to the President-in-Office's last press conference. I hope that this government will be up to it instead of being able to cope with the crisis and above all to organize well the restart, because the country needs it. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u13	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u15	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, who more than one representative of the Brothers of Italy would like to speak today in this Chamber looking at the benches of the Government, with the Ministers and the President of the Council present, and to be able to tell them that we have finally done something for this country, we have collaborated and worked for those of our fellow citizens who are suffering. Who more than us, who more than Brothers of Italy, Mr President, today would like to have worked with you, friends of the left, friends of the Movimento 5 Stars. Unfortunately, this was not possible; I do not say it, but the facts say it. And unfortunately, at such a dramatic moment for our country, the benches of the Government - forgive me the esteemed Undersecretaries present, which I know - is not represented even by a minister and not even by the competent Minister, Minister Gualtieri. It's a shame! It is a shame and an affront to the Italians who suffer. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] So, Mr President of the Senate, I am addressing you because I have understood how your experience and your sense of the institutions have perceived the gravity of the moment. I appreciated when at TG1, the first national network, you made it clear that Parliament was excluded. When the second office of the State, on the first national network, has to say that Parliament has been excluded from the choices that affect our country, I believe that this majority should first be ashamed and then resign. You have made an affront to the institutions of the Republic and it is not said by an exponent of Brothers of Italy; the President of the Senate told TG1, interpreting the cry of sorrow and despair that is coming from the productive class of the country, from the workers and citizens, to whom you are instead ridiculing with an arrogance never seen in the history of the Republic. A Republic that sees today that it governs itself through administrative acts, decrees appealable to the TAR, with which a President, moreover not elected by anyone, is deciding in his own way, ignoring Parliament on the fate of our country. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have a DEF, a document which represents an important and extraordinary act. As you have also said, an act that will in debt our country for further - I remind my colleague Pharaoh - not 155, but 55 billion, in addition to 20 and not 25 of the previous decree. A heavy measure, therefore, very heavy. Well this DEF, which - I repeat - does not see the presence of the Government, certifies your inability, your failure before the Italian people. Certified that you've put in numbers that aren't standing up. You speak of an annual GDP of less than 8%, when there are study centres, from accountants to entrepreneurs to banks, which speak at least of a 11-12% reduction in GDP. So your estimates that you carry in the documents you submit to this Parliament, ignored and reproached, are at least 50% flawed. This is neither competence nor seriousness. Proceeding, you have provided guarantees to support of course that liquidity decree, that decree by which you promised 400 billion, moreover you could not promise them when you did it to Italian companies, because you had covered it with 2,750 billion. But today in the DEF you are preparing the bases to put 30 billion in the next decree and, therefore, cover those vain promises that you made a month and a half ago and that still allow our entrepreneurs to have empty pockets. Well, if you had a minimum of knowledge and responsibility, would you have charged those 30 billion in the 2020 budget as standardised guarantees, even in a conservative way, because, if it doesn't matter what the debt ratio is to GDP in 2020, what will it matter in 2021, 2022 and 2023 to have even a zero-point deficit-to-GDP ratio that doesn't fit and unfortunately doesn't shrink? So if, with one hand, you have excluded the VAT guarantee clauses - and I acknowledge that - you have done much more damage, not accounting for credit guarantees for more than 30 billion on the 2020 budget. Measures therefore not effective, that testify to your inadequacy, that inadequacy that, as someone said, is unfortunately the best ally of the virus that is tormenting our country. I would like to say that it is not the Brothers of Italy Group, nor the newspapers of the right that you want so mocked, but it is today's Republic - a newspaper so dear to the friends of the Democratic Party - that bears witness on its pages of your failure. This is testified by the director Molinari who, in a comparison this morning on La7 with your Maurizio Martina, said that the integration fund does not work: I repeat, the director of the Republic has said this, not Feltri, not Brothers of Italy, not the League. Director Molinari said that the credits do not reach the companies and certifies on the Republic that the ESM is anything but light, with your inventions, with the ESM without conditionality. It is read on "the Republic": In the MES the "enhanced surveillance" emerges, that is, what the right, that is, Brothers of Italy, the League and the center-right have always said. This is a MES that wants to cage the country, that definitely wants to eat our businesses, our heritage made in Italy [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And you are complicit in that system of high European finance that wants to kill Italy: it says "the Republic," I repeat, it does not say Brothers of Italy, dear colleagues of the Democratic Party. As I have already pointed out, you have closed the door to any collaboration. You said, "But we all listened." I heard the leader of the Democratic Party Senators Marcucci say on television the other day: The opposition is constructive. Remember, colleagues of Brothers of Italy, of Forza Italia and of the League: we must be constructive. There was no need, however, for President Marcucci to tell us. I just want to remind you, dear friends of the Government and the majority, that listening does not mean ignoring: listening means interacting and cooperating. Then you can be constructive. The center-right, the opposition, with Brothers of Italy who played an important role in the project phase, worked responsibly day and night to propose amendments, variations and proposals: nothing was accepted and you placed trust. You have therefore deliberately and thoroughly ignored any proposal and contribution of the opposition, then having the courage, friends of the Democratic Party, to go on television and say that the opposition must be constructive. You not only mock us, but you ridicule all the Italian people, who you may think have slices of ham on their eyes, but luckily - unfortunately for you - has well understood which government is governed by. As for Europe - Mr Pharaoh has said so much about this - what kind of Europe do you refer to? Perhaps I have mentioned this before, the Europe which has so far ignored your considerations? To that Europe that, while President Conte in recent days came to Italy to say: "Recovery fund." All done. Here we go. Aid in the Nordic and German countries was: Isn't there any mention of a lost fund? Is this Europe that you think you can propose to Parliament and the Italians? This is not the Europe for which our constituent Fathers have worked, it is not the Europe for which the right has always committed itself. Then, if there really were a willingness to cooperate, one would go back to thinking in terms of debt internalization. Instead of thinking about debt only with the ESM and with Europe, let us first think about internalising debt. The example of many countries and of our own Italy in the 1980s, but also that of contemporary Japan shows it. We have to... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] You didn't even open your mouths on this. As you have not even opened your mouth, dear friends of the majority, on the fiscal currency. In this regard, colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, have some dignity, have the courage to rise. With the signature of President Pesco, Senator Lannotti and the Parent Company in the Finance Committee, you have presented a bill on the tax currency that would guarantee less debt. I haven't heard a word in two months from you. You have bowed to the ESM, to the Democratic Party; you do not even care about the fate of your promises, except the fate of the country. You have only foreseen welfare measures, the logic of citizenship income. You have ignored the fact that there is a productive system to be maintained. You had to from the first day - and you just had to copy what Germany did - using the tax registry and not the banks, direct privileged liquidity to Italian production. Instead, you got lost in your bureaucracy. You are lost in the bureaucracy that is blocking and mortally wounding our productive system. I conclude by expressing the explanation of vote of Brothers of Italy. You are certainly inadequate (the President-in-Office of the Council is not, and I repeat this), inappropriate and inappropriate. Your government has certified failure, but we will not allow the country to fail for your faults and responsibilities. In this context, we are therefore in favour of the budgetary deviation so that the funds are given to you, but we declare a vote absolutely contrary to the DEF, because it is a technically unacceptable document, which has no construct, has no political vision and is above all the plastic and iconographic representation of your total failure. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u17	For what, Senator Airola? We are at the stage of explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u18	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am simply speaking on the progress of the work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Airola, we're in an explanation of vote. AIROLA (M5S). I just want to remind this House that the speech by my colleague has not been interrupted, although it is very hard... PRESIDENT. No, Senator, I'm the one who heads the Chamber and I'm taking the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u21	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, our Mixed-LEU Group will vote in favour of the DEF which supports the deviation of EUR 55.3 billion. It is, with the 20 billion maneuver of the Italian care measure, a dimension and an unprecedented effort, to respond to an emergency that has no precedent. I will try to reason and propose to all of us a reflection. We must be able to hold together the health of our citizens and all actions to combat the spread of the virus and new outbreaks, and this does not allow us to underestimate it, but we also know that we must live with the virus, at least until the vaccine, and together we must avoid an economic and social crisis with the risk of truly dangerous social conflicts. The first choice that each political force must make is whether it intends to blow and ride the critical dynamics that exist in society and that we all know, or take charge of this issue. This is the first political issue that we are all called upon to discuss. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] Because the point here is not that the Government is in question: the future of the country is under discussion. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If you get to everyone against everyone, there will be no future for this country. I appreciate the distinctions that have been made in the opposition and I appreciate the fact that the whole opposition is willing to grant the deviation. On the other hand, it is true that we owe, but what else can we do in this situation? Yes, we owe and do it to keep families and businesses up, because this is the way to give the country a perspective. Now, to this question I hope we will be able to give a different answer, all together, than how things are developing. We have to decide whether we can and we have the strength to go beyond propaganda. We need to find a way to make the sense of institutions and the sense of the state prevail first of all, what so many citizens are showing us that they are working in difficult, sometimes precarious situations, to keep this country together. [[Applause from Senator Rojc.]] We have to live up to this. There are criticisms; mind you, I am not saying that unanimity is needed: unanimity in democracy is something that is not necessary. Dialectics and political confrontation are good, but the sense of the institutions is also needed. I would like to tell the friends of the League that what happened yesterday - excuse me - is a picture that hurts this House, the institutions and the whole country. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It doesn't give you anything. I say this in a serious and respectful spirit of different positions: that picture does not correspond to the problems and needs of the country, and we must all take care of it. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] I agree with the role of Parliament, which everyone has stressed; I believe that we must all make an effort on this, and I believe that the Government should also do so, because, if we have arrived here, we cannot simply dump it on the propaganda of the opposition. First of all it is up to us and the Government to take on that sense of project and perspective that is able to attract and correspond to the contributions that come to us from the opposition It takes courage: the courage not to look at the polls, the courage to put before the country. Here, in this case, yes, first of all Italy. We are making an important deviation, a deviation that has to deal with some major issues. First of all, these EUR 55.3 billion must respond to all the problems that are still open to those people who do not have any kind of coverage. Emergency income is not a welfare gift. It is responding to artists, to workers in culture, to discontinuous workers, but also to those VAT matches that have not been answered, to businesses. I say this clearly once and for all: let us not fight against companies; it is clear that companies are the fundamental soul of the economy of our country and we must prevent them from closing. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]] We have to do this in every way. Why do we have to bounce this off? It's true, there are situations that are not right. Liquidity is a key issue for businesses. Colleagues, before the decree arrived, you all said it needed liquidity. The problem is that there are still bottlenecks and we must ask the government - for what it has to and can do - and the banking system to overcome them. The guarantees and counter-guarantees - I mean clearly - do not serve to guarantee past debts but to enable companies to be given resources so that they do not close down. If there's a legal clarification to do, let's do it, and let's do it together. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S and PD.]] Doesn't the crate by way of derogation work? This isn't the first time we've made a waiver. It is not the first time: the crisis of 2012 saw the cash in derogation and the shock absorbers managed by the Regions. If there is a Region, or two, three, ten or all, that does not work, we intervene together regardless of who is the President of that Region and the majority that governs it because the derogation is essential. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups.]] Then there is the theme of strategy. I want to say to the government: let's understand, let's get out of this logic, it's already happened to us and it still happens to us. Open, close, close, open: you have changed your mind. Many of those sitting here have changed their mind according to epidemiological data. Now you have to have a strategic plan, first of all on the timetables. We need to make a timetable plan if we are to avoid gatherings and at the same time give the opportunity to start economic activities; articulating it is a strategic idea, not just for the emergency. I want to give an example. Local public transport is clear that we do not keep it but, lively (I tell the government about linking the emergency to the strategy), we want to make a ten-year plan for the renewal of local public transport [[Applause from Senators Bottici and Perilli]] with the new terms of environmental compatibility, thus reactivated an industrial chain that a few years ago was a flagship in Europe? So we redo the electric buses and build the new economy. No one can think that after this pandemic the problems we had before will not be even bigger problems: ecological transformation of the economy, new productive model, new welfare. We cannot find out now that RSAs or nursing homes or family homes are not adequate compared to the problem we have. In front of us there is the theme of non-self-sufficiency and this country as a whole has a dwarf dimension on non-self-sufficiency. [[Applause from Senator Iori.]] We need an investment plan, colleagues. Covid also teaches us another issue, and I conclude. If someone thought that health care and welfare could be governed by the market, it was wrong! [[Applause from the Mixed LEU, M5S and PD Groups]] Health and welfare are not a business! It's one thing to sell refrigerators. It's one thing to protect children and the elderly. Does this divide us? Yeah, he splits us up! [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u24	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, Mr Misiani, the Democratic Party will approve the Economic and Financial Document with a new debt of EUR 55 billion. It is an emergency DEF, not comparable to those of the other years, which contains impressive figures for 2020. We are saying this: -8 percent of GDP, +1.6% of unemployment, -7 percent of consumption, government debt at 155%. Figures we cannot comment on with conventional accountant lenses. We are saying this: something greater than our rationality is happening. And I, like many, I think, have noticed that the outcome of last Thursday's European Council would not have been neutral for my confidence and expectations; that we could not comment on a negative result or a positive one with the same matrix of emotions. Like Dante in the third song of Purgatory, who no longer sees Virgil's shadow on the ground, is afraid of not being able to continue his journey without a guide that protects him, we were afraid to remain alone; we were afraid that Europe would abandon us; that it no longer believed in its value of high political construction and its united future. No one can diminish the importance of the steps already taken: the suspension of the Stability Pact, the EIB and Sure plans, the large, doubled purchase of securities by the ECB today. But let us be honest in this House: the Italian Government and all of us (of course the Democratic Party) have worked for something different. Today we can say that the decision to set up a fund for the reconstruction of hundreds of billions (we would like it to be a thousand,) is the real decision that lives up to our concerns. The path is not concluded. We need to continue negotiating work, especially to ensure that the fund is operational as soon as possible. I repeat: as soon as possible. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I do not even look at yesterday's unnecessary statements by some Member of the Commission about its entry into force on 1 January 2021. Don't look at them. Europe was not there forty-five days ago: there can be now. A road has reopened that can give legs to a stretch of history still of development, progress and work. We can't waste it. Italy cannot waste it. In a letter of May 1943, Eugenio Colorni wrote to Altiero Spinelli: You planted yourself in the middle of the current. You built your embankment, but little water makes vortex around it. Waters are rapidly moving further. It was the call of those who believed that the only way was to build the European dream, not to impose an ideology on others, but as a true and profound unity, rich in the lifeblood, the reasons for civilization of all the peoples of Europe. It's a very current call. Who, in this dramatic health, social and economic emergency, has marked dangerous hesitations or is still thinking of virtuous countries and not, is forgetting that call. But, worse: who is feeding the idea that this terrible crisis is the opportunity, at last, to choose national sovereignty to the detriment of the European one, not only evades that call, friends and colleagues of the League, but loses its sense resoundingly. The point, then, as today, is that there can only be real reconstruction with a human, social and economic dimension on a European scale. Let's face it: is there really someone here who thinks that the even more difficult global challenge, after this pandemic, can we play it and win alone? Let's not joke about the Italians' skin [[Applause from the PD Group),]] because to do so and to think like this means to joke on the skin of Italians. Do we hear the many voices of citizens and businesses throughout Europe, of those who are daily committed to meeting the interconnected challenges of the economy, the environment, digital and innovation? If we hear them, let's hear them all! In a few days, Italy will resume its journey and it will be complicated, insidious, to monitor, but it must be the path of a recovery of hope. What, then, is our task? Let's start by saying that Fitch's judgment on our country, that Italy is solid, that we are not content with the obvious rebound of GDP of 4.7% in 2021, that we also take the chest of the decrease of 8% of 2020, trying to reduce the loss. Let us say that making a new debt of EUR 55 billion, undersecretary Misiani, is a choice that we do not want to simply liquidate as necessary and that we know that we are putting it on the shoulders of future generations, but that is why we will do everything to stop using it and to make this new debt sustainable. Let us still say that we will not waste a single euro of these new EUR 55 billion. The Government has done well to act in a progressive, gradual and even timely way to contain the contagion and to stem the first negative economic impact, due to the restrictions. Now is the time to plan a longer time, without letting caution become ambiguity and distinctions become divisions or separations. They need feet in today's and head in tomorrow's, where today's means to complete the macro-interventions provided for by the first important decrees care Italy and liquidity: social shock absorbers, fund integration, refreshments, liquidity must work perfectly; Tomorrow means rethinking Italy, with strategic courage, proposing a new social pact. Many proposals have emerged from parliamentary activity in recent weeks and the Government takes this into account. The priorities indicated by the Democratic Party for the next interventions are clear: more investment in the national health system, to contain the virus and therefore to work and reopen safely; substantial resources to the municipalities to keep all essential services active and to keep local communities cohesive; to prevent by all possible means the destruction of productive capacity, to quickly resume the step of growth. We all have friends artisans, traders, professionals, small entrepreneurs, workers in every sector and we are all hearing them. It is true that they are in difficulty, and they must still be helped with adequate refreshments and liquidity, just as the most fragile ones must be helped, as Senator Errani mentioned earlier, with an extraordinary income for the emergency. I mean, it's gonna be tough. None of us can hide it. It will be tough, but we must give certainty, the Government and the majority must give certainty that we will have a solution for each of the Italians. Until a few months ago our future simply seemed to be our projection beyond time, in a linear movement. Since then, many things have been turned upside down. I am convinced that only the youngest will truly enrich the future of content dense of modernity and new paradigms. However, it is up to us to govern the transition and it is also up to this House to do so. Attention: governing the transition, from here to the vaccine and from then on, however, means breaking many of our cultural and technical schemes. If we want to show ourselves to Europe and to the world capable of improving ourselves, if we want to push the country to recover better than estimates, if we want to leave to future generations a more sustainable Italy, we must be consequent, with inevitable choices such as the non-increase of VAT and the launch of tens of billions of euros of public and private investments, also and above all with commitments that give the sense of a political profile: I say this for the majority and for the government. A strong Parliament does not occupy, but thinks and proposes. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] I therefore propose three things to this Parliament: firstly, we are dealing with a reduction in the scope of our public debt with Europe and with the use of the cash deposits and loans for aid to the economy, even out of debt, similar to the German Kfw (Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau), in exchange for the commitment to bring out annually important shares of our undeclared GDP (and I am not talking here about combating evasion, but about accompanying people). Secondly, we increase the productivity of public administration, including by using resources to accompany and reward cities and territories for their ability to regain competitiveness. Thirdly and finally, let us try to build a new democratic climate, respectful of diversity, in which the different institutional levels - or North and South, if we are to say it vulgarly - cease to resort to one another and learn to compete towards common objectives. When that letter was exchanged, in 1943, at the current war, Colorni was thirty-four years old and Spinelli thirty-six. We are the Senate of the Republic, we look up: we have two paths ahead, we can choose whether to honor their teaching, their foresight, the legacy they have left us, the value of their choices, our history or to present irresponsible...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u25	Conclude, please, because we are overflowing abundantly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u26	Mr Ferrari (PD). As with everyone, Mr President; I have concluded. I was saying that we have two ways and we can choose: to honor the value of their foresight or to present irresponsible motions of distrust to the Minister of Economy, as Senator Salvini did. The Democratic Party chooses the first path: it supports the Government and Minister Gualtieri and will help Italy to get back up. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and Mixed Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u27	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u29	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, honourable members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, having two votes scheduled, we immediately anticipate that the League will vote in favour of authorising the use of debt for 2020. These are resources that will go to our citizens, so with a sense of responsibility, as we did on 11 March, we are heading on this path, which is that of the collaboration we hear so much about and discuss: in practice, therefore, I think the League is there. Of course, something more could certainly have been done: we said that in March EUR 25 billion would not have been enough; on this occasion we tell you that the EUR 55 billion of borrowing and therefore of deviation from the medium-term objective will not be enough; perhaps, however, even on this occasion a little more courage could have bought the many citizens who are still waiting for money and resources, which they need to continue to survive. On the front of the document of economy and finance, instead, I understand that it is a particularly delicate phase of emergency and that it is not simple, but, flying over the numbers, for the short parliamentary experience that I have had, undoubtedly the forecasts of the DEF have never been respected at final, let alone if in an emergent phase like this someone can say with certainty how much will increase or decrease the GDP or when we manage to recover; No one knows when this phase will end, so it becomes difficult to dwell on numbers. But let's look at the contents: this document could absolutely contain an idea of economic reconstruction that unfortunately does not contain. It is a weak document, we would have expected something more, we lack the National Reform Programme, for example, which is essential to identify the most important instruments. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I cannot speak for my fellow Members. I am asking whether they can leave the Chamber if they have discussions to do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u30	I would ask you to keep quiet, because this is an important debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u31	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. I wanted to say that, therefore, when you hear from several quarters that crises can turn into an opportunity - many are competing to quote this phrase - we have a historic opportunity to really begin to correct the defects of our Italy system. There are many flaws and they have been seen even when the bureaucracy has not been able to realize the same measures that the Government had put in place. There are many flaws, but to start a real reconstruction you need a magical word called "trust"; also since there is this climate - I heard very well the words of Senator Errani - of collaboration and confrontation, let's put aside the various individual positions momentarily. I quote Luciano Violante, politician, former Italian magistrate and academic, who in a recent interview said: The laws concerning companies consider the entrepreneur to be a socially dangerous subject, to be monitored step by step. I find this absurd that paralyses development. Surveys are carried out to determine how much Italians trust the institutions; I suggest an investigation into how much the institutions trust the citizens. Italian society needs trust. Also for sharing. It is a cultural issue: are we ready to face this challenge in this Parliament? Yes or no? That is the answer we must give the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Excuse me, I don't know if it was wanted or not, but this news from the Director General of the Revenue Agency announcing that from June 1st there will be 8.5 million folders to control our citizens and our entrepreneurs is not the right way to pursue, if we want to change the culture of this country! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] On the contrary, if anything, the fiscal peace speech that I know many people do not like should be revived strongly, but attention: to give confidence to citizens who have gone into difficulties and who with tax peace could restart their businesses is fundamental and the State, since we will then talk about returning from debt, would gain us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] Trusting citizens and businesses means following the model of the Genoa bridge, where bureaucracy has actually demonstrated its true efficiency, because there has been a deviation from the infinite number of rules that have created problems and that create problems for citizens every day. It is also necessary to give aid on investments to municipalities, as the Lombardy Region has done: three billion euros of investments immediately to our administrators to start the projects already ready, because so the machine is restarted. All this, however, forgive me, in the document of economy and finance is seen little. We would also need some statement of principle on the possibility of a strong demand crisis. Many entrepreneurs ask what it takes to lend them money, if then there is no market, given, among other things, that then many of this money that will be able to get them will have to return them in six years and that means having a crisis and a difficulty in recovering for the future. What do you have to do? Use the deficit not only for aid, but also to reduce the tax burden. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Otherwise there is no prospect for the future. This is a unique, historic opportunity; many entrepreneurs say that if you don't do it now, when Italian politics will ever really succeed in doing a serious tax reform that goes in this direction; for us at the League means flat tax, flat tax, unique, simplification, confidence to entrepreneurs [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We need a new pact between the state and companies: the state lowers taxes, clears bureaucracy and on the other hand the entrepreneur takes the commitment to pay them all and to invest in growth and jobs. It is the new pact that we must be able to build. On this the League there is, with its proposals, regardless of the political initiatives that the majority make and that it is right - forgive me the representatives of the PD - also to the opposition to make. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us manifest! With all this restriction of freedom and rights now we just lack that we cannot stay in our workplace! This is absurd. That's crazy! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] All without bothering anyone. I start to conclude because even on the health front, a subject that is touched little, in the document of economy and finance there is something that worries us, because there is a passage in the so-called more unfavourable scenario that if the contagions were to resume, one should necessarily return to a further closure, to a new lockdown. But how? In these two months, is there something that will strengthen the national health system, that will make us ready not to have to close down once again in case the contagions should start again? This is the real issue and there is very little in the DEF about it: is there a strengthening of territorial medicine, of the national network of hospitals, many of which were perhaps being closed for the famous issue of birth points, which could instead be used both to counter the coronavirus and also for the after? Is there a plan? In conclusion, it is not necessary to hide behind the regionalisation of the health service in order to be less responsible, because article 117, paragraph 2, letter q) of the Constitution with the words: "prophylaxis international" gives exclusive competence to the Italian State [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You cannot therefore evoke more powers when those you have are unable to be manifested. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And you know who says that? Your Minister Boccia, who in a reply to a question on the issue of the supremacy clause presented to the House of Deputies, said that even without a clause of supremacy the power of the State could be exercised to the full. Exercise it, take your responsibilities! That's what we're asking you! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Marcucci]] I'll finish by telling Senator Marcucci that if we go see the RSA data... [[Comments of Senator Marcucci]] , those published by the Higher Institute of Health on April 14 with a report, the Region that had the most deaths in the RSA for the Covid-19 is Emilia-Romagna with 57.7 percent of cases and Lombardy comes soon after [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments]] However, to try to make sure that these proposals find concreteness and implementation we all try, first of all the Government, to give us a move, because if we do not find this solution, not only the Government but all of us will end up being overwhelmed by a social uprising. We will, however, vote against the Economic and Financial Document today for the reasons I have just listed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u34	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretaries, in two months in our country, but not only - alas - in our country, the economic and social framework has changed completely. The Covid-19, health pandemic, created mourning, stopped social life, stopped the productive system, stopped incomes and now risks stopping hopes. We, a country of Europe already in difficulty, with a growth that was virtually zero - we were talking about more than 0.1 or 0.2 per cent of GDP - with a huge public debt, bureaucracy, jammed justice and very large marginalization areas - the problem of the South that we still have - we have found ourselves and we are today discussing a budgetary trend with unchanged legislation, which provides for an 8% deficit. Rightly, realizing that the situation is deteriorating all the time, the Government is asking Parliament for a deviation of 55 billion after 20 of a month ago. As expressed in the report on the economic and financial document but also by the rapporteurs, both those of majority and those of opposition Damiani and Ferrero, this further step leads to a deficit forecast for 2020 of 10.4%. It is a huge figure: 75 billion more debt, 3.20 percent of our total debt, but - alas - everything else due to the collapse of gross domestic product. That's the problem, not the biggest debt. It is the collapse of gross domestic product that creates unemployment. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is the collapse of gross domestic product which creates poverty, which means unemployment. Know, however, that Forza Italia does not oppose misfortunes. We are in favour of the greatest debt, we want Italy to rise again. We want to cooperate, but there are many: the confused and disorderly management of the emergency and health care in particular, the propaganda management of economic aid, the reaction of the government in the first phase, when an intervention of three billion had been planned. We asked for 30 billion. The government returned to its footsteps and we reached 20 billion with the so-called Italian care decree. Now the government comes 55 billion. Our proposal is at least 75 because we must not just think about the emergency, we must think about starting again. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Our doubts are due to the confused reaction of the Government that is more typical of those who manage and wait for events than those who have the duty to choose, looking forward to the popular mandate that is received in democracy, but in this case perhaps the popular mandate is ignored or is no longer remembered. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The opposition has not hindered the Government's request for a free hand on the health emergency, on the contrary, when this request was made we granted it. See the management of health care, we talk about state masks. The government can do this and rightly so, we could agree: put them in the monopoly, sell them tobacconists. But do not forbid our companies to also produce masks and garrisons of superior quality than those that kindly - but for a fee - the Chinese provide us. We have offered cooperation and have not been heard. We have also offered it for the liquidity decree in the drafting phase: a media operation, the liquidity decree, with the announcement of 400 billion guarantee for companies that are likely to help those least in need and for nothing those who have the most difficulties. Long is the list for credit. You have therefore created a monster that forgets the young enterprises, those born in 2018-2019 and with a mechanism, that of SACE, that leads to the Greek calende, but also with the famous Cassa Integrazione in derogation to be paid by the 15 of April. Today is April 30th, maybe we passed April 15th. We understand, however, that you are thinking about the assets, at least from the media information, the 8.5 million accounting records already mentioned by other interventions and the bills of light that come for everyone. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Gentlemen of the Government, funds are needed for these interventions, but there are also other variables and one of them is fundamental and very important: time. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Time is central because otherwise you don't get there anymore, you don't need help. Just think about the game time on the credit and if it's rescue, it can't just be credit. Our President, Mr Berlusconi, has been calling for non-profit-making interventions immediately for two months. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The correct word is in fact help at this time, it is not management so much to manage. Otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, as with Covid-19, you are suffocated before the surgery arrives. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we are faced with improvisations without evaluating the substance of the phenomenon to be governed. To date, we can only understand that with the deficit of 10.4% of gross domestic product, we are trying to deal with the emergency of the'stop Italy', taken up by press conference and by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, without parliamentary votes. Let's take a look beyond the Alps at a semi-presidency Republic, where the government first went to Parliament, explained the measures, took the vote, then made the announcements and press conferences. In conclusion, according to Law 196 of 2009, our accounting law, the Document of Economics and Finance, which we bring to the vote today, is represented by three parts, let me face the part of the budget because I miss it; the part of the stability program, which is a bit the photograph related to the analysis of the income and cash account. However, there is also the part about what those who govern want to do; the Government's proposal for the post is totally lacking, with the Minister of Economy both at the hearing and yesterday in the Parliamentary Assembly listed a number of issues that will address the Government later. Of course with the list of technical tables and related proposals with hundreds of characters. The Minister spoke to us about construction sites, bureaucracy, simplification and taxation, also indicating a deadline of about a month. In a month, if the trend is the current one, of total insecurity and without any certainty, the risk is that there are closed companies and many unemployed. That is what we will be dealing with in a month's time. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Colleagues, a final consideration; we are part of something bigger; more territorially, Europe; bigger for agreements, the European Union, with rules that we all want to discuss a little and I appreciate that there is also a serious desire on the part of some majority forces to discuss and evaluate these rules. But we are also part of something even bigger, the Western world, the liberal world. We are also faced with a cultural challenge to find a dimension between what is the ego of liberal and democratic culture, and a us that is used by authoritarian models with social relations that do not belong to us. On our own, colleagues, we cannot do this, but together with those countries that have shared the last half century with us and share the pandemic with us, without giving up our rights and without sacrificing our interests, we can do it. The weakness that we manifest in the face of this invisible, subtle and violent enemy is leading us to recreate, paraphrasing the immunity of flock, the defense of flock, but also to discuss renunciation of personal and political freedom and, on the economic side, individual freedom, that freedom that has produced growth and well-being in the Western world and that has been our home for the last seventy-five years and for us it must remain so. Ladies and gentlemen, this crisis requires us to find a new balance between solidarity and freedom, between collective and individual. We risk losing businesses, jobs, social ties, relationships and family members at a time because we do not have the ability to govern a difficult time. Come on, Italy is here. For these reasons our vote will certainly be in favour of the resolution on budgetary deviation, even if we wanted more, and it will be a firm no to a document of economy and finance that does not express plans and hopes, but only confused management of power. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u37	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, Senators and Senators, Members of the Government, we at Movimento 5 Stars wanted to listen very carefully to the debate and the debate because we realize that we are at a crossroads in history. Unfortunately, however, we must note that we have once again heard ancient words, reflections and considerations exactly the same as those of six months, a year or two years ago. The world, as we have known it so far, will no longer exist, because there is a microscopic virus that has dried its economic lungs. All those ranks of jocks, those riding squadrons marching to the cry "more market and less state," now no longer exist, have vanished. Senator Andrea Cioffi spoke yesterday about neoliberal logic. There are no more, and behind them they have left us smoke, rubble, ash; they have left us field hospitals. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Now everything has become so damn difficult, because now there is a Europe that is discovered without soul. There is a currency without a state and there are states without coins. There are social rights that have been written on paper for a long time and that are coming forward today and require payment of the bill, which is a blood bill, because we need to talk about money here today, but also about blood. In front of you, senators and senators, you have in fact a Document of Economics and Finance that is the most demanding and painful of the last hundred years of Italian history. It's true, those numbers are scary, they're scary and they're all shaky. Even the exasperated narcissism of the small leaders of our home, which until the day before yesterday seemed to have in their pockets the solution of all the problems. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And yesterday and today in Parliament, Senator Romeo, the only thing you could tell us is that we need money and we need to lower taxes: that's the only thing you've been able to tell us in a war context like today. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is your contribution. Of course we need money, of course we need to help businesses. And let's talk about money, let's say, let's talk about it in this House, which has sometimes incarnated the contrast of wealth. This economic emergency has not affected politics at heart, it has struck ordinary people in their hearts. Money has never been lacking in the political class; the political class has always had money. And even those who falsely denounced the closure of the Senate weeks ago [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The salary didn't turn him down. I repeat, the salary was not refused. You think that at this moment in the world there are parliamentarians who are cutting their salaries. [[Live comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Shame on you! You're from the lega banks. How dare you? What do you know? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Everyone, ladies and gentlemen, please state what they think is appropriate. [[Comments from the Group L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI.]] LICHERI (M5S). In many states, parliamentarians are cutting their salaries: they call it a gesture towards the community. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u38	Don't make me suspend the session. Let's finish the co-worker. Each one expressed what he felt.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u39	Please, Senator Licheri, finish your speech. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Senator Licheri, continue. LICHERI (M5S). As I said, at this time in many states Members are cutting their salaries and calling it a gesture... [[Comments from the Group L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u40	Please, everyone has been able to express themselves without being interrupted. Let Senator Licheri continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u41	LICHERI (M5S). The same proposal was presented by the Movimento 5 Stars and obtained the contempt of politicians and the indifference of newspapers. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Look, many of my colleagues and I are still in the first parliamentary term and we've learned a lot. Mr Urso (FdI). You're in the government, work! LICHERI (M5S). But one of the things we have... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u42	Colleagues, we can't go on like this. We can't go on like this. Everyone has to say what he thinks. Everyone has expressed their opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u43	Continue, Senator Licheri. LICHERI (M5S). I was saying that, in these first two and a half years, people in the first legislature have learned a lot. One of the things we have learned is that in Parliament, often and willingly, when it comes to money, we always talk about the money of others and never about their own money. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's not fair. Does it take more money? It's true, it takes more money. There is the biggest economic maneuver ever in that deviation to the budget. That is true, and there are so many non-refundable aid that we are putting in, and I will not list them for a reason of brevity. But I want to focus only on one of these measures, regarding solidarity: emergency income, that is, an income for all those who have not been able to enter the protective hat of the State until now. And blessed be the sky that two years ago the Movimento 5 Stars introduced the income of citizenship. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Giammanco, you lost your citizenship income yesterday, but without the citizenship income you would have had under the windows the forks of despair at this point. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Senator Romeo, Senator Pagano, Senator Centinario, you are right to say that in Italy there is the scourge of bureaucracy and backwardness of public offices. The INPS performed an authentic Italian miracle: it hesitated in four weeks a number of questions that it would normally deal with in five years. It's a miracle, do we realize that? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Too bad, however, that those who point the finger at the backwardness of the Italian public offices are precisely those that those offices have suppressed and that have taken away their resources. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They have turned away the capable and the deserving and promoted the friends of the parties, the voters. This is the situation we are in today. [[Comments.]] We do not accept that someone in this House should tell us what is the despair outside these walls, because the Movimento 5 Stars was born in despair, we were born in a historical condition of despair and social and economic exasperation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We know very well the exasperation: Save the Children, two days ago, told us that at the end of the emergency a million children will fall below the absolute poverty line. And Pope Francis... [[Comments]] Mr President, this is difficult. You cannot keep the line of speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u44	Please. Please, Senator Licheri.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u45	LICHERI (M5S). Let's see if by quoting the words of the Holy Father we can calm the atmosphere a bit. The Holy Father two weeks ago wondered... [[Comments]] Can I continue? Shall we try it? Mr President, will you give me your floor? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Yes, Senator Licheri. LICHERI (M5S). I said the Holy Father... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u46	I'd like some silence. I want to hear Senator Licheri's report end without interruption. Please, Senator Licheri.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u47	LICHERI (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. I said that the Holy Father, a few weeks ago, wondered whether it was not appropriate to think of a form of universal pay that would secure all the professional categories, even the workers of the most humble tasks. And if someone at this moment and in these words of Pope Francis glimpses the principles of a battle that we of the 5 Star Movement have been carrying out for a long time, that of guaranteed minimum income, let him say, because now is the time to imagine our future. We can dare, we can risk more. I am now addressing the Government, because the Government must find more courage within itself and must take an example from the courage of our citizens, because Italy today has a different self-awareness. We stopped seeing each other as the others saw us and began to look at ourselves for what we are: a united people, a strong people, a courageous people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And, then, authoritative government representatives, let's move away from the budget, but let's do it to draw a new future. We begin to think of new jobs, new working models and we begin to realize a solidarity economy, a healthier environment. Let us finally tear health to the consorteries and take back the right to health that we had lost for too long. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Perhaps now we have understood the lesson: in front of the great diseases the antidote is not in one, two or ten vaccines; it is simply in living respecting the balances of a Planet. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Italian citizens are now a model for other nations. Then comes the time when citizens give the government the courage they have shown: it is true, you have a mountain to climb, government lords, and someone is betting against you. Someone bet on the virus, someone bet against Giuseppe Conte for his short political destiny. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But we at Movimento 5 Stars vote in favour because all the men and women of Movimento 5 Stars prefer to bet on the extraordinary abilities of this unique, amazing, wonderful country. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u48	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. Motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I would warn you that an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly is required for this resolution. The vote on the motions for resolutions will therefore take place by electronic means by simultaneous ballot. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the Government representative gave a favourable opinion on the motion for a resolution No 101, tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u51	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking under Rule 102 (5) of our Rules of Procedure, which reads as follows: If the text to be put to the vote contains more than one provision or refers to more than one subject or object or is in any case capable of being distinguished in several parts having its own logical meaning and normative value, the vote by separate parts is allowed, or the one that allows us, by voting the first part, the so-called vote of the kangaroo. Therefore, in relation to Resolution No 100, of which I am the first signatory, I call for the split vote, i.e. to vote the first part until the words "to the medium-term objective" (OMT) are used; the second part from the words "to the end." I say this not only from a technical point of view, but also from a political point of view: our commitment authorizes the Government, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, to update the return plan towards the medium-term objective (MTO) or the so-called deviation. It is the same content as the resolution tabled by the majority, which is why we cannot ask for support for the deviation and say that we vote for what you decide and not for what others propose. If you vote for this first part and it is approved, the Minister is authorized and so the Government. Then there is the question of the second part, which relates to the ESM speech. We have done everything we can: we have not voted on the President-in-Office's communications, but we have opted for information so that we do not have to vote on the ESM. On the ESM, however, sooner or later, a comparison will have to be made. It will happen now, on the next amendment. There are opposition forces that are in favor, there are majority forces that are in favour and some are against. Each will take a position. I therefore ask this House to allow separate votes and, at last, to be able to express itself. In conclusion, I quote what is published today, not in a center-right, philo-legist or sovereignist newspaper. I'm talking about the Republic. In the ESM the "enhanced surveillance" appears. In particular, there is the final passage on which the negotiations are concentrated from here to 8 May. The sentence is technical. Toninelli (M5S). How much are you talking about? Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I have three minutes to present my proposal, so shut up. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u52	Colleagues, let me hear Senator Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u53	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). The European Commission will clarify monitoring and surveillance in accordance with the two pack rules. An obligatory passage from the Treaty of the European Mechanism which implies enhanced supervision by the Commission itself and the ECB. A reference to the old Troika (the International Monetary Fund is missing) which in theory could lead to the demand for a painful macroeconomic adjustment programme. This is the Republic. I read Greece here. I therefore ask the House to express its views on the possibility of voting for separate parts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u54	Senator Calderoli, she correctly quoted article 102, paragraph 5, which provides for the possibility of voting for separate parties when they are enclosed, in a resolution, more concepts. Now, it does not seem to me that there are two concepts in your motion for a resolution. This is deduced, not only in the disposition part, but also in the motivation part. I'll explain. When you say: "Authorizes the Government to update the return plan without resorting to the instrument of the European Stability Mechanism to finance this deviation," this is a subordinate. You come to say that you authorize the Government to deviate, provided that you do not use the ESM instrument to finance this deviation. Therefore, there are not two separate parts that can be voted on, but it is a unique concept and it also says so in the proactive part. In fact, you assume: In this report - the Minister's report - reference is made to the need to pre-constitute the conditions for the availability of additional resources in order to ensure the financing of any further initiatives. This means that I plan to approve the deviation under certain conditions. Therefore, it is a subordinate who goes to illustrate the possibility of a vote in favour only on condition that there is no recourse to the ESM. That is why I do not believe that separate votes are admissible.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u57	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we normally vote separately on the common part of an amendment, which is absolutely meaningless. If it is approved, all the second parties shall be voted, in the event that it is rejected, no vote shall be taken. So if the first part of my motion for a resolution were rejected, the second part would lapse. The first part has an accomplished meaning. The deficit, or the deviation, requires additional resources, because otherwise there would be no talk of deviation and in the last part it is said how to find them. The first part says you move away, then you say you don't use that instrument. If the first part is rejected, the second part is not voted. I ask you, and I will give you a reply, since when you are called upon to vote on the Rules of Procedure, you must vote on this House and make it decide whether or not it is right to vote on separate parts, since this House is always sovereign. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u58	Senator Calderoli, I believe and I repeat that your motion for a resolution has been written in such a way that it does not require the autonomy of the two parties. You say that you only authorise yourself on condition that, and therefore I cannot have a party who has a subordinate vote, clearly saying that it approves of the deviation, provided that there is funding and that the resources cannot be taken from the ESM. There is no conceptual autonomy between the two sides. Since we are not there, I do not think that we can proceed to a split vote. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 100, tabled by Senators Calderoli and other Senators, to the report, pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). [[Senators present 241 Senators voting 240 Favorables 75 Contrari 158 Absent 7]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). CRUCIOLI (M5S). I would point out that the electronic detection system did not work in the previous vote, but I wanted to abstain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 101, tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, to the report, pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012. (The vote was followed). [[Senators present 278 Senators voting 277 Favorable 276 Contrari 1]] The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from Groups M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Senators Romeo and Galliani.]] The motion for a resolution No 102 tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators is not included. We move on to motion for a resolution No 1 to the Economic and Financial Document, accepted by the Government, on which amendments have been tabled, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u59	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment No 1.1, leaving out the others to discuss it in an explanation of vote, because I believe it is asking for what should be the rule that a government and a rule of law apply. I read: "After the words "engaged the Government" insert the following: "to ensure the strict respect of constitutional principles in matters of legislative power of the Executive and of control of the Parliament and, therefore, to give priority, for the determination of public policies of support and revival of the economy, to the instruments of ordinary legislation, even of urgency, compared to the use of regulatory sources, of a secondary nature;" Yesterday we heard President Zanda's speech, with a strong reference to the centrality of Parliament. Now, our Constitution is made by the twelve fundamental principles, by Part I, and by the rights and duties of the citizens, and by Part II, the Order of the Republic. With a single decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, except Article 12 on the Tricolor, which has not yet been touched on, all other principles and rights have been compressed or limited through an administrative act. I read authoritative constitutionalists, including Vladimiro Zagrebelsky, who says that unlike other Constitutions our state does not provide the state of emergency as a basis for special derogations from the functioning of the powers of the State and the rights to freedom of persons. Our constitutional system, however, analytically establishes that for this or that right of freedom limitations are possible in view of legitimate needs, such as health or public security. Central, in the system, is Parliament, because any limit that is desired or must be imposed on rights must be laid down by law. President Cartabia, Professor Panebianco, President Emeritus Marini spoke: fundamental principles are inalienable and untouchable. Some may be limited according to a law and not an administrative act. We understand the state of the emergency, the need to intervene, but this amendment creates the assumption that this, under normal conditions, will no longer happen, because if anyone wants to intervene he must do so with a law, with a decree-law and not with an administrative act which, if necessary, will have to be dealt with by the regional administrative court and certainly not by Parliament. Regions, local authorities, associations, trade unions and Parliament have never been involved in these acts. It is a reminder of what to do in the future and therefore to take note that it is the people's elected and not the task forces appointed to decide. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u60	Mr President, my Group has tabled a number of amendments and, first of all, we note that the most important result that has already been achieved on this day, which is to allow the deviation, so to allow the interventions that are absolutely necessary during this period of emergency, has passed thanks to the decisive vote of the centre-right. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] In the first vote, in fact, there were only 158 votes by the majority of the government, while there would be 161 votes and there were many more thanks to the decisive contribution of the center-right, which showed a sense of responsibility, putting the interests of the citizens first without looking at the signing of the proposal. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We do not agree with this Economic and Financial Document, so we have tabled amendments, in particular those aimed at helping taxpayers and businesses. Many taxpayers, many companies are on their knees, are wounded by this closure and uncertain reopening, which we do not know when it will happen and, above all, what results it will have. When there are taxpayers and companies on their knees, who are injured, they cannot be beaten, but they must be helped. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We propose a pact for a tax pact for a reduction of outstanding loads, for a possibility of deferment of payments over five years. It's an investment for the state. Why demand payments now? We hear from the Agency about the revenue of thousands, hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of tax-paying folders: to demand money immediately means to make companies fail, to make dozens, perhaps hundreds of thousands of workers lose their jobs. Instead, granting delays and a reduction means that the state will collect and do so when it is human to ask these companies and these taxpayers to pay what will be due, with the due reduction. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] In addition, I would like to say something about this period of difficulty and recovery which we hope will come soon and with clear rules, no longer with things written through these terrible experts of the task forces, which clearly are not able to write the rules. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] They too, in fact, cause ministers to quarrel with heads of cabinet and with the President of the Council, each gives his interpretation, then the Forces of order to apply them, to take responsibilities that should be of the Government and to many citizens who think to observe the rules happen to be fined with heavy sanctions, with the reasoning to say that they will then resort. Meanwhile, the little money someone might have had in the house ends up in unfair fines. To accompany the recovery, we ask to allow an instrument that can easily give way to jump the bureaucracy; then, after the emergency, everyone will return to be of his ideology, to say that everything must be regulated, stiffened. We allow the use of vouchers in agriculture, for babysitting, for all those jobs [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You cannot think of tightening up the labour market at a time like this, it really means giving up against the Italians, giving up against those who want to work. Let's give those who receive the income of citizenship to go to work, to find those opportunities that we hope soon there are and not to perceive the money by staying at home, taking more than those who have always contributed and have always worked. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u61	The remaining amendments are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments under consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u62	Mr President, I am against all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u63	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur. [[Ironic applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Bravo!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u64	We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u67	BUCCARELLA (Mixed). Mr President, on 4 March 2020 we voted in this House to convert Decree-Law No 6 of 2020, whose Article 3, paragraph 1, authorized the President of the Council and the other regional authorities to provide with reference to the limitation of constitutional rights precisely indicated in Article 1 of the Decree-Law in question, by issuing the decrees of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, or the ordinances that could be - and were also issued - by the Presidents of the Region. I therefore express my personal explanation of vote against Amendment No 1.1, although I take an abstract view of the spirit which, in practice, runs counter to a parliamentary affair which has taken place here and which has also seen the absence of votes against, because everyone, including President Calderoli, voted in favour, like most of this House: 234 votes in favour, 5 abstentions, 0 against. This is because at that time, perhaps now less, there was the awareness that having to face a health and economic crisis that was beginning to take shape and whose contours were unknown at the time even more than they are now, and therefore the political forces have been consistent in this assumption of responsibility, authorising the Government and the Presidents of the Regions to provide in an elastic, fast and dynamic way to the contrast of the spread of the contagion. Therefore, in contesting the concrete content of the amendment before us, I voted against by reminding the House that the whole of Parliament, including the other House, had voted in principle unanimously in favour of this measure. It remains firm, clearly, the provision that requires the same government decrees to be subjected to the examination of constitutional legitimacy and I imagine that there will be judicial appeals that will also affect the Constitutional Court on the content, but regarding the form of the government's measures, even in the matter of limitations of constitutional rights, I really believe that the controversy that is rising is unfounded, so my vote is against. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u70	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to explain the view of my Group - and not just of my Group by now, I would say of the majority of the legal doctrine - on this issue in particular. The fact that there has been an emergency vote in favour of the allocation, with an open intervention clause, of power to the President of the Council of Ministers is a fact, it is in the Minutes and cannot be denied, but conferring power does not mean conferring an abuse of power. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Group]] That this power has been exercised irresponsiblely and in contempt of Parliament, also raising the issue of a conflict of attribution which must be raised at this point, is also a fact and is proven by the fact that, subsequently, the President of the Council of Ministers himself, we do not know why, whether by intimate joy or by solicitation of those who had the power to solicit it, he felt that he had to remedy this irregularity by intervening with the instruments that the constitutional order provides for, i.e. with the instrument of the decree-law. These considerations disassemble any argument of the type: "You have been you." We can also put this idea aside. Are we going to say that it was naive of Parliament to rely on a prime minister who acted with this unscrupulousness? Let's just say that. Let us not throw on this opposition, which today has also proved to be responsible, giving you those votes that you lacked to do what was necessary (and that you are doing badly) to promote the revival of the country, the responsibility for the abuses of a character that by now monocratically claims to govern the country as a despot not particularly enlightened. Okay? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP Group]] That is the meaning of the amendment: it also served to save the dignity of this institution that we care about, we will see it to others with the vote. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u73	Mr Quegliariello (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, in terms of law and constitutional terms, a decree-law cannot be delegated without setting limits and deadlines. We found ourselves at an absolutely exceptional time, when the pandemic broke out, and as has also been mentioned here today we have a Constitution which does not provide for exceptionality, unlike other countries, such as Hungary, for example - where the exception status is envisaged and therefore can be used in case of necessity - or France. In addition to this difficulty, which has been dealt with with with an act of trust and responsibility on the part of the whole House, there is the issue of political opportunity and common sense. We have all followed yesterday's debate and also the voices that have been raised authoritatively by the majority. These rumors say that one thing is the emergency, another thing is the prospect of the future: they are two absolutely distinct moments. And if it is possible to make full use, even beyond what would be expected and possible, of the availability of this House at a time of emergency, then we should have a good sense of setting up clearing houses when there is a prospect of a return to the future. Friends of the majority, I believe that this is a further opportunity and a further opportunity that comes to you in some way: that of giving a sign to all of us who have understood and that certain things must be done together and must be done in Parliament. I would like, Mr President, to remind those who are more pro-European than me of what is happening in other democracies which have far less parliamentary constitutions than our own. In France there is semi-presidency and, if we read the Constitution of the Fifth Republic, the part about the executive power comes before that reserved to the legislative power. Yet, there a Prime Minister had the goodness to go to Parliament and say: I do not say a word about the reopening of the country before I have spoken to my Parliament and received a vote from my Parliament. The same thing happened in Spain. We cannot fail to consider what has happened here and to give a sign as a Parliament. We must move from words to deeds. We have to say that we want to go back together and we want to have clearing houses. If a Government of National Salvation is not possible, which is also considered in the post-war period, at least places where conflicts are settled and decisions are taken together should be necessary. Mr President, all this was imagined even when the Cold War broke out and there were conflicts far deeper than there are today. The constituent assembly served this: a restart together. Today, even those who, including myself, do not fully adhere to that Constitution, recognize that that moment was important. Amendment 1.1 simply has the sense of saying that Parliament is there and wants to give a sign; we have overcome the emergency, we make this House a clearing house in order to be able to leave together. The vote against is in some way a slap that is given to the oppositions, a further slap. And look, this cannot be a conference for Skype, where the amendments are decided, as if it were a vol-au-vent. It is too little, there is a need for a clear sign and a clear vote, and this is the opportunity that perhaps we should not let go of. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Lunesu.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u75	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u76	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking for an explanation of vote on Amendments 1.1, 1.2 and 1.8, which my Group disagrees with. I too believe, as has been stated earlier, that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers is not the right instrument for limiting constitutional rights, because of course this cannot be done by an administrative act. Instead, I believe that there are appropriate instruments such as the urgent decree. However, I do not understand why the debate in the resolution for the Economic and Financial Document has opened, while there will be time and place to talk about this subject in the conversion of Decree-Law No 19. For this reason, since I agree with the content, but not with the form in which the debate was opened, I shall therefore abstain in the vote on amendments 1.1, 1.2 and 1.8.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u77	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.2, tabled by Senators Calderoli and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.8, tabled by Senators Candiani and Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u80	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since the first vote following the vote on the budget deviation, if the numbers are numbers, I must note that the majority alone does not have the numbers for the deviation, there are no saints. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] So there are no majorities in the Senate to do certain operations. In the same way, despite the freedom of a senator, I have seen no participation in the vote, heavy and important abstentions compared to the vote of amendment 1.1, and this makes me well hope that a minimum of critical and political conscience within the Senate has remained. Returning to Amendment 1.3, while earlier we were not allowed, because of the lack of availability of the split vote, now this amendment is clear and round to add, in the end, the following words: "excluding any recourse to the instrument of the European Stability Mechanism". Now let the donkey fall: if one votes in favour, he does not want the ESM; if one votes against, he says yes to the ESM. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He can do it in a consistent way. I don't accept the story of the unconditional MES anymore and why I just read it. You want to vote against. I am sure that the Italia Viva-PSI Group will vote against, like the PD and Forza Italia, firmly. But I want to see those who claim to be against the ESM and vote in favour. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator De Bertoldi. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u81	Colleagues, please sit down and don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u82	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm sorry, but the king is naked. I find remarkable resemblance between President Conte and Prime Minister Tsipras, and little I see between Minister Gualtieri and Varoufakis. I see the Undersecretary, however, who sees it. Of people who are willing to resign here for an ideal, I really don't see it. For the love of the chair, stay here. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI groups and Senator Rizzotti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u85	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I note that, according to Senator Calderoli, who concludes a whole chain of people in good order, at least seventy-two times, according to their thesis, we would have voted for the ESM. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I'm gonna go eye-to-eye. And it is not trivial what has been said. Also in the House continue to say "don't do this" and repeat the word "MES" but then say that we signed it. There is a logical contradiction, so try to clarify your ideas, because even the traps from the verbal and rhetorical point of view, which instrumentally try to pick up consensus (when you are in decline of consent), then by force of things have a term. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] People have understood very well the game you are playing with the use of the word "MES". Do not go to the substance and you know very well - the President of the Council has come - that we will vote on this issue. But every time you have to say that we activated the MES and signed it. And then the President-in-Office of the Council rightly says: I'm sorry, I have to tell you: it's bullshit. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u88	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that the measure is objectively full. Since yesterday we have seen provocative attitudes on the part of the League, which make fun of Parliament: from fake occupations to all sorts of things - which obviously were not, but perhaps are when Parliament is closed and therefore useless - to a series of presentations of exclusively instrumental amendments. That their goal, at the most dramatic moment of the country, in which the Government and Parliament seek the necessary resources to get out of the health and economic crisis [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] , both mocking us all, tells us that the measure is full. If nothing else, the presentations of these instrumental amendments, which have only the purpose of mocking the country, should create an attitude of outrage and have created it: we really can't, we can't any more of your games on the skin of Italians. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]] Allow us. The majority will be consistent, determined and united in the interest of Italy. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u89	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senators Calderoli and Candiani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.4.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u92	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, this amendment - in our opinion - is significant of what the majority consider to be the concept of cooperation and sharing. It is narrative and discursive, being an amendment to the DEF and not technical; it speaks of the possibility of issuing special government bonds aimed at internalising public debt, journalistically called patriotic BOTs. It is an idea born in recent weeks from many economists that we have supported; it has the aim to mobilize the enormous private savings of Italian families towards Italian government bonds. It is a way to counter the epidemic, to raise money and to have as much debt as possible held by Italian families, rather than by foreign speculators of business banks, who use debt to attack the Italian economy and the freedom of movement of our politics and the government itself. It's a good idea, an idea of common sense that you can work on. It is not a sovereignist idea - I am referring to a few previous speeches by colleagues - because, changing the name, it is the same idea that last Sunday on the largest Italian financial newspaper ("Il Sole 24 Ore") launched the largest Italian banker, the managing director of Banca Intesa Messina, who spoke about social bonds or social government bonds precisely for this purpose, i.e. with the aim of collecting at least 500 billion Italian private savings in more years. Today I have read - and I think my colleagues will have read it too - the statements made by Dr. Iacovoni, a senior Treasury executive responsible for the debt office, in an interview with MF Milano Finanza, in which he says that there will be for the first time issues of a new title, which we could call a sort of patriotic BTP, whose collection will be intended to cover the expenses for the contrast to the pandemic. I wonder then why the stubborn obstinacy of the Government in opposing even proposals of common sense by oppositions, except then to take charge of it and title it, as happened also for the reduction or cancellation of VAT on emergency sanitary products. It would take a little more common sense and intellectual honesty if we called for cooperation between the majority and the opposition, because this will remain in the act. The common sense proposals are all set aside, except then do the opposite the next day. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u95	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on a point of order. Yesterday I tried to convince everyone of the strict respect of the provisions of our Senators Quaestors, who studied the positions from which each Group representative can intervene without endangering his neighbours. I therefore ask all my colleagues to come down from the benches and use those stations which are precisely planned for our interest.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u96	I add to this correct recommendation by Senator Calderoli the other recommendation repeated since yesterday, because I often see crowds in the middle of the House, people who talk too close. There has been a very great effort on the part of our Senators Quaestors to prepare the Chamber and the Forums so that there would be the distance required. So, please, let's respect their work. Mr. Undersecretary, you speak with the mask down. So, I would also ask you to stick to what are the rules that obviously apply to everyone. Our Senators Quaestors can have people settled according to the order that has been established. This is about everyone's health, ladies and gentlemen. We are not talking about it because we have the pleasure of taking this or that back. This concerns the health of the whole House. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4 tabled by Senator Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Bernini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.7 tabled by Senator Bernini. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris and Pharaoh. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] The motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani is therefore not included. Colleagues, I would point out that the sitting will resume at 1.30 p.m. and no longer at 12.30 p.m., as planned. [[Brusio.]] Colleagues, if you stand still, you can receive information. Therefore, the sitting will resume at 1.30 p.m., due to an accumulated delay in the Chamber of Deputies, with the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the initiatives of the Government for the resumption of economic activities. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.25 p.m. and resumed at 13.36 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u97	The next item is: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the Government's initiatives for the recovery of economic activities I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u98	Mr President, kind senators and senators, only nine days have passed since my last information to the Chambers and I return here again to Parliament to report on the initiatives taken by the Government with a view to the resumption, in particular, of economic activities. We are facing an emergency - we have said it several times - which has no precedent in our republican history and is also testing all the more advanced democracies, which are largely affected by this epidemic. We are forced to reconsider the models of life, our ordinary relationships, to remedy our work, to rethink our model of development, to plan a revival of our social, economic life, in all dimensions. These are days when the debate, also critical, on the decisions taken, on the regulatory instruments with which the decisions have been taken and even on the communication with which the measures are communicated and disseminated are lively. The liveliness of the debate also reveals the strength and vitality of our country, of our democratic system and also of the system of balances and guarantees. In my speech I will follow the following order: first I will explain the guidelines of the Government taken at this stage of the resumption of economic activity, then the objectives pursued, the reasons that led to these choices, but last I will also focus on the issue of the constitutional compatibility of the decision to entrust to the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers the adoption of restrictive measures and, unfortunately, also some fundamental freedoms of citizens. I move from a premise: the government has always understood the gravity of the moment and for this very reason it has never intended to proceed on an extemporaneous, improvised, or even solitary basis. The measures used so far are the result of a careful consideration of all the values involved, of a careful balance of all the interests at stake, in the awareness - moreover - that almost all the interests at stake have a constitutional rank. All the measures, moreover, have been adopted at the outcome of a wide and shared intercourse - this also applies to the last measure - with the other members of the Government - of course - and in particular with the heads of delegation representing the political forces of majority, but also with a broad involvement of the social partners and also with a close confrontation with the representatives of the territorial authorities, several times gathered in a cabin of direction of which are part of the delegates of the Regions, the Provinces and the Municipalities; a chamber of direction in which I myself took part together with the Minister of Health Roberto Speranza and the Minister for Regional Affairs Francesco Boccia. Parliament has also always been constantly and dutylessly informed, all the more so in the most delicate passages, as my presence shows, but also that of the other Ministers, on several occasions here in the Senate and also in the House. I have anticipated from the outset that the Government has immediately adopted an approach of method and merit that provides for constant comparison with the experts of the Technical and Scientific Committee, so as not to delegate decisions to experts, scientists, but - quite different - to lay a scientific foundation on the decisions that the Government has taken in turn and of which obviously it has always and will always continue to assume full responsibility, not only political, but legal and so on. Some may object that the state of scientific knowledge of this new virus was incomplete when we left and is still not fully satisfactory; they may object that scientists themselves have expressed a variety of positions and assessments and we have heard them also expressed on the media. It is, however, one thing to take free opinions as the basis of your decisions; it is another thing to take on the basis of your decisions accurate research and studies and therefore a principle of scientific knowledge, no matter how much this is still fully consolidated. The ancient philosophy, from Plato to Aristotle, distinguished the doxa, the opinion, the belief or in any case the perceptible knowledge with the senses, from the epistem, the knowledge that instead has certain scientific bases. It is a categorical imperative for a government called to face this emergency, which must protect the health and life of its citizens in the face of such a concrete and so lethal threat, to lay at the foundation of its decisions not already the free, changing and even legitimate opinions that can be held and that gradually prevail and follow in the public opinion, but the recommendations resulting from the meditated reflections of qualified representatives of the scientific world. There is a recent report which continues to be classified as secret, but what a secret it is because it has already been published in the newspapers and - I think the time has already passed - it has also been the subject of a specific press conference - at least as it was planned - by Professor Brusaferro of the Higher Institute of Health, which has illustrated it in detail in public. In this recent report by the Technical and Scientific Committee that is being discussed these days, it is estimated that the simultaneous reopening of all economic activities, schools and all opportunities for sociality from May 4 would lead to an uncontrolled exponential increase in contagions. The measure of the sacrifices made by our citizens - as you know - can be summarized in what is now known to all: R with 0, that is the rate of spread of the contagion that to date is estimated in a range between 0,5 and 0,7. If this rate were to return even slightly above level 1, the current number of beds in intensive care, which are about 9,000, would be saturated by the end of the year. We must consider, however - and this should not be overlooked - that not all current intensive care stations can be used for the Covid-19, but must also be dedicated to other pathologies. We, in this health emergency - as many health officials have told me directly - have focused a lot on the coronavirus and the citizens themselves have tried to resist not to show up in the emergency room, but many other pathologies, of course, require intensive care. This means that we would have the availability of intensive care posts within a few months. The impact on our health system, therefore, would be considerable in this perspective and this would, in all likelihood, lead to the need to reverse the trend towards reopening activities, resulting in even worse economic consequences than we already have and are still experiencing. It follows, therefore, that the precautionary principle, which this Government has not invented because it has very solid scientific and also legal bases in the internal and unitary order, and the cautious and careful containment of the contagion are in the first place the right and necessary measure to guarantee our health but they are also, secondly, the main instrument that we have to make our economy restart to the best and in safety, without exposing ourselves to potential, probable even but painful setbacks in the future. Experts tell us that there are four main factors for the growth of contagions: family contacts, workplaces, school and community relations. As far as family contacts are concerned, I would remind you that about a quarter of the contagions originated in the family and, of course, the State does not have the possibility - and of course we do not have any will - to monitor and control family relations. We then have the workplaces and in this case we all know that we cannot afford a prolonged lockdown, because it would seriously and even more seriously compromise our socio-productive fabric. Then we have the school, where we got the best results, obviously at the price of closing our institutions and moving to distance teaching. Finally, there are community relations: in this case too, the measures of physical and social distance have been very valuable to contain the contagion, in the awareness, however, that obviously we cannot impose such restrictive measures for long. This consideration makes it clear why a non-progressive approach to reopening would lead to a rise in contagion and make the underlying reasons for the government's choices equally clear. Keeping the frequency of family contacts constant, it is clear that if schools were to be reopened simultaneously, if they were to be allowed to return to all workplaces, if social relations, including those within public establishments, were to be allowed without restrictions, this would inevitably be tantamount to giving impetus to the growth of contagions through all four factors of spread of the epidemic. For this reason, which I will explain in detail, the Government has made a choice: it has decided to loosen the measures that had led to the arrest of many production chains. He chose to start again from work, obviously assuming that all security measures are taken on the basis of strict protocols, which were requested by the Government itself and were fully shared with the trade unions and employers' organizations. And I would once again like to thank all these organisations and all the social partners, because throughout this phase of emergency they have always shown great responsibility and a great spirit of sacrifice, putting aside some cares, let's say, more leniently corporatistic and focusing on the good of all citizens. In the light of the recommendations of the Technical and Scientific Committee, the date of 4 May 2020 marks the beginning of what is now known as phase 2, a gradual and progressive return to the development of productive and commercial activities. It is a necessary first fundamental step for so many citizens, for families, for workers and for entrepreneurs, so that the whole country can walk on the path of regaining a life as normal and serene as possible, always keeping in mind that this new phase will be - I have already said and I repeat - a phase of coexistence with the virus and not of liberation from the virus. We're still in the pandemic. We didn't get out. Our country has fought hard and painfully and has made many sacrifices to counter the advance of the virus. Since the discovery of the first outbreak we have had to face pain for the loss of more than 27,000 of our loved ones, with an incremental trend that is manifesting the first signs of inversion only in these last days, thanks to the strict containment measures adopted so far. Equally hard has been the test faced by our healthcare professionals because of the dramatic pressure that the spread of the epidemic has produced on the hospital structures (we all remember the images) and, more generally, on the maintenance of our national health system. To them I renew and renew all - I imagine - our most heartfelt thanks. [[Applause]] If today the violence of the epidemic shows the first signs of reduction, we cannot afford that the efforts made by our citizens, by doctors, nurses, workers and essential services workers, by women and men of the Armed Forces, by the Forces of Order, Civil Protection and by all those who have allowed the country in the past few weeks to support themselves, may be in vain for imprudence carried out in this complex, delicate and sensitive phase. Any obnoxious attitude, such as moving from the policy of closing everything to that of opening everything, would risk irreversibly compromising the efforts made so far. I therefore prefer to say this here, in this House, in Parliament, in a strong and clear way, at the risk of appearing unpopular. The Government cannot and is not in a position to ensure the immediate return to the normality of the previous life [[Applause from Senator Bottici]] We would like to allow a full restoration of all ordinary life habits, but we must be aware that the virus is continuing to circulate in our community. Still today we have 105,000 infected, positive cases confirmed, without considering cases of asymptomatic infections that are not established and that according to reasonable statistical projections would be many more. I would like to remind you that this world emergency started with a person, a first case in China. One person has infected the whole world. So you can imagine what would happen if with 105,000 positive cases, plus all the others in larger numbers and not established, we did not use the utmost precaution. It would therefore be easy, from the point of view of consensus, to attempt the path of the total and immediate reopening of all productive and commercial activities, also removing all restrictions, which citizens clearly suffer, which we have applied to social relations and travel so far, allowing for an immediate return to school. On the other hand, this is a plan that pursues the general interest, even with unpopular measures, exclusively and devoutly. It is not an electoral programme intended to collect consensus. From the first day I said, together with all the Ministers, that we would always put the protection of the health and life of citizens first: fundamental rights enshrined in our Constitution. On the other hand, none of the countries most affected by the epidemic has thought of adopting a strategy for the simultaneous and immediate opening of all economic activities and the restoration of all social activities. The gradual reopening of production activities requires in the next few days careful monitoring of epidemiological developments based on three factors in particular: the first, the daily monitoring of the epidemic, with the increase of the availability of tests. The second, the verification of the degree of saturation of the hospital system, not only with reference to intensive therapies, but also to beds in general dedicated to the Covid-19. The third, the availability of personal protective equipment, gels and protective materials. The logic of experimentation is the one that we should adopt in the coming weeks, relying on the overall monitoring system of the spread of infections and on the technology of contact tracing, which includes - now is a well-known issue, as I have already reported - the Immuni app. I would add that last night the Government, at the outcome of the Council of Ministers, adopted a decree-law in which there are also rules aimed at providing primary regulatory coverage to procedures for tracing contacts with a function of monitoring proper to the virus. The body of provisions, on which Parliament will then be called to intervene in the conversion into law of the decree, aims to clarify and strengthen the discipline on this particular processing of personal data, in line with what the European Committee for the Protection of Personal Data has specified, also implementing the recommendations issued by the European Commission on 16 April 2020. In particular, it is expected that the data controller is the Ministry of Health, that the activity is limited to tracking carried out through the use of an application installed exclusively on a voluntary basis and intended for the registration of contacts only between subjects who have downloaded the application. There is also a timely regulation, as you will be able to verify, which can also be further integrated by the Ministry of Health, aimed at ensuring an adequate level of safety - well adapted, I add - to the risks to the rights and freedoms of those concerned. The platform that will manage this treatment will have to operate in our national territory - this is the bond that we have placed - and - further constraint - will have to be entrusted only to public administrations or companies with total public participation. The app will not collect any user geolocation data. The application can then be downloaded for free and will use codes that will not allow you to trace the user's identity. Moreover, in May - we are almost there - we will start to carry out 150,000 serological tests on a sample of citizens, whose selection is entrusted to Istat, and this will certainly allow us to have a clearer picture of the real impact of covid-19 in our country. All these and other initiatives will enable us to have a much wider information stock, so as to carry out and evaluate more effectively the spread of the epidemic. We will have to be prepared, if and where necessary, to intervene with timely measures in areas where there should be a particular increase in infection, aiming to block its advance in good time and possibly by adopting new restrictive measures, but well targeted and well circumscribed from a geographical point of view. In these hours the Minister of Health is issuing a provision, which is provided by the last paragraph of article 2 of the DCCM of 26 April, precisely in order to specify and define the criteria, the alert thresholds that will allow an accurate evaluation of the tendency to contagion in each area of the Country. This will be an important step, because, once we have acquired these instruments of evaluation, we can also agree with the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces a loosening of restrictive measures that is limited on a territorial basis, so as to take into account also the Regions where the epidemiological situation seems less critical. In this way, therefore, we will be able to make geographical differentiations even in the phase of loosening of the measures, with reopening of the activities based on a plan but characterized by precise scientific presuppositions, not already put back to improvised initiatives of individual local authorities. I would remind you that, at the current forecast, regional initiatives involving the introduction of measures less restrictive than those laid down on a national basis are not possible, because in contrast to the rules of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. With the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 26 April 2020 we have therefore taken this important decision: to reboot our productive and economic system safely. In the presence of an epidemiological picture still critical was not a timid choice, anything else: this choice alone will mobilize 4.5 million Italians, who will also return to travel by bus, metro, trains and cars to go to the workplace. It will be a test of fundamental importance to ascertain the solidity, the durability of our system. Certainly the decision taken in this area has forced us to be cautious in relation to community relations, with respect to which the openings have inevitably been more contained, albeit not negligible and in any case limited only to the next two weeks, at the end of which we will have clearer the health framework consequent to the reopening of the productive supply chains and therefore we will be able, without risk, in full awareness, to proceed to a more complete loosening of the contenitive measures. As for the mobility of people, from May 4 you can move within your region, as well as for reasons of work, health and necessity, also to visit your loved ones. You can do sports and motor activities, not only in the vicinity of your home, as long as you avoid assembly and always keep the safety distances. Individual sports athletes of national interest can go back to training behind closed doors. And, if in the next few days the contagion curve does not grow beyond the critical threshold Prudently identified, we will further loosen the measures, ensuring the reopening in safety of the retail trade, of the catering, of the services to the person, certainly in compliance with the rules of physical distancement with which - we must be aware - we will find ourselves living together for a certain period of time. We also look with apprehension at the world of entertainment, theatre, music and cinema. It was scheduled this morning, and I believe it has already ended, a meeting of Minister Franceschini with a large delegation from this world, with which we are willing to work because the revival of culture, entertainment and cinema is in our heart. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] I do not want to talk about all the sectors in distress, but I cannot fail to mention the tourism sector, which suffers - and we imagine will unfortunately suffer a little more - from all the restrictions connected with this pandemic. It is a sector that will hardly be able to recover any damage that has been produced and that will also have to be measured in the near future with a sharp drop in turnover, with so many economic constraints and with so much social suffering. We will absolutely have to intervene for them too. We know how much this crisis is affecting all these activities, all the workers and workers in these sectors. The Government is deeply aware of the need to allow the reopening of businesses to the public, services to the person, as soon as the evolution of epidemiological data allows. In this case too, we will work - indeed, we are already doing so - to establish accurate safety protocols, so as soon as possible to reopen these commercial and economic activities safely. Security will be the greatest guarantee for a more effective recovery of these economic activities. The reduction in the intensity of the health emergency - and here I move on to the more strictly economic issues - brings with it the intensification of the economic and also social emergency. The DEF 2020, approved by the Council of Ministers on 24 April, updates the country's macroeconomic framework in the light of the impact of Covid-19 on economic activity and measures the severity of the scenario before us. The official GDP forecast for 2020 is lowered by an increase of 0.6%, foreseen in the DEF Update Note last September, to a decrease of as much as 8%. It is a forecast that currently results in a fall in GDP of more than 15% in the first half of the year and takes into account a possibility of rebounding in the second half of the year, followed by an expected growth in GDP of 4.7% in 2021. The DEF also estimates a further risk scenario, which unfortunately cannot be excluded from the state, in which the trend and duration of the epidemic would be more persistent leading to a contraction of GDP up to 10.6 percent in 2020 and therefore a weaker recovery in 2021 of 2.3 percent, with - you can imagine - heavier increases in public finances. Faced with this difficult situation, the Government has launched a series of measures aimed at limiting the economic and social consequences of the closure of production activities. But it is not just a problem of closing down production activities: it is a problem of the collapse of domestic and even global demand. Again, we have also thought with these measures to enhance the capacity of our national health system and also to ensure additional and guaranteed liquidity flows for the productive world. These measures are included in the decree-laws you know well, care Italy and liquidity, on which I reported extensively in the information to the Chambers of 25-26 March last and 21 April. The extension of the closure of many productive activities and the need to preserve those sectors of the economy that will be most subject to operational constraints make it necessary to take further measures. These too will take the form of decree-laws to submit to your approval. The first decree-law will contain additional support measures for workers, workers and businesses, in order to continue to accompany them in this difficult phase of transition towards the reopening of economic activities. First, the decree-law will resume all the interventions of the so-called Italian care measure, strengthening them and extending them over time. For example, with a financial commitment of some EUR 25 billion, the existing measures to support employment, inclusion and income, such as cash benefits, self-employment benefits, two additional monthly unemployment benefits, compensation for colf and caregivers, will be extended. We are also studying the introduction of new forms of social protection. There is a phenomenon that we feared: new forms of poverty are emerging and social inequalities are growing. It will therefore be necessary to intervene with new forms of social protection and with the use of rapid and effective delivery mechanisms. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Senator De Petris Groups]] We cannot allow the health and economic emergency to aggravate the social emergency. The government does not intend to leave anyone behind and will work with every means available to achieve this goal. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] Health and safety measures and territorial authorities will also be confirmed. Ample scope will be given to interventions for the liquidity and capitalization of enterprises. With regard to tax measures, the suspensions, simplifications and facilitations already laid down will be proposed again, and certain obligations, such as those relating to excise duty, will be postponed for the installation of devices necessary for the telematic transmission of charges, in order to limit the impact on economic operators, in particular on the smallest. There will also be significant recognition and economic support for the provinces most severely affected by the pandemic. New specific causes of exclusion for the application of synthetic reliability indices will be identified, including changes to the current parameters, to take into account the extraordinary effects of this pandemic. In order to ensure companies and professionals the collection of claims against public administrations (this is a problem that in Italy is dragging year after year), we have planned to unlock 12 billion euros, through liquidity advances of the Cassa depositi e loani in favor of Regions, Provinces, Metropolitan Cities, Municipalities and bodies of the National Health Service. Among the interventions of support to the productive sectors most affected by the emergency is also the study of a scheme of financing lost funds for small enterprises, which we plan to link to the loss of turnover. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] For small and medium-sized enterprises above a certain threshold, interventions aimed at partially absorbing losses with public capital are also being studied, which can be transformed into non-refund support through the provision of liquidity or tax facilitation schemes. All in all, we will allocate some 15 billion to these interventions. For medium-large companies, a significant intervention by Cassa depositi e loani is being considered, including with a view to temporary entry into the capital against debt. We are also considering the strengthening of the tax credit for the rental of productive and commercial activities, to extend it also to the categories of public services not currently covered by the facility. We are also determined to support all those sectors qualifying for the competitiveness of the country that are unfortunately suffering to a greater extent from the global scope of the economy. I have already said that one particular aspect concerns tourism, which remains a particularly exposed sector. We will try to promote domestic tourism, through forms of support to tourism enterprises and in parallel with incentives to families below particular income thresholds and with dependent children, in the form of a bonus to be spent in the country's accommodation facilities. Moreover, the Government has decided to include within the decree-law the elimination of the increases in VAT and excise duties provided for in 2021 by the legislation in force. An increase in indirect taxation of this magnitude would in fact neutralize - we are all aware of this - the efforts we are making to rebuild the confidence of consumers, families and businesses and would therefore squeal with the stage of difficulty that the country is going through. In a phase characterized by a high degree of uncertainty, the intonation, the direction of fiscal policy must remain expansive, albeit within the limits of a properly prudent management of public finance. That is why, with the deviation authorised by Parliament, we will increase investment, and in order to facilitate their mobilisation we are working on a drastic simplification. Among the many categories of the Italian population who have had to change their lifestyle significantly because of the restrictive measures, there is one that deserves to receive all the necessary attention from politics - I would say maximum attention - even with specific measures. I'm talking about our kids and our kids. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] , as well as our girls and our boys who are living these weeks in the house: a condition that, if combined with the situation of economic difficulty in which, unfortunately, many families, risk to amplify even more the social inequalities. We cannot ignore, for example, that for many children the school meal was the most complete of the day. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]] Nor can we overlook the fact that the need for distance learning has shown a digital divide: there are families where the computer tools to participate in distance learning, unfortunately, are not there. As we know, this situation is particularly concentrated in some areas of the country. At the same time, if the home walls are for many of our children a place of love and comfort, we must also be aware that for others they can worsen situations already at risk, compared to which school attendance is a powerful garrison of inclusion. For this reason, the Government intends to dedicate to families and children the space and consideration they deserve within the next regulatory measures. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups.]] Taking care of them, making sure that no one stays behind, means taking care of the future of Italy. Finally, it will be crucial to prepare and support territorial projects to be activated in this new phase also in order to protect the right to play and motor activity of our little ones, without compromising the norms of physical and social distancing that will have to be maintained even after the reopening of the productive and commercial activities and the relaxation of the restrictions to the displacements. I agree in particular with the urgency of rethinking educational spaces in a dilated form, including through a new design of urban areas and the use, where possible, of spaces of proximity. It will be necessary to evaluate the possible reopening, in experimental mode, of nests and childhood schools, as well as summer centers and other recreational and educational activities for our children. Specific attention should also be paid to the issue of disability. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]] You must have noticed that in the last DCCM, after interloquizing with various associations, we have arranged for the reopening of day centres or so-called semi-residential centres. We have done so with specific caution: we call for agreements to be concluded at territorial level with all stakeholders in order to ensure full safety for people with disabilities, their family members and operators working closely with them. With the economic measures provided for in the new measure, it is also a question of paying particular attention to resources. We need to increase the National Fund for non-self-sufficiency, to increase assistance, services and independent life projects. We need to increase the Fund for the care of people with serious disabilities without family support, to strengthen the accompanying pathways for leaving the family of origin or for deinstitutionalisation. Finally, we need to set up a support fund for semi-residential structures for people with disabilities. The difficulty of the scenario that we face must not prevent us from seeing also the opportunities that our country can benefit, with all maturity, cohesion, creativity that we traditionally know how to express and that, even in this harsher phase, in this hard test, we are expressing. It is precisely to offer the country a broader, more structural, more ambitious perspective that the Government intends to prepare a second decree-law, immediately after, a measure for the economic and productive rebirth of Italy. The health crisis has hit the country. He put him on his knees, in a fragile position. Attention, however: we have an anchovied system, bureaucratized, which in itself could not run. Therefore, we are all the more obliged today to put in place a public response, which is able, not only to support demand in the recessive phase, but also, and above all, to renew the country's infrastructure, to increase its productivity, competitiveness, the ability to produce green innovation, digital innovation. In these weeks, the whole country has had to reorganize times and lifestyles with a speed that has no equal. I am thinking of the use of agile work in companies and in public administration. I think about the same distance teaching. At this stage we have experimented. All these activities have increased in an incredible way, sometimes even creating very critical moments for our digital connectivity infrastructure. These are all examples that show us the urgent need to reactivate the engine of public and private investment, with the opportunity of a public agenda that can set up a regulatory environment, but also an economic environment, which is more favourable to them, reducing the interpretative complexity of the current discipline and studying efficient dispute resolution mechanisms. Therefore, we intend to continue the work already undertaken during the definition phase of Agenda 2023 in order to achieve a drastic simplification of administrative procedures in areas crucial to the relaunch of investment. I am talking in particular, but not only, about procurement, construction, trade and civil legislation. The aim is to reduce the time taken to cross public works, in order to ensure that the public resources allocated become physical capital and infrastructure capital as soon as possible. It is a reform process that has a great deal of scope and will also require your cooperation. In the mores of its full implementation, it can be considered, for a specific sample of works, also the use of simplified authorization procedures. I want to say this very clearly: when we think of simplified authorisation procedures, we must not think of controls that are less rigorous and less accurate, but simply more efficient. A further direction of action, which will be essential to undertake already starting with the next measure, is also a strategy for selecting strategic investments and strengthening the country's design capacity. A major role, in this perspective, can be played by the coordinated action of large publicly controlled companies and the ability to put into place all the governance structures that are currently available at central level. Our country has all the cards in order to attract foreign and in particular European resources, available to finance projects in the fields of Green new deal, digital innovation, school building, basic applied research in the fields of mechanics, nutrition and pharmaceutical. We also plan to introduce, in these next measures, an overall increase in tax deductions for the benefit of the construction sector and sustainability. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Senator De Petris Groups]] It will be a very wide-ranging intervention, because we are developing the application of an articulated mechanism, which will offer all citizens to be able to carry out energy redevelopment and anti-seismic efficiency, coming to benefit - think! - discounts equal to the almost total - if not full - cost of the work carried out. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] It is an instrument that will be offered to everyone and therefore imagine what recovery will be offered, what prospect of valorization of the real estate and that support to the construction sector, which has been suffering for years, and what chance we have to generate new employment. The measures will be taken in the next few days. On the other hand, the scale of the interventions and the amount of resources also require a careful definition of the measures and, of course, your careful intervention in the conversion. We must proceed with expedition, also in order to realize - this is a last point on which I call your attention - the complete grounding of what we have already allocated with the previous decrees-laws. I always say that we cannot be content with introducing new regulatory instruments, but we must oversee and monitor their implementation. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] That is why I do not tire of repeating - I am convinced that I can also benefit from your precious help - to press everyone together - think - also on the banking world [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] , to ensure that the rules, which we have made available to them, are applied quickly and expeditiously, with state guarantees. Citizens deserve timely and effective responses. The last question is the one that involves the instrument used so far by the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. I am not unaware of the extent of the remarks that have been made, particularly with regard to the institutions, which we all know, of the reserve of law and the principle of legality, which our Constitution places as a bulwark of the fundamental rights of the person. However, I believe that these safeguards have not been neglected or weakened in their scope. First of all, with the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 31 January last, it was decided, for a period of six months - I should like to stress this, because sometimes we forget it, even in the public debate - the state of emergency of national importance, from which precise legal consequences descend, as provided for by the Civil Protection Code, which is a source of primary rank, of a general nature, whose legitimacy has already been filtered under the scrutiny of the Constitutional Court, which considered justified the adoption of exceptional measures, the use of serious emergencies, when the environment, the goods and, in this case, the very life of the population are in danger. To this first basis of legitimacy was added another, that of decrees-laws no. 6 and 19 of 2020. In particular, Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 has offered a broad and articulated legal cover, which I consider to be capable of overcoming any possible examination of constitutionality unscathed. The coverage offered by the declaration of the state of emergency, on the one hand, and the codification - in particular in Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 - of the measures that can be taken to deal with the epidemic comprehensively integrate the respect of the principle of legality, in the awareness that the primary source can regulate only up to a certain extent the responses that the order is called to offer to counter a situation of such an exceptional nature, which inevitably requires to preserve a certain degree of discretion to the administrative authority. The more true this is, if we pay attention to a truly authoritative doctrine in the event of a pandemic: what we are experiencing, in fact, is not a fact like a flood or an earthquake, which occur once and for all; it is instead a process that develops according to a continuous, unpredictable evolution, which necessarily imposes a greater tolerance about the degree of indeterminateness of the primary norms that legitimize secondary legislation. Mr Quegliariello (FIBP-UDC). That's not what the Constitution says! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. Constitutional law - and I remind myself - is a balance in the relationship between powers and the balance of rights and guarantees. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] When, as in this emergency season, the right to life and the right to the health of citizens are at stake, goods - attention - which, in addition to boasting a fundamental character, constitute themselves the presupposition for the enjoyment of every other right and obviously cross also those of others and the protection of the life of others, the choices, however tragic, as Guido Calabresi would say, become even obliged. I am well aware of the responsibility I have assumed every time I signed a single decree. I knew and knew that it was intended to have such an impact on the fundamental rights of citizens. Whenever I put this subscription, however, I felt the full awareness of acting in science and conscience [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator De Petris. Comments from the FdI Group]] for the defence of primary goods, of absolute value, with respect to which other rights, even fundamental, can only withdraw. As a jurist and as a person raised and educated according to democratic values, I sense how deeply unjust, if you will allow me, the accusation of having unreasonablely and arbitrarily compressed fundamental freedoms. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] For a certain time, I hope as soon as possible, on the basis of sound legal conditions, it has been decided to use the instrument which, because of its general nature and the degree of involvement of so many players, could guarantee the highest guarantee, combined with the elasticity necessary to adapt to a situation in rapid, continuous evolution. Some have expressed the view that Parliament would not have been adequately involved in the adoption of such sensitive measures. The proposal has also been made that Parliament should be able to intervene not only after the adoption of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, as already provided for, but also in advance, possibly by providing for an obligation to transmit draft decrees to the Chambers, so that the competent parliamentary committees, within a certain period, can give an opinion. [[Senator Quagliarello's comments.]] While I am aware of Parliament's prerogatives, I would remind you that the measures taken in recent weeks have been the result of decisions inspired not only by the principles of proportionality and maximum precaution; the current emergency has required that these two fundamental principles be accompanied by another, perhaps even more important or at least no less important, namely the timeliness, an essential condition for such incisive measures to be effective. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] And this is not only true of the first decrees adopted: think of the handful of hours that the government has had to set up the first red zone. Even the last decree-law, in fact, which was intended to produce effects from 4 May, could not but be adopted as a matter of urgency, so as to allow the undertakings concerned to initiate and complete in good time the procedures for sanitization and safety of workplaces, in accordance with the strict and rigorous protocols we have drawn up. In any case, the Government remains always willing to collect indications and contributions from Parliament and, if necessary, also to assess, in this new phase of loosening measures, how to interact more effectively with Parliament. I'll finish. [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] You will not have missed that some specialized companies, in recent days, have reported and recorded how the reputational value of Italy and Italians abroad has grown considerably. The image of Italy, of our country, has grown and is now perceived as better. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It's thanks to our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] We must thank them for the sacrifices they have made, for the virtuous behavior they have put in place, for the civic sense of responsibility they are demonstrating. If we managed to bend the contagion curve (there were moments when our veins were shaking, because we didn't think we could stop this contagion curve) well it's because of them. We are not given to know the R0, this mysterious factor, we do not know how it will stabilize in the coming weeks. Unfortunately we compulse science and experts but they don't tell us, it's not written anywhere, nobody can say it with confidence. It will depend on our ability, on the ability of our fellow citizens to continue to live, even in this new phase, with equal sense of responsibility and I am confident. [[There were prolonged applauses from the M5S, PD, Misto-LEU groups and from the government's benches. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u99	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u100	Mr President, I will take one minute longer than the time allocated to me. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I very much appreciated the speech that has just been made, particularly in the area of economic recovery and the measures that will be put in place. President Conte, we are all aware of the gravity of the moment and we renew all our support for it, but without forgetting our function of control which we have delegated to the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers as a matter of urgency with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for a time that we considered to be much shorter and of which we now have no longer a forecast. You said it well: constitutional rights must be contemporaneous and can only be compressed for a limited time and subjectivity in the list of priorities of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers - it has to be said - has led to underestimate other requirements than productive ones and profit, and you are aware of that. These are constitutional rights which, however, are the basis of well-being and therefore of general health and psychophysical balance, especially of children (the theme that I understood you have very well in your thoughts even if this was not the case in reality). The aim must be to control distance and safety and it cannot be the compression and repression of the specific action taken. Moreover, discretion placed in the hands of the Forces of Order has often led to occasional (but not justifiable) confusions, disproportionate and sometimes real abuses of power. The World Day of Health and Safety at Work, two days ago, was dedicated to the massacre of health workers due also to the many governments that have allowed non-essential work, often not in safety: we remember the more than 2,000 derogations granted only in Bergamasco to the codes Ateco in full phase 1. In the meantime, however, a demonstration is not considered necessary for its rights in safety, with the necessary compulsory distances, as is the case in Germany. The answer was police repression, as happened from Milan to Naples, and was the answer also in prisons, but net of the demonstration of Giorgia Meloni. Police state control is never acceptable, much less in a situation of such severe deprivation and collective stress. In all this he has succumbed to the pressures of Confindustria and has held back and oppressed himself, and it was not necessary to do so, not because the economy is not important, but precisely because it is. The country - we are aware of this - is exposing itself very much with these measures and with the future ones and it is clear to all the risk of default and downgrading the rating on GDP and debt, but precisely for this reason we must avoid the worst. The production activities in the North have never really closed; the reason why we are still this point is due precisely to initiatives such as "Bergamo is running" and "Milan" does not stop and to the thousands of derogations. In Europe, where it opened too early, it is already closing. We also forgot the experience of the Spanish flu virus, when the countries that wanted to open first paid for a worse economic crisis; instead, it was rewarded who kept the closure longer. Therefore, reopening with caution is not only right, but it is necessary. We're betting on a shot, ready to go back to the start and start over, in a hurry that others give us. Not treating all regions in the same way is right; it would be counterproductive, unclear and contradictory. I would like to make two comments on the recovery. The liberal concept of the cascade business economy of the last century and the famous industrial triangle did not work in the past and will not work in the future. We have not appreciated the document of the Department for the programming and coordination of economic policy (Dipe) 2020 where it is assumed, in addition to a different destination of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the suspension of the rule of 34% of investments from ordinary resources to the South: it must not happen, it would be yet another robbery. In addition, you have said a lot of good things for the recovery, but we have also read the so-called shipyard 2 decree, which contains dangerous derogations from environmental protection opinions, and this is not consistent, Mr President-in-Office, with the necessary revision of the model of development that this very health catastrophe imposes on us more forcefully than before. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u101	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u102	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council, Count, for his information, which once again allows us to understand the context in which the choices mature, to understand elements so different as to balance but which are necessarily to be traced back to synthetic choices for the best re-start of the country, measuring the risk to reasonably avoid a recovery of the contagion. However, I would like to take up the basic figure. We're in front of an unknown virus, so we don't know what it's gonna do, but one thing we know is it's transmitted through people, and that means fewer people are circulating less viruses. It is a virus that has so far been very efficient in transmission. We have seen it, unfortunately, in our most affected territories that still count the deceased people and also in hospitals where many operators have contracted the virus and in too many have also lost their lives. But the choices made so far, which had the objective of isolating the virus and preventing its uncontrolled propagation, are giving encouraging results. We are reaping the fruits of the sacrifices that we have imposed on ourselves and also from the health point of view the Covid-19, for some scientists, seems less capable of transmitting. Not that the confinement to which we are subjected also these days sees the total paralysis of the Country and the list of identification codes of the activities contained in the DCCM of 10 April demonstrates this. I want to say that the improvement of the situation that we are experiencing has been achieved by maintaining a number of activities that are significant and indispensable for the daily life of the country, and therefore also of the citizens, for which protocols have been implemented that have guaranteed the performance of the tasks in substantial safety for operators and users. This is the time to face a phase of coexistence with the coronavirus that gradually puts into operation all those activities that can be carried out in safety conditions for operators and users, because between the phrase pronounced by many according to which nothing will be as before and the strong pressure that we are all under to resume to do exactly what we did before, there is precisely this work, this commitment to build the protocols of coexistence with the risk of contagion that is what allows the resumption of the various productive activities and functions. Graduality, however, does not mean totality and if graduality passes through the choice of balancing the recovery of activities with the maintenance of social distance, the reduction of community relations and the attention to the most fragile and the elderly it must involve Parliament. As a health committee, we have asked for an assigned deal to be dealt with at least three main issues at this stage in the short term. The first strand is the actions that must be put in place to continue to face the emergency, knowing that, as always, the resources must be used also with planning and respect to the prospects of reorganization of the health service that it is right to plan so that other similar events, in the future, find us ready to manage them properly. First of all, therefore, it is necessary to build a health model on the territory in order to ensure proximity and homeliness. We expect in the Decree-Law April a full investment on territorial assistance because this is the model that responded best. Of course, bringing together regional models that are different will not be short-term action but must start immediately. Secondly, it is necessary to strengthen the Covid hospital. The immunity of the flock is still far from being achieved, therefore, until there is a vaccine, it is necessary to strengthen the Covid hospital. The second strand concerns the resumption of health care activities for non-Covid pathologies, that is those activities that have been interrupted and in some way abandoned for the emergency coronavirus and for which it cannot be made to wait any longer for citizens who have been suspended scheduled interventions. Finally, the third strand relates to actions to accompany the implementation of the protocols for the opening of activities. I quote one for all: the test strategy to be implemented... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] The current potential for testing should be targeted in the right directions, also in support of the openings of activities under safe conditions. That, Mr President, is our full support for the government's action in its collegiality and is facing the health and economic emergency with great responsibility, without wavering and with courage, and the newly voted DEF bears witness to that. It is a support that is and wants to be active and active because there is a phase 2 health care, there is a phase 2 economic but there is also a phase 2 in political and parliamentary management that I think can give, at least as far as the PD Group is concerned, a further positive impulse to the action of its Government for the good of the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u103	Senator Unterberger is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u104	Mr President, Mr Conte, a few days ago I heard you say 'we are all the Lombards', an expression that evokes 'Ich bin ein Berliner' by Kennedy, in order to express closeness to the people of Lombardy; a solidarity to which, of course, we all associate. The problem, however, is that you don't just use it as a metaphor, but you act as if everyone is really in the dramatic condition of the Lombards. I have to tell you that's not true. We're not all Lombards. Fortunately, not all regions have had 75,000 patients, 13,000 deaths and 800 daily cases of new infected people. South Tyrol, which is obviously much smaller than Lombardy, has had 2,500 cases, cries 274 deaths and for several days has less than 10 new cases a day; this, despite the very high frequency of swabs that are made. Therefore, it is clear that two territories that are in such a different situation cannot be treated in the same way: those who treat in the same way completely different situations create inequalities. I'm sorry to say this, but that's exactly what you're doing. And even if today you have proposed to differentiate from 18 May, the approach remains paternalistic and distrustful towards local authorities, as if the government were the only serious and responsible institution. President Conte, last week I told you that I greatly appreciated the way you are moving in Europe and I find that the Government has dealt with stage 1 of this emergency in a respectable manner. The decision to close for almost two months surely contained the pandemic and avoided many territories to live the drama of Lombardy. Stage 2, however, started really badly. Especially the citizens of the less affected territories expected a gradual return to normality, with open shops and later also bars and restaurants. They expected an indication for the care of their children while working and a long-term perspective for tourism as well. You have no idea how the South Tyroleans reacted, which in principle have a positive view of your work, to your words. I wonder if you really have assumed this way of thinking and this centralist idea of the institutions and the State that you do not realize that your indications can be good for Lombardy and for the other regions that are still in the middle of the emergency but not for the rest of the country. There is really so far away the concept of differentiation that you do not understand what should be the basis of phase 2, namely that Lombardy and the other regions in difficulty have no advantage if, out of solidarity, all Italy is blocked. On the contrary, it would be better to have the other regions work to restart the economy and to give the possibility also to these territories to benefit - hopefully as soon as possible - from a car that has been restarted. Nobody's talking about opening everything up like you made people think today. We all know that this cannot work, and so does the most sudden governor. You listed four categories of dangerous situations for contagion. Well, we hold on to three of these and gradually open up the second and that is the world of work. No one thinks of opening schools now and admitting social gatherings. It has often been said in these days that we must learn to live with the virus. Unfortunately, this also means accepting a number of infected people. It is necessary to fix the bar of reopenings according to the ability of hospital facilities and intensive care facilities to adequately treat the cases that will be there until we discover the vaccine. We cannot close everything until the virus disappears, because at a certain point suicides and forms of psychological failure will be higher than the dead for the virus. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Candiani and De Bertoldi]] We must also open up as much as possible in order to avoid another disease, that of poverty and the increase in social inequality, and the key word must be the differentiation between the individual regions, as you seem to want to do from 18 May, with two weeks of delay. When I hear you say that you can't create A-series and B-series regions, that you have to keep the Regions from going in order, my arms fall. No country in Europe is proceeding like Italy: despite the fact that everyone has closed most of the productive activities, nobody has come to do it like us and they have all started to reopen again. Federal countries, such as Austria and Germany, obviously differentiated from Region to Region, but also countries with a central state, such as Spain, and, not by chance, federal states that give an important role to the Regions, offer the best results. The truth is this and not the fake news about the increase in cases in Germany where the famous factor R has gone from 0.9 to 0.96; as was explained by the Robert Koch Institute, this difference does not mean that the contagions are broken down, because 0.9 is not a certain figure, but only a statistical interval for which, in all probability, the level of contagion is between 0.7 and 1%. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and IV-PSI and Senator Quagliariello]] In addition, Mr President, in Germany a possible increase in infection has been from the beginning part of the calculations that were made. Not surprisingly, they called it the stop and go strategy; open and, if the numbers get worse, close some sectors immediately. Since you are an admirer of Kennedy, President Conte, I remind you of another peak of the American president: "Every accomplition starts with a decision to try," each result begins with the decision to try. Does that ring a bell? I hope to do nothing wrong in revealing that this saying is the one that accompanies your account on WhatsApp. I find it a nice leitmotiv, but you should also behave about it. A less fear-driven approach must be taken and with greater confidence in local authorities and citizens. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and Senator Quagliariello]] I do not understand why you want to take all the responsibility on your shoulders: give something to the presidents of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces; however, you still have enough problems to deal with. You have created several task forces with experts from every field; I wonder why you do not listen to them more. Dr. Colao spoke yesterday of micro-geographical differentiations and of not penalising the areas that have the least cases. Then why don't you do it right away? Why do you only want to differentiate in two weeks? Maybe it would take more women on your teams. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , like the governor of Calabria, who is far from me light years from the political point of view, but who has the courage to pass from words to deeds [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , method that will be forced to adopt also other presidents of the Region (like ours, who never wanted to get to this point, always looking for the collaboration and being unfortunately unheard). Your approach, already problematic for regions with ordinary status, becomes unacceptable towards a Province with special status. We are a linguistic minority protected through international agreements, with a constitutional status, whose prerogatives cannot be sterilized with continuous recourse to the DCCM even in stage two of the emergency. In general, there are constitutional objections, which must be raised even more with regard to a Province with a special status. As President Cartabia says, limitations must be proportionate and time-consuming. We accepted the concentration of power in the government's hands for phase 1, because there was an emergency that required maximum speed of intervention. We don't accept phase two. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and FIBP-UDC]] because this is a phase of economic recovery, in which governors and rulers who know the territory best must have a strong voice in the matter. Our population is confronted with the situation of neighbouring countries and sees that, despite the virus, with a courageous policy and with confidence in citizens so much is possible. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, you know that I have the highest regard for you, and I am not criticizing you, but advice, as my colleagues in the Democratic Party say. However, you really must understand that this way of proceeding really affects the very essence of the political activity of us self-employed. That is why I hope that, after all the protests, things will change. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), IV-PSI, Mixed and Senator Quagliariello]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u105	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u106	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the Senators Quaestors, who are engaged in difficult work at these sessions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the long speech by the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers calls for clear answers from everyone, in the name of truth and freedom. For two months 60 million Italians have been understandably in a regime that recalls the state of house arrest for a health need: politics has the task of saying words of clarity and strength. We will not get out of this dynamic with populist paternalism or with a vision without politics. I shall then take up a few points in your speech, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. The first is economic analysis; the second is the reference to the Constitution. I will then appeal to you on the part of the majority, one last appeal from my political strength. What you said about economic analysis is largely acceptable. In his speech I found no words that should not be signed. The starting point, however, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for us is what my colleague, Senator Unterberger, chairman of the Group for the Autonomies, expressed perfectly a few moments ago: no one asked you to reopen everything; someone who said today that everything should be reopened should be hospitalized first. We said something quite different. Why is the Italian lockdown different from the French, Spanish or German lockdown (and not from the South Korean or Chinese lockdown)? We ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, why do we not take responsibility for a gradual, safe reopening that is not undervalued by the virus? Coronavirus is a terrible beast that has killed 30,000 in the most cowardly way, because it has prevented our elders from shaking hands at the last moment to their children, to their family members. Coronavirus is a cowardly enemy. We, however, are not on the side of the coronavirus when we say to reopen. We think we honor those people of Bergamo and Brescia who are no longer there and who, if he could speak, would tell us: For us also depart, having made life, at all times, an occasion of sacrifice and labor. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let us be clear. There are things that have not worked; you have not mentioned them, and I believe that you have done well not to open the debate here and I give you notice: the RSA, the theme of the red zones, the lack of masks, the delay in the swabs. We will have to talk about all this, but these are the causes of the spread of the virus, not a runner too much that is being chased with the Guardia di Finanza helicopter. Faced with what has happened in Italy, as in the world (because it is a pandemic), there is a global emergency that will change everything, it will change the history of our country and our planet, as is already changing the history of Europe, objectively. In the face of this incredible emergency, we cannot delegate everything to the scientific community. Let us not forget that I am not happy to see this great passion for the scientific community that is taking up the whole of Parliament and also parliamentary forces that in recent years attacked the virologies or even proclaimed themselves No vax. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, FdI, and Senator Rizzotti.]] I'm excited when I see that now they're all new lab experts and that they're all for research: well. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this country - not because of you - has had moments in the last thirty years when it has stopped and politics has abdicated its responsibilities. It did so in the years 1992-1993, when politics abdicated in front of the judiciary; it did so in the early years of the last decade, when politics abdicated in front of the technicians of the economy. Today we cannot think of asking a virologist, not how to fight the virus, but how to combat unemployment or the slaughter of jobs or how to decide the quality of life between us. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and FdI.]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the fundamental point - which you did not say, but I am sure you care about it - is then that it is up to policy to tackle the new division. How many times, ladies and gentlemen, have we said that there is a division between North and South in Italy? There is. Between elite and people? There is. Between rich and poor? There is. There is a deeper division at this time: the one between guaranteed and unconquered. Attention, because we are all afraid of the virus; all those who follow us at home are afraid for their families: they are good. However, the difference is that those who have a job or a salary or the certainty - as we all have in this House - of arriving at the end of the month and being in place, are experiencing this stage of difficulty with personal concern, but also with the certainty of being able to deal with it: sooner or later we will get out of it. Then there is a slice of people, i.e. the self-employed, VAT matches, bartenders, restaurateurs, traders [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and FIBP-UDC]] , who are crying at night, not only being afraid during the day. Faced with this new separation and division, I have the impression that we are not setting up all the instruments. If we wait for the acts of love of the banks, we all bleed to death for lack of liquidity. We have an objective problem, which is this growing separation between the guaranteed and the unsecured. If he closes a store, it doesn't just result that a family fails - and it's a huge problem - but it's also - let me tell you by a former mayor - that way that becomes less strong. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] If you close a store, it's not just Amazon that takes more seats; if you close a store, that street is less secure for when my daughter goes out in the evening, because there is no longer the civil and social dimension. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we call on you to have a broader look at the economic future. We tell you that by sharing what you have said in the part where you have spoken about economic measures and by giving the assurance that we will be at your side and voting in favour of the decree-law prepared by Minister Gualtieri. But be careful, there's a world outside that changes. Other countries are moving forward on artificial intelligence, robotics, sustainability, how to invest in personalized medicine, while we still have Title V on health. Faced with this, now is the time to act. Preventing, not chasing: this is the difference between politics and surveys. I come to the two final points. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the first is on the Constitution. I do not want to, because I am expressing a different opinion from yours, not contesting the legitimacy of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers which, as you mentioned, has its basis in a decree-law regularly voted, as was also said in the morning when we discussed, at a time of civil confrontation, between majority and opposition. That is a fact. The point is that at times of emergency such as this - as the President of the Constitutional Court, Professor Marta Cartabia, has said very clearly - and in these situations of emergency the Constitution is the compass. We have never had such a broad picture of derogation from constitutional principles and freedoms, as at this time; not even during terrorism. Faced with this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not an act of blasphemy to make a different use of the decree of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers. Tell your communication staff [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] , who from the next day continue to paint me as one who tries to make a political controversy of partisan. I am trying to help myself, you and all of us to remember that it cannot be a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers to decide whether friendship is true or not, Undersecretary Sileri. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] It cannot be a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers to say whether the engagement relationship is occasional or stable. In fact, if we go into this detail, we are entering a field that brings us closer to the ethical state, not to the constitutional state. And you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who use words very carefully, be more careful, please, when you speak to the Italians. You said eleven times 'we agree' (I listened carefully); in the field of constitutional freedoms the President of the Council, as well as any Member of Parliament, does not allow it, because constitutional freedoms come before you. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI]] Constitutional freedom allows you to be where you are. On the other hand, it is that vision of the Ottroyée (granted) Constitution, typical of the 1800s, which is recalled by one who says "allowing others freedom". You do not allow freedom, you recognize freedom. And since I know that you are certain and because you have made a Greek quote, let me say with Seneca - in the Senate Chamber resonate the word of Seneca - do not licet tibi quicquam will your face. Not licet tibi, but not just to President Conte, to any President. I say this here because in this House I claim to have helped create another government when a senator, Senator Salvini, asked for full powers. We have not denied them to him to give them to others: it is a constitutional fact that we must all defend together. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] I'm closing on the third and final point. The President of the Council of Ministers said that this government does not work with the benefit of darkness. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And the fact that the League has doubts about what I am saying seems to me an element that strengthens my reasoning; I can assure you, Senator Centinario, that your considerations exalt me, do not worry me. The fundamental point is another. The President of the Council says: "We speak clearly." I look into your eyes, Mr Conte, because we respond with the same clarity. We are not behind the games that sometimes the sails of Palazzo Chigi feed. I did that job and I know how to feed the veils. We tell him to his face. Mr President, we are at a crossroads: you were good at reassuring the Italians, you were very good at giving calm and reassuring words over the last two months. It wasn't easy. We should all recognize it. The point, however, is that in stage two of politics it is not enough to play on fear or feelings of concern. There is a reconstruction to be done that is devastating and that will require a lot of politics, vision, courageous choices and that cannot be firm in the way in which we started, as Senator Unterberger told you. Mr President, we are at a crossroads: we can either pursue the direct Facebook, which makes followers grow, or we can try to follow those statistics according to which the unemployed grow. I would like you to take an extra look at the data from Istat and one less look at the polls and have the courage to say that, in the face of the occupational emergency and the carnage that presents us with the situation we are experiencing, we all need an effort. It is up to you to decide: if you want us to be at your side, we will be there, provided you do the things that the Italians need. If instead we are to be on a populist ridge, telling people what people like to hear, we will not be at your side. There was a great senator, his name was Mino Martinazzoli, who, at a delicate moment in the life of this country, said to those who challenged him: do as you wish, but politics is elsewhere, we will wait for you there. If you choose the path of populism, you will not have Italy Viva at your side. If you choose the path of politics, we'll wait for you there. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u107	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u108	Mr President, I leave the hugs and applause for Mr Matteo Renzi to be exhausted and the outcome of his speech - I expect President Conte to stop speaking, as is used in courtrooms, since he is the people's lawyer - I wanted to notify you, Mr Conte, that you no longer have a majority. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] If I understood Renzi's surgery, she was already in condition. But Renzi told her: I created you and I can destroy you. Exactly this is the meaning of Matteo Renzi's intervention. That's the truth. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] And I have to say that some of the things he said I share. I even applauded him in a couple of steps, because it seemed like a responsible intervention of the opposition. President Conte, in his speech, both here and in the House - therefore, it was not an inscription, it was prepared - used an identical sentence: he said that his... is not an electoral programme intended to collect consensus. Excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta: it means that you know very well that everything you have said may be understood as a clumsy attempt - but still an attempt - to have a consensus that the voters have never given you, to increase your personal liking. For God's sake, I don't mean that you didn't think about fighting the virus - I would miss it - but I mean that the predominant thought was not just to fight the virus, but how to fight it by increasing your personal liking, your consent, how to make you forget that nobody gave you that role with a popular consensus. President Conte, for three months we have been trying to be responsible, to put close to zero the right of the opposition to oppose the Government and to cancel - or almost - the duty of the opposition to ensure that the acts of those who govern, of those who command, are not arbitrary, do not circumvent the laws, the same constitutional norms. We have given you all possible attenuators dictated by the exceptional nature of this emergency that we have recognized. We wanted not to dramatize for long weeks the mistakes, the serious delays, the non-compliances, the unjustified discretions: I think of the mobsters who left and the citizens closed in the house [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I think of the demonstrations for April 25 yes and the two boys fined because yesterday, April 29, they brought a flower to the memory of Sergio Ramelli. That's what I'm thinking. Just as I think Nigerian drug dealers are allowed to stay in parks; a child walks, instead, absolutely not. There's a limit to everything. It is three months from the state of emergency, two months from the first decree; 10 of its confused press conference, often useless, made before the measures have passed. There have been 218 acts and - heard, heard - the appointment of 450 experts of his appointment - and I am not talking about the nominations ENI and others on which it is better to spread a pitiful veil - besides those that please us on television, so someone says that they have become more experts of the infected in Italy, probably. We have never had, in view of our availability, a single act of sharing. Do you know how many favourable opinions have been given today to the amendments proposed by the whole opposition? Do you know, President Conte? He was in the House. I'll tell him, zero. Not even one amendment has received the favourable opinion of this Government, which calls for cooperation. We have a strong conviction that you, through a solitary and uncontroversial media exposure, are trying to increase your consent, not just to fight the virus. He wanted to focus on himself powers that do not have Trump, Putin, or Orbán either: you have martyred him, yet at least he has obtained full powers from Parliament, as Salvini never demanded, for a sentence said in a meeting, which was compared earlier to administrative acts. These are powers - those of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers which you have defended here - which, as Baldassarre and the current President of the Constitutional Court have kindly reminded you, do not exist. Your decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers may also be challenged before the TAR, other than restricting the constitutional rights of Italians, as you have done. To which we bowed in the days of the first emergency: but not after three months! You say you did it because in the first decree it was written: other eventual acts, or such a phrase. It limits the Constitution with a ritual sentence! In fact, with the last decree, you would like, in advance, blindly, to allow us to give fines to citizens for behavior that is not yet defined. You will then decide what these behaviors are. It's over! Parliament wants to be central again in the choice of measures that serve the country, citizens, businesses and families! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It was at least useful, but so far what we have done has been very bad. Most of what we did already said my grandmother. My grandmother told me that I had to wash my hands, always; that it wasn't polite to be close to people when they talk; and she also reminded me that it's good education not to have the claim to know everything. Well, I'm going to my grandmother's instead of her 450 experts! [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] However, I do not want to say that this is just our opinion, so look: here are all the newspapers. Here they are: "Il Giornale", "Free", "The Truth". All newspapers I could quote, but I don't quote them. I quote, however, what the Corriere della Sera wrote yesterday, which certainly is not attributable to Brothers of Italy. From the first page, signed by Gramellini, I extrapolate a sentence, which is not, however, a phrase contradicted by the rest. Speaking of his experts and of her, Gramellini refers to the mysterious technical-scientific committee that, in the prose inspired by Count, embodies the totem of the discharge barrel, to be mentioned if necessary to give a license of authority to the incomprehensible ": "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), not "Ignazio La Russa." In the same way, I can tell you that we are not just protesting; we are proposed. The data you have not given us, the confused data, which also emerges from the statistics, we have studied them thoroughly. We have seen, for example, that the rate of lethality, that is the relationship between the infected and the dead, is equal to zero (six zero) up to forty years, net of those who have serious and previous criticalities: zero. The rate remains high above the age of seventy. And it is not possible to divide it by Region or, worse, as you have done so far, making Italy uniform, when, in Regions like Sicily (I don't speak of the usual Basilicata), the relationship between inhabitants and infected people is very low. We need to take action, highlighting any red areas, area by area. Even more, however, we ask you for carpet tests to really monitor who has the right to go out, work, operate and who, instead, has to be quarantined. We are asking you, above all, not to discriminate between categories and sectors. Openness must not respond to one's belonging to one sector, rather than another, but to the observance of a protocol that you, the Government, its thousand experts have a duty to draw up equal for all. Those who respect that protocol can work, whatever their category, whatever their type of work. I should continue with our other protests, such as the sanitization of all public places. He knows them, we subjected them to them, but they remain unheard of. As I understand that I do not have much time, Mr President, to conclude, I do not want to do so with the words of the opposition. I do not want to conclude as who, as Giorgia Meloni did in the House, pointed out to her, point by point, the things we expect her to do and not the indication of the scapegoats, as she shamefully did in a press conference without contradictory. We tell you things here, in front of you, not in favor of a room! [[Applause from the FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] I could now conclude by quoting "the Republic" because this daily day also accuses us of making unconstitutional measures, but I conclude by quoting again the "Corriere della sera" and talking about economics. Also on the front page it is written that "The economy was waiting for clear answers (...)" but "there are no grants for those who have touched it." Then the article ends by saying that the President-in-Office of the Council has expressly asked banks for an act of love - an act of love to banks! - preferring, as a State, to practice abstinence. Thus, concludes the "Corriere della sera" (Corriere of the evening), "at least the rich will be richer and the poor poorer, and this should solve once and for all the problem of social distancing" (Corriere della sera). Congratulations, Mr President-in-Office. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u109	He's enlisted to speak Senator Laforgia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u110	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Italians live the date of 4 May as a kind of second baptism, as a rebirth. This is the expectation that has been created and is a tangle of sensations, emotions, rational and non-rational elements. Perhaps the most complicated part of his work is to measure up to this dimension and to live up to this expectation. Let me say it like this: not all of us are. We can in fact measure the distance between the words of the leader of the opposition of the Portuguese right, just to say one, who addresses Prime Minister Costa and says: President, we do not offer you opposition, but cooperation and wish you luck, because your luck is also our luck. The distance between those words and the folklore of a piece of opposition, which occupies the benches of Parliament [[Applause from the Mixed LEU, PD and M5S Groups]] At a time when Italians don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, it's mortifying. I say this not because the opposition must be censored with respect to its positions, anything else. We do not, however, get out of this unless we are informed by this element of institutional unity. If anything, we engage a challenge between political parties on the idea of reconstruction. Mr President, that is one of the most abused words. Reconstruction does not have a neutral meaning, but it will depend on our choices and, if this majority has a political sense, it has it in relation to the idea of explaining to the Italians the truth, albeit trivial in its truthfulness, and that is that not everyone will pay for the crisis in the same way. Already today there are forces that are moving in the country, that want us to jump back, perhaps imagining the way out of this crisis with a barter between growth and rights, asking workers for a further reduction of their protections, or by making steps back on those timid achievements that we have made, compared to the environmental measures that we have asked a piece of the production system. Or, as someone who is present in this House says, the recipe is total deregulation, which, Mr President, means going back to the season of cunning, condoning, direct entrusting and procurement to the usual known. No! We must be the embankment of all this and, from my point of view, we must do so from three priorities. The first is the income and dignity of people. Mr President, there is one subject that has gone through Parliament's debate in the past. There was someone who said that it is not necessary to imagine instruments of universal income - which, in my opinion, is exactly what we have to do - because, according to the "divanist" thesis, imposing such measures discourages people in search of a job and encourages them to sit on their sofas. You know what? That job, in these forty or fifty days, for many people has been destroyed and it will take time to rebuild it. And the sofa's thesis is stupid, in relation to the fact that no one in this country wants to spend time on the couch waiting for a public subsidy. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris.]] Of course, millions of women and men want to bet on their talents, but they are sick of having to do it every day as balancers, thinking that if you create - and create - a vacuum like what you have determined, there is no rag of protection to support them; This is the great revolution that I think we must make, even leaving a mark in the current legislature: an income of universal dignity. Secondly, you cannot say that, Mr President, because you need the loyal cooperation of the different institutional levels, but let me say it to us, to me, who live in Milan, in Lombardy: the management of the health crisis by some regions has been disastrous. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator De Petris.]] There is not only an issue of ignorance of the political classes, but there is an institutional one: there is an institutional babel, for which there are Presidents of the Region who call themselves governors; governors who chase the Government with orders that overlap with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers or who even want to close the borders, not remembering that the unity of Italy we have conquered a few years ago. All this no longer holds, as well as a national health system broken into 20 or 21 subsystems. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu and M5S Groups.]] And then, Mr President, among the things that we must bring to the new world is perhaps the idea of radically revising the project of differentiated autonomy which has to do not so much with autonomy, which is an important principle, but with that regional centralism that we no longer need and which has increased and is likely to increase the gap between North and South again. Finally, on the role of Parliament, I address you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: avoid this paradox and this kind of curious nemesis, so it is those who have tried to amend the Constitution in recent years, perhaps deleting whole pieces with a stroke of pen or, in more recent times, recalling full powers, the same to address the accusation of... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] ; that would be a serious paradox. [[Applause from the Mixed-Leu and M5S Groups.]] It is precisely in order to avoid this paradox that it must put the system in a position to return quickly to its constitutional normality, because a marginalized Parliament is not only the one that fails to fulfil its function, which is, first of all, to preserve and make people's sovereignty live, but it is also the one that is not allowed to help the Government to fill some gaps, starting from a big issue, which has been mentioned, about what families will do starting from 4 May, with a detailed plan, in relation to the management of their children and the whole subject of the school. We have the opportunity to help the government in this passage and I think we have to go in that direction: we have to do it, and I really close, because we can open a new phase for this country. And perhaps, speaking of children, we should do so by reminding ourselves of the title of a film by the great director Vittorio De Sica, "Children look at us": all the choices we make maybe we have to make them thinking about the only owners of that category we often abuse, which is the future. Thank you, Mr President, and I wish you every success. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u111	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, today we are in Parliament, at the main place of the political debate and not in the bivouac of some desperate people, a proper and necessary debate on this stage 2 of the Covid-19 epidemic, which we thank you for. But I want to start with a premise: these weeks of lockdown have certainly allowed us to block the exponential curve of the contagion, but also to recover a mountain of data and numbers, an avalanche of evidence useful to build a strategy for restarting. A necessary restart, bearing in mind that we are not yet out of the epidemic, nor will we - of this we are all now aware - until there is a certain vaccine or treatment. This is perhaps a obvious premise, but I think it is necessary to settle our debate to reality, just as it would impose a climate of national unity, rather than the propaganda of someone. This is a useful premise in interpreting the choices made in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that you have explained to us here today, but even more so and above all - I say - to guide us on what we will have to do from here on. In this moment of very serious crisis, I believe in fact responsible, indeed it is necessary to avoid falling into the trap of the irreducible factions, which today sees one against the other armed, the open-tourists tout court against their opposites. I am saying this because I am convinced that the real challenge before us is that we should respond to the recommendations made by the Scientific Committee, but also that we should give them a necessary political ratio from now on, because we cannot imagine governing this stage of crisis that knows no equals with measures that do not go beyond the waterline of the technical recommendation. The biggest challenge today, in fact, is not the containment of the virus, or it is not just that, but it is taking that right step further in choosing that action that enriches the indispensable scientific warning of a political strategy. You see, Mr President, there is no greater imprudence than a destructive prudence. For this reason, a phase 2 monocords may not be adequate compared to a situation that, in its complexity, has peculiarities that should be ride instead to hook up the only advantage that we must not risk losing: time. There is evidence now confirmed for weeks of a strong unevenness of the contagion between the 20 Regions of our country. We hope - and I really say this - that in the shortest time possible, as we are also encouraged by the data today, all of Italy will be able to find equal safety indices in order to restart, but if the next few days were to continue to confirm significantly different evidences, perhaps there would be no longer insuperable reasons for not providing differentiated release measures on the basis of the situation that is actually different, but also because of the permanent monitoring that we are conducting. I also support this position because it would allow us to avoid some solitary and messy getaway of individual regions, as is already happening in these hours. In this sense, we feel a strong duty to renew the feeling of true solidarity to Regions such as Lombardy, Piedmont, Emilia, Veneto for what they have suffered, as the spirit of national unity asks us, which alas continues not to manifest itself in all, or rather in some. From Senator Puglia, however, I almost get to convince myself that under inverse conditions irresponsibly someone would not have the same sensitivity and would not have hesitated to scream immediately and claim differentiated procedures. But we're different. [[Applause from the PD Group]] and this being different and responsible makes us today - today yes - to point out that the marked presence of entire Regions from several days to zero or that they do not suffer increase of the contagions, while on the social and economic front every day of blocking of the activities eats GDP, liquidity and jobs, if confirmed it imposes a greater effort of deepening and courage in the political choice of the measures. Let me be clear, I do not want to trade health for work, we have discussed this repeatedly in this House also with my region and then that warning against the destruction of prudence, Mr President, is a warning to go further, towards a political choice that matures on scientific advice, but overcomes them with the necessary courage to get political navigation back in our country. For this reason it must no longer be considered a taboo to think of a differentiated loosening, with the maximum possible health guarantees; of course, with all the necessary health protocols that politics must impose forcefully, sanctioning those who do not respect them. As far as I am concerned, I should like to conclude, Mr President, by allowing me to make a further remark. Timing was the fundamental variable in dealing with this crisis; the answers that the Government has been able to offer so far were, in my opinion, as timely as possible. What I know, however, and on which I get stress every day is an uncooperative attitude on the part of the banking system. Compared to this, I did not find it entirely acceptable to invite the banks to make a gesture of love. No, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we do not ask the banks to convert into beneficial bodies; there is a commitment, reiterated in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system, to cooperation during this period of crisis. There is no room for an arbitrary and subjective will of feeling when we have the power of law. It is intolerable to see the demand for credit turn into yet another obstacle course. As long as the principle that pacta sunt servanda is valid, there is no place - and I have finished - in which bank loans should be regarded as obtained. Everyone must do their part responsibly. We ask the Government to continue with an extra march; we ask the banking system, which cannot imagine exploiting the Covid-19 as an opportunity to retrain its portfolio; we ask the oppositions, because there is at stake the future of Italy, not the figure of daily surveys, and the future of Italy engages it with the responsibility of the proposals, not with the occupations of the classrooms, nor with the motions of individual distrust [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u113	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u114	Mr President, I would like to thank my colleagues, but above all the Italians who may still have the patience to be in front of the television to understand what awaits them from tomorrow onwards. I would like to start my speech with an introductory note: since almost all the speeches by the majority have focused on an attack on oppositions, on the League, on the center-right, I remember, not to you who obviously have a short memory, but to those who look at us from home, that if the government can use for Italians the 55 billion euros we are talking about today, it is only because the League and the center-right have been in this House and have voted on the report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243 [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I say this out of honesty and it is strange - I say it to President Conte - that every nefariousness be rebuked to Salvini, the League and the center-right, but if we had not remained here today for the responsibility and for the love of Italy, you would have lost on the streets days and billions of euros, so at least be present when it comes to voting [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] During the speech by the President-in-Office of the Council I have heard many good intentions: we will do, study, help, work and prepare. I remember his tweet of 6 April that I read: 400 billion immediately of liquidity to the Italian companies, in addition to the 350 billion already liberated, we speak of 750 billion for the enterprises. The state is there. Italy runs. After twenty days I'm afraid it was his fantasy that ran, because the Italians are moving forward with their savings and their strength. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today we have heard many other commitments, but the judgment attributed with these three adjectives is not mine: phase 2, by the government a chaotic succession of uncertain and contradictory measures. He is not the subversive Salvini, but the appointed president of Confindustria Carlo Bonomi. So, if you have managed to make bishops, entrepreneurs, hairdressers, restaurateurs and parents in a week or are all leghistic or are all realistic. Evidently you're doing something wrong. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You can make a mistake in life, just don't make a mistake again. 15,000 geometers did not have 600 euros, 30,000 lawyers did not have 600 euros, disabled, cancer patients, widows who maybe take 50 euros of survivor did not have 600 euros. We ask you, on behalf of the Italians, to return to earth and to take care of those that may be daily tasks for someone, but for many Italians are the difference between life and death. We've heard enough of good words. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What do citizens expect from the Government, in Italy and around the world? Certain rules: tell us what to do and we do it. Based on what you tell us to do, we go out or we don't go out. I have the impression that someone is treating Italians like a people of kindergarten children who should be cared for, who should be given a stroll but not too far away, a bike ride but not too far away. I think the Italians have proved to be an extraordinarily respectful people and this is a lesson to some other European country and to some German newspaper that spoke of Italian pizza, mafia and mandolin that we have shown to be a people rich in dignity and generosity. But, President, let us give this confidence back to the Italians. You have appointed, remembered by colleagues of majority and opposition, dozens of Commissioners, experts, technicians and task forces who should explain to the Italians what they must do. Just tell us a few things, but those must be done. We have not understood - like the citizens from home who are following the speech - who can reopen and who cannot reopen, who must put the masks, how many customers, at what time it opens and at what time it closes, bars, restaurants, hairdressers, agents of commerce, hoteliers. You're not paid to list what's wrong. You're paid by the Italians to solve what's wrong! It's a big difference. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We can propose, you have to operate and there is a big difference. With regard to the Integration Fund, citizens will remember the solemn promise of 26 March live Facebook: to all by mid-April. It's April 30th. What happened to it? This is no longer the time to get lost in quirks. Of course there's a problem. We have the impression - this is what all entrepreneurs say, small, medium and large - that there is someone more important than others in influencing the government. Not the companies, not the producers, not the workers, not the parents but some very powerful lobby. Let's make a random name: CGIL. There's a whole country hostage to the CGIL that says what you can and can't do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Vouchers in agriculture no, vouchers in tourism no, tax peace no, I remove the code of procurement no. These gentlemen probably do not have the problem of collection at the end of the month and the government must choose between bureaucracy and stateism and freedom and producers. We prefer freedom and producers, with all the respect of the CGIL, but choose. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today many citizens expected a definite word about mortgages, which for many are not suspended and go to cash, rents and there are only some promises, on bills of water, electricity and gas. We keep the Italians in the house for fifty days, consume more, cannot work, cannot invoice but they have to pay and in addition they hear that the Revenue Agency is ready to knock at their doors with eight million debitory folders. In a normal country, in times of emergency, those eight million debitory records are excavated and torn one after the other. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I refuse to think that the state enters the house or enters a shop of people in difficulty with debitory records. There are so many proposals. At last we have remembered the families: for the moment zero, but we welcome the good intentions. There is a worrying birth rate, it was before the virus and it will be even more so after the virus. Many citizens wonder, because the money is not there for everyone and it is a matter of making some choices, if it is true that the State guarantees 25 euros per day to take care of an immigrant landed in Lampedusa. I think a child born in Italy deserves at least the same 25 euros a day. I say no more, but at least the same 25 euros a day. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] For the school it is a historic opportunity to invest in technology, but you don't have to do favors to friends of friends. I read that it is right to limit travel, but I wonder how it is possible to limit travel and combine this with a competition that will move tens of thousands of teachers in Italy, when there are 200,000 precarious teachers who have been going to schools for years and who can be stabilised tomorrow morning, without wasting time on anyone, being ready for September. So obviously there are A-series teachers and B-series teachers, A-series citizens and B-series citizens. The great common theme is freedom, which distinguishes us - and I hope to say so - from a certain social, economic and philosophical culture of the left. We have heard in these speeches that the state has been appointed several times: to centralize, to bureaucratize, to verify and to control a priori. In a moment of emergency and national reconstruction my and our project is exactly the opposite: to restore total freedom of action to the citizens and entrepreneurs of this country. Trust and trust in those who create work and create wealth; freedom of enterprise, educational freedom, freedom of worship, true trade union freedom, personal freedom, certainty of punishment. And we are waiting in this House for Minister Bonafede to explain why dozens of mafiosi lifers and delinquents have come out of prison with Italians locked in their homes. For someone the lockdown didn't work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I'm gonna go finish. VOICES FROM THE M5S GROUP. It's about time! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). What respect! Well, then we're the rude ones. There is someone here who has been allowed to criticize us who have made a very precise political choice, that of sleeping here to bring the voice of the Italians to this House and we will do so until concrete answers are given to the Italians in this House. Stop talking, stop talking! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups. Comments from the Majority Groups]] How patient. However, I wonder whether among those who have spoken in the majority, except for someone who has made absolutely clear and obvious judgments, there is someone who has never spoken with a VAT number, has ever entered a store or has ever had a problem with the mortgage: it seems to me that you live on Mars. We're gonna... we're gonna... we're gonna... we're gonna... we're gonna... we're gonna... we're [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Next time, Mr. President, come and say, "We've done... we've done... we've done..." [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I close with a reflection that is the one that will accompany our children in the next twenty years and it is a choice of life, like the one that was mentioned before, between centralism, bureaucracy, freedom and production. The Declaration of Independence of the United States of America contained these three lines: "All men are created equal." "They are endowed by the Creator with certain inalienable rights" (including life, freedom and the pursuit of happiness). The choices that will be made in this House will depend on the future of our children. Someone had at least the intellectual honesty to say it. Some people see a future for Italy as a Chinese colony. Some people see a future for Italy as a German colony. I, the League, the center-right and the democrats of this country see Italy as a proudly Italian future. Thank you and good work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]] Next time you don't bring us any promises, you bring us made. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u115	Senator Bernini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u116	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have heard the word lies: in fact, 158 is a real number; it is the number that the majority achieved for the deviation of EUR 550 billion to be allocated to Italy's suffering. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group),]] to which the minority has contributed, making itself decisive for the future of the country. Please, let's start by telling the truth. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, once again I address you; we have met on several occasions in this House and you have always spoken to us about the future: we will say, we will do, we will give. The future is now. Now we have to start doing facts. I heard you say something weird today that you never said. A particular mention of sectors in crisis: tourism, culture, family. However, we are not here, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, at a literary prize or on the night of the Oscars, here there are no mentions, we are in Parliament, the number one task force of the Italian Republic. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Here are for you Commissions, commissioners, committees, steering booths, this is the home of the Italians, the place that represents all the legitimate interests of the Italians. The only place you haven't searched so far. And I have to say that this has really and deeply upset us, because that means that you have tried to corner Parliament. A Parliament that actually represents everything you are. You swore on a Constitution that makes Parliament central, the central place of Italian democracy. You have not only neglected Parliament, but you have taken over powers that you have not managed in your own right, and you have delegated responsibility for your powers to technical and scientific committees. But, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ruling is not to delegate, it is to choose. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Governance does not mean not taking responsibility, it means making synthesis, not being afraid, not fleeing. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to say with deep respect that you, too, are escaping the vote, the judgment of the opposition, our judgment, the judgment of your colleagues. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] VOICE FROM THE FIBP-UDC GROUP. Bravo! BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Someone more stable, some others less stable. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] He's running away from real friends, his majority. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we cannot escape Parliament. You will still be judged. I felt this when on Sunday, on his last TV show, I realized and we all realized that something changed, something broke between her and the country. Do you know why? Because, as the opposition colleagues can say, and I am sure, in full intellectual honesty, that the majority of our colleagues have also been inundated with desperate demands. Look, these are just a few (The Senator shows a dossier) of the desperate demands of equally desperate citizens, who wondered what to do, how to manage the phantom phase two, which must be made of clarity of intent, not of opacity of procedures, of uncertainty about dates that always slip too far, of opacity on terms. This - said Mr Salvini, who preceded me - is not a game, it is not a semantic game. You speak very well, Mr President-in-Office, and you also have a fantastic haircut that we all envy. [[Laughter. Applause from the FIBP-UDC, FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] You know, the italic hairs have been a little abandoned to themselves lately, even because of you. As I said, the moment we talk to these people, we have to be their voice. I'll deliver you all these documents. They're letters, e-mails. Our social addresses have been flooded with these requests by people who say they want to reopen the factories, want to return to their companies, want to reopen their offices, want to rekindle the light in their shops, want to rekindle the windows, want to rekindle the stove and the coffee maker, want to assist their elderly [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] and help their disabled children, who have had no rehabilitation. You talk about disability, but the disabled have been abandoned for two months and my colleague from Bergamo knows it well. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I repeat, they were abandoned for two months. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is the real world. We need to reconnect with the real world. We must not be afraid to tell the truth to these people and, above all, we must not think - we are on television - that they do not see and do not understand what the Government is doing. Very banally and concretely we need facts; we need to stop tax deadlines. That you didn't come to mind in June to ask those who haven't earned so far to pay their taxes. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The fees must be moved at least to 31 December 2020. That you did not think - I have already heard this - to present yourself with 8.5 million tax investigations. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] in front of the doors of those who are trying hard to reopen a shop and perhaps the official of Equitalia is in front; that it did not come to mind. We need peace, we need to make a pact between the state and taxpayers. The state cannot be a very slow payer, who may pay, if and when he wants. Think of all the debts that public administration has to pay to entrepreneurs and has not yet done: EUR 70 billion. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It's not enough to say you're free of 12, you haven't freed anything yet. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are always talking to the future, but for two months we have been hearing you speak to the future, that is too much. The future is now. We need to be sure that those who have entered this crisis with real problems, perhaps with debts, will not come out even weaker. We have understood that the Covid-19 is not a level: those who have entered weak will come out even weaker and we must help to prevent this from happening. We have heard Minister Gualtieri and you say that no one will have to lose their jobs because of Covid-19. That's not true. This isn't happening. We must protect the freedom of the country, first of all the freedom of the prince, the right to work. You have a duty, Mr President-in-Office of the Council - and we have a duty to force you to do so - to make your labels real and to turn your titles into content. Decree liquidity: do we want to talk about it? Do any of you know entrepreneurs who have managed to get out of the swampy forest of the liquidity decree bureaucracy by obtaining a loan in the bank? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Even the Italian Banking Association itself apologized in advance saying: We're afraid something's gonna happen. We are afraid that social ills will be created because we are not able to do what the government has said that we will be able to do, we are not able to do. For 25,000 euros, for 25,000 euros. [[Senator De Bertoldi's comments.]] Not to mention the additional guarantees that should have more loans for medium-sized or large enterprises that are absolutely inaccessible. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Let us not then call liquidity what is absolutely illiquid. We do not fool the Italians, because the Italians, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, look at us, look at it and know who has responsibility and why. Again, there are 12 million citizens waiting for the Integration Fund. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And that famous 600 euro bonus -- which is 470, because it's not even tax-free -- they're still waiting for it. MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Bravo! BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). There are millions of Italians, artisan, commercial and industrial companies who are confidently asking to reopen. Mr President-in-Office, look at me. The mask must be free to reopen Italy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Make us free; make Italians free; restore Italians freedom. I have heard a great deal about the removal of freedom from the majority; if it is majority or opposition, I have not understood it, but there was a great deal about freedom on that side of the House. Freedom is not something you take away and return. Freedom is part of us: personal freedom, freedom of movement, freedom of establishment, freedom of movement, freedom of worship. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Fifteen people can stay in church if there is the deceased; if there is not the deceased, no. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, no, that is too much. Then give us back our freedom; give back to the Italians their freedom. Instant and real money, non-refundable contributions, stop deadlines and tax checks, stop bureaucracy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the future is now [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Do not come to this House and talk to the future, because we cannot accept it. You have never given us a hand, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, even though we have given you our willingness. Constructive opposition is a two-way path; it is not a path of unilateral listening and obedience of an opposition that sees systematically rejected all the amendments and all the good recipes thought in the interest of the country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator De Bertoldi]] We don't like to be fooled and we don't like to be fooled by Italians. We want freedom, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because, as Piero Calamandrei rightly said, freedom is like air and only when you miss it, do you realize how essential it is. Tomorrow is May 1st: let it be the feast of work, not the feast made by you at work and workers! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] To defend all freedoms, in the head the freedom to work, Forza Italia, as always, there is. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u117	Senator Maiorino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u118	Mr President, between yesterday and today this House has seen some rather heated moments, even a bit of tension and nervousness, while I believe that this is a moment that requires calm and lucidity. So I'd like to take a step back and also try to lower the tones a little bit, because I think there's an element out of sight, while it's determining. A step back: in 2015 a great editorial success was published, called "Homo Deus" by Noah Harari. The Israeli scholar argues that man, since his appearance, has had to deal with three scourges, on which he had no control (wars, famines and epidemics), and that our epoch differs from all previous ones precisely because man, through science, knowledge, technology and democratic institutions, has learned to control these three factors of profound destabilisation. Well, as I said, this book is from 2015, yet it seems from another era, to read it now. The number of contagions in the world today exceeds 3 million and deaths have reached more than 210,000. According to a study based on data from the World Health Organization, a billion people could become ill in the world in a short time, and we remember that in structurally more fragile countries the virus is emerging just now. I do not want to hurt anyone's sensitivity, but I think it is necessary to remind this House of the images that I think have shocked and taken the breath away from all of us just a few days ago: it has not been long since we saw, in an unreal silence, in our televisions (I have seen them on television, but someone had to see them live), the images of the military trucks carrying the coffins of the deceased outside Bergamo, because there were no more places for the dead either. Do we have control? So we have control over these events. Do we really have control over them? Isn't this the shock we suffered, the slap that took our certainties? We thought that such a situation could never occur and that we would be able to control it, but we found that it was not. However, paradoxically, although the discovery is very recent, there is still someone in this House, too, who seems to have forgotten Bergamo's images and to demand that everything, from today to tomorrow, returns exactly as before. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is, we pretend to erase what we have seen, what we have experienced and the spectre of what we could live and pretend that nothing has happened. Unfortunately, we were the first in Europe to be affected by this scourge and therefore we had to adopt solutions that also other countries followed, solutions for which Italy was praised by the World Health Organization, so much so that we talked about the Italian model. It has been said that France, Germany and Spain imitate the Italian model, but, Mr President, I wondered whether they were really imitating us. Perhaps the real truth is that there is no other way, there was no other way, and there has never been another way of reacting to this virus. We had already seen it in China, and yet - let's face it - we thought that that was another world and another story and that, if he had ever arrived here, it would have been different for us. But this is not a fault; this is human, it is the human reaction. All the countries have done it; all the countries have thought the same and the most paradigmatic example is that of the United Kingdom of Boris Johnson, who, from a position of pragmatic immunity of flock immediately had to return to his steps and close everything: they too closed everything to save themselves, because there is no other way. That's a fact. Let us then move on to the much-discussed phase two, which has also been criticised in this House, because obviously - as I said - someone thinks that suddenly everything can be reopened. And yet you, Mr President, had widely announced that phase two would be gradual and that it would be unthinkable to suddenly return to the reality that we lived before March. There are encouraging signs of a decline in the epidemiological curve, but graduality remains an obligation. Responsibility, graduality, prudence and the precautionary principle: as you said, Mr President, these are the principles which the government's action has inspired in a constant confrontation with science. This was also a cause of accusation; this was also a reason for criticism. You spoke of doxa and epistemology: Mr President, I fear that you have flew a little too high, sometimes, to this House. But we could talk about fake news and information. We chose to rely on science, why? Because there are still too many things we don't know about this vaccine. You have also mentioned this, Mr President: we do not yet know whether immunity really develops and how long it lasts. All research centers are focusing on finding a vaccine, but we are still not 100% sure that a vaccine can ever really be found, because there is no vaccine for SARS virus. Yet, politics has been accused of being fearless and hiding behind scientists, this is the fault. And the paradoxical thing is that this accusation came from those who, a few months ago, accused us instead of relying on shamanism. Then, shamanism was not good for him in August; today science is not good for him. I think that the short circuit is at the source of these criticisms and accusations and not, instead, in those who try to be inspired by the principles of science. President Conte, you have also mentioned the great European democracies. Well, I would like to remind everyone that Italy is not a monad without doors and windows and, the comparison is always opportune, that what others are doing is not unlike what we are doing. Those who had hastily tried to reopen, are also hastily turning back: France, which provided for the full reopening of schools on 11 May, has now said that it will be on a voluntary basis and this, yes, is a big responsibility that schools or individual provinces must assume. Also in Germany since Monday the contagion rate has returned to 1: we have also heard objections about this, but it is a fact that there is still no date in Germany for the reopening of bars, restaurants and beers. Spain also has its road map in four biweekly stages and everything is always revisitable depending on the course of the epidemiological curve. Mr President, you have already explained the economic measures extensively and in detail, so I will not dwell again on the illustration of the measures that this Government has already taken and is now making: the 25 billion, the 55 billion allocated and voted today with the budgetary deviation; the 8 billion lost for small and micro-enterprises. To date, there are 28,000 requests for a loan of 25,000 euros to 100% guarantee and the INPS has processed more applications for cash integration in this last month than it had escaped in the last five years. Now the ball passes to Europe, President. With regard to Europe, I can only thank you for what you have done, for at least restoring European dignity to this country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For years, the European Parliament has been - as we know - the elephant cemetery. Someone here has a short memory, but I remember it well, because the times are not far away when we were represented by improbable characters, who let themselves go to jokes from sports bars [[Applause from the M5S Group]] or performing boldly in conversations in foreign languages, throwing the whole country into embarrassment. Italy's inertia in Brussels was, of course, functional to being able to go back to homeland and shout that it was all the fault of a stepmother and bad Europe; but in reality there was simply no one there, then, who was able to defend the interests of the country. Today finally Italy is not only a country listened to, but it is a country that draws the line to follow also for other great States. So we got them to put on the instruments table so far not even hoped for. And all this has not been achieved, Mr President, by throwing punches on the table, as has always been said that it should be done, but it has got it - let's think about it! - with the strength of arguments [[Applause from the M5S Group]] and with a diplomatic capacity that this country had not known for decades. It is only thanks to the seriousness of the interlocutions that we can today discuss recovery funds, the pooling of debt, a massive plan of interventions by the ECB. The same Sure plan introduces a principle of solidarity, within the European Union, in finding the resources that until recently was completely unimaginable. But this, President Count, no one will recognize him; no one is recognizing him, except those who trust his action. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). He's misunderstood. MAIORIN (M5S). They accused you, Mr President, of everything and the opposite of everything: of decision-making and not decision-making, of talking to the nation too much or too little, too soon or too late. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They even accused you of being unconstitutional on the part of those who suspect that the Constitution has never even read it. So be it. She elegantly gave an answer. This country, President Conte, not only had the misfortune of being the first to be hit so hard by this epidemic, but it also had the misfortune of having the most irresponsible opposition! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Opposition which also has the brazenness to test the merit of the vote on the deviation of the DEF. So, even in this House, we have to deny yet another fake news. [[Comments of Senator Candiani]] The numbers were there. The numbers are there. A senator of ours has been injured and is in the hospital. With the majority they voted two other senators who are certainly not ascribable to the sensitivity of the center-right. There is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there is, there [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I conclude with an exhortation and a prayer, Mr President. Although we know how much sacrifice, how much commitment, how much effort the costs are costing you, we ask you to continue your work, for us and for the whole country, exactly as you are carrying it out. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u119	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u120	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I wish to address a thought of emotional closeness to the pain of the family, colleagues and friends of Agent Pasquale Apicella, tragically disappeared last Monday in Naples, in an attempt to stop a robbery together with my colleague Salvatore Colucci, who was also injured. Their sacrifice is yet another testimony to the courage of so many women and men, who, wearing with honor the uniform of the State Police, fight every day for the respect of legality. Heroes of everyday life who, even in this moment of national emergency, have never failed their commitment, their self-denial, to ensure the safety of all citizens. This moment of recollection also wants to be an opportunity to renew, to all the Forces of the order of public security, sentiments of strong gratitude, by this Assembly but by the whole country. To them, a heartfelt thank you. I call on the House to observe a minute's silence in memory of Agent Pasquale Apicella. [[The President and the Assembly observe a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u123	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to understand, on the part of the Presidency, how you intend to proceed with the events which took place in particular on the evening of last night: whether you intend to convene the Presidency Council or, in any case, what your decisions are on this matter, if you are already able to tell us today. However, my recommendation is that, in the short way, you should inform us how you want to move forward and what the decisions will be. Among other things, there has been a moment, from our very worrying point of view, of physical violence, with an act of violence against one of our fellow senators, which seems very serious to me, in front of the quaestors senators. So then, kindly, Mr President, you will let us know how you intend to behave.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u124	I will inform you shortly when it is possible to convene the Presidency Council on this point.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u125	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u126	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u127	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, fellow senators, on 27 April Senator Marino Cortese passed to a better life. He leaves a great void in politics and culture, not only in the city of Venice, his hometown, in which he lived and loved deeply. He has held significant roles in the institutions of our nation, in the City, in the Region, in Parliament; positions he has always exercised with the discipline and honor that our Constitution requires of those who exercise the public function and, in particular, to those who represent the community. He could not stand the screaming and clumsy politics. Of the political service he had a high vision, consistent with the conciliar teaching, which sees in politics the highest form of charity. He had the utmost consideration of the substance and also of the form of democracy. He said that the elections should be held, considering them a solemn moment of the Republic. This consideration was reinforced by having lived, as a child, the Nazi-fascist ignominy and therefore having lived on its own skin that democracy did not descend from heaven, but is a good fruit of the sacrifice of those who gave their lives for our freedom; a good, therefore, to be preserved and cultivated. He believed in the politics of dialogue, of confrontation, even frank, but always respectful, because he maintained that the goal of politics is the common good, which is the "good of everyone and of each person," and not the power of his own ego and exploitation of the people. Pierluigi Castagnetti tells him that he was his friend: Marino was a student, he was able to read the state budget with rare competence, he managed to crumble the complexity of the economy and institutional functioning, so as to make it understood even to non-experts. He'd rather raise his mind than his voice. And then, while he was right, he was not vain, if anything a natural and unconscious trait of intellectual aristocracy made him seemingly distant. Indeed, he liked the popular dimension of political commitment. Mr President, Marino has held high the flag of democratic Catholicism, a real political and cultural school, which has contributed decisively to the growth of our country and Europe, to the freedom of people, to development, capable of combining the production of wealth, with the promotion of rights, devoting particular attention to those who are most in difficulty. Born in Venice on 23 October 1938, he graduated in Ca' Foscari in economics and commerce and in the lagoon university he was president of the student body and on the national council, showing a calm and authoritative leadership. The formation of youth grew in Catholic Action and in the Italian Catholic University Federation (FUCI) and in the presence of Don Germano Pattaro. Enrolled in the Christian Democracy since 1955, then in the People's Party, followed all the subsequent evolution up to the Democratic Party. He had important roles as a political leader. He was for four Venetian regional councillors, from 1970 to 1987; President of the Commission for the Regional Statute, Vice-President of the Junta, Councillor for the Budget, President of the Commission for Public Works, Territory and Environment. Since 1987 he has been senator of the Republic, member of the Budget and Programming Commission, of the Bicameral Committee on Regional Affairs and of the Commission of Inquiry into the BNL-Atlanta scandal. He was City Councillor in Venice and Councillor for Culture and Tourism. Marino was always very attentive to the culture, which he always had at heart and to which he devoted his energies until the end of his days. He was Vice President, among other things, of the Fondazione Giorgio Cini, Councillor of the Fondazione musicale Malipiero di Asolo and of the Fondazione Ugo e Olga Levi, President of the International University of Art of Venice and, above all, President loved and highly esteemed of the Fondazione Querini Stampalia. Considered as few, he made available to this Foundation all his energies and skills to keep it faithful to the wishes of the founder. He leaves us a friend, a educated person, intelligent, endowed with class and elegance. We'll meet again, Marino. Now enjoy the meeting. Marino's family has a warm embrace.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u130	CORRADO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resumption of the speeches at the end of the sitting allows me to respond to a request that I received only yesterday. For the sake of clarity, this is how the letter, addressed to Mr Franceschini, in his capacity as Minister for Performing Arts, is read, aimed at obtaining a meeting with him, but shared with some of us, including myself, as a member of the Committee on Culture. He writes as a representative of the workers of the travelling show. As is well known, they are largely descendants of synths that, from India, travel far and wide Europe at least since the 14th century. They have been in Italy for five hundred years and - don't forget - they paid a very high price to the madness of the Nazi-fascist regimes. However, it is not the synthesis of internationally renowned circuses, to which a small part of the FUS goes and which we have auditioned several times in the Commission on the thorny issue of the disposal of animals, but the hysterical hysterical rides in possession of the license of a small travelling spectacle. When I say "journeys" I can only think, together with you, for association of ideas, also at the Fire Eater of Collodi; at Zampanò de "The Fellinian Road"; at the Sofronia of Calvino, which consists of two half cities, a stable and a temporary one, dismantled every end of the season; and again at the old Melquíades, which every year brought Macondo the latest news of the Menfi Savi. These are literary suggestions that I do not recall at random, but because the travelling spectacle and its architects are today a testimony having a character of civilization. I use with conviction the definition of cultural good introduced by the Commission Franceschini in the 1960s and corrected in 1998, giving space to the dimension of immateriality, but it is also on the point of becoming an archaeological finds, that is, out of metaphor, a phenomenon whose traces anthropologists and experts of immaterial culture in a few decades will have to recognize and interpret, acting as cultural mediators for the unsuspecting community. I am saying that each of us in this House associates the travelling spectacle with our own lives and, when I speak of carousels, immediately thinks of the small playgrounds that still materialize in our cities, from the North to the South of Italy, close to religious and civil festivals, and then disappear as quickly. Part of their charm lies precisely in the enchantment of this cyclicity, but our great-grandchildren may already struggle to associate them with a direct experience. The epidemiological emergency brought them to their knees as and more of other Italian workers, as and more of the other workers who cling to the heterogeneous category of the show, objectively prostrated. And the prospects for the immediate future are not rosy, especially if the Minister to whom they have rightly addressed should not take up their cause and try to support it with his colleague at the MEF. A short time ago, however, President Conte gave us guarantees in this respect. The pandemic has hit the entire sector hard, but the most fragile segments could give the blow of grace. It is right, then, that the choice to support or not to support the travelling spectacle, i.e. to decree its extinction, should be Mr Franceschini, because it is precisely a cultural choice before it is economic. Even from that we will understand where the Minister of Culture wants to take this country and where the country is willing to be taken. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u131	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u133	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, our Constitution in Article 20 says that the ecclesiastical character or the purpose of religion or worship of an association or institution cannot be the cause of special legislative limitations. Now the monstrous decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which may not actually be legislative, because they are unconstitutional already only for the form, have specifically discriminated against the aims of worship. Today for the rules governing life in this emergency phase you can stay in 15 people in the 40 square meters of a bus; in the 40 square meters of a shop can be only one person at a time if it is of a certain type and, if it is of another type, not one person; in a church of 100 or 150 square meters or of 11,000 square meters, like the Duomo of Milan, you can not stay; they can stay at most 15 people and only to participate in a funeral. This clearly discriminates against religious activity, of worship, from any other activity. If five, ten or fifteen people are in a park - for example - and are at their proper distances they can do gymnastics, but they cannot pray together, because otherwise it is a religious ceremony and, therefore, it is forbidden. It is something that even the People's Republic of China tries to hide: it does, but it tries to pretend that it is not. It is intolerable, unacceptable, discriminatory. The Constitution devotes at least five articles to religious freedom (Articles 3, 18, 19, 20, 7 and 8) and the President of the Council, at the time he had available, did not want to dedicate anything to this; in the decree bearing his signature, which he has now told us to bear the responsibility, he openly violated the Constitution. Such a measure discriminates against religious activities in relation to any other type of activity and could not be done by law either, or even if it were voted by all Members of Parliament, because it is against the Constitution and against the freedom of religion guaranteed by the Charter of Human Rights of the United Nations, the Fundamental Charter of the European Union and our Constitution. This is intolerable. I don't care if someone said it was okay with him. This is not good because it goes against freedom of religion and against the Constitution. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u136	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I asked for the floor to remind the House that on 14 August 2018 the bridge of Genoa, the bridge over Polcevera, was falling. This week the physical wound caused by the fall of the bridge was healed, because the last span was raised and the ribbon that joined the two banks of the valley was sewn up. And this happened - it is important to say it - in a timely manner and it was up to the expectations of the Ligurians and of Italy all, who looked at the reconstruction of a symbol, of an icon fallen into an Italian tragedy. This has happened and, therefore, I congratulate the Government, the local authorities and also the Commissioner for Reconstruction, and I am very pleased about that. However, perhaps because of my character, I am not used to seeing only and always the glass half full: there is still a wound that has not healed, and it is the wound so to speak moral, and not physical. The responsibilities for the fall of the bridge have not yet been established: the criminal ones are still sub-iudice and it will certainly be the criminal judiciary to certify them, but not even the administrative ones have been verified. There is - as everyone knows - an administrative procedure for the downgrading of motorway concessions to Autostrade for Italy, which has not yet been completed. It has been a long time; in October last year I asked a question to know what the state of the administrative procedure was, but I have not yet been given an answer. If the other behavior was to be commended for the fact that the bridge was rebuilt, I would say that this should instead be censored. Therefore, through it, I would ask you to report to the Government the request to answer the question submitted and to conclude the procedure, because that bridge did not fall due to an accident, but because those who had the duty to stand it did not do so; the bridge collapsed and therefore consequences, as the Movimento 5 Stars has always said from the beginning, there will have to be. Genoese don't forget, and neither do I. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u137	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u139	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, there has been a very serious situation today. We stayed in the Senate Chamber all the time to give voice and defend the interests of the Italians, even those of whom we are not talking about. Just five minutes ago it was said that more applications have been processed by the INPS in a month than in the last five years, but in fact since February the families have not yet received a penny, except thanks to what they have brought out the employers, those who could afford it [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The fact that we stayed in the Chamber subjected us Senators of the League to a vile press attack by Senator Toninelli. Dear Senator, who I see absent, because most likely he knew he was the subject of an intervention at the end of the session, and I do not call him a colleague because he does not deserve it [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] We will continue to give voice to those who are gagged by the will of a government of incapable and we will do it as, where and when we want to do it. So, get over it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] My colleague, Senator Toninelli, you have not only insulted us as women: you have insulted the Senate as an institution. I would therefore ask you, Mr President, to check what Senator Toninelli has said in the press. What I can anticipate, however, on behalf of myself and all my colleagues, is that we do not intend to tolerate insults that undermine our reputation and can limit ourselves in playing the role for which we have been elected. Long live freedom, which we defend in spite of you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u140	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-212.ana.u141	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 5 May, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.43 p.m.
