ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Mr Senators, I would like to address a thought of closeness and participation, on behalf of the whole House, to the family and friends of Senator Specchia, who died on 3 May in his Ostuni. Esteemed exponent of the national right, the story of Pino Specchia is that of a gallant man, of a passionate politician who has made consistency his main virtue, of an attentive and sensitive interpreter of the demands of citizens and territories of which he has become tireless spokesperson. For the first time elected to the Senate in 1987, it has been continuously confirmed to you for as many as five legislatures. Among the many positions held at Palazzo Madama, he was Clover of the Senate in the 12th legislature and Secretary of President in the 13th legislature. During his long parliamentary experience, Pino Specchia was a constant presence in the 13th Standing Senate Commission and the Bicameral Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle, promoting and rapporteur important environmental measures. I recall, in particular, his legislative initiative to amend Article 9 of the Constitution in order to introduce, among the fundamental principles, the protection of the natural environment in all its forms, in the belief that it was for Parliament to send a strong message to the Italians on the importance of preserving ecosystems and natural and energy resources, also in the interests of future generations. Retreating from active political life, Pino Specchia has never stopped dealing, despite a terrible illness that has marked the last years of his life, with the many issues that have hit his Puglia. An authoritative presence, an important adviser for many young administrators and many parliamentarians. In remembrance of Senator Pino Specchia, I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u7	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I wanted to join in the memory of Senator Specchia and thank her for accepting the invitation to remember him in this House. Pino Specchia was a member of the Senate for well nineteen years, from 1987 to 2006, so he was an important parliamentarians, not dedicated to the proscenium, but an expression of a genuine militancy. Militant of the political right, of the Italian Social Movement, city councilor in Ostuni, as we remembered first also with Senator Vitali and Senator Damiani, with people of our Group who have known the commitment on the territory, has collaborated with the Regional Group of the right of the Italian Social Movement to the Apulian Region and then with Domenico Mennitti, a protagonist of the political life of Apulia and national, of the Parliament and of the city and of the Province of Brindisi, and with Pinuccio Tatarella in the Region and then in the national politics. Pino Specchia was always in the front line, expression of a genuine militancy, seriousness, great moral correctness, great uprightness. Among other things, Specchia has devoted himself to environmental issues by trying to raise awareness of these issues in the right-wing world, by carrying out important functions in Parliament in the Commissions for this dedication, both the Environment Commission and the Commissions that have dealt with the waste cycle and also by taking on prestigious roles in the Assembly of Palazzo Madama, as you mentioned, as the Commissioner, as the Secretary of Presidency, as the President of the Commission, who is contentious. A Member of Parliament, therefore, who had had an important and important journey in this House and who had moved away from political commitment only because, even at a non-advanced age (Pino Specchia died at the age of seventy-seven) unfortunately the physical condition had not allowed him to continue a political commitment that has always been generous and appreciated and therefore it was right that the Assembly of Palazzo Madama reminded the figure also for comfort to the family and to all those who in Ostuni, Brindisi, in Puglia and in the field of politics of the Italian right have shared the commitment and have known the passion and seriousness. So we associate ourselves with the memory of Pino Specchia. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u8	Before giving the floor to the next senator, I would ask you to keep the safety distances in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u11	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group and, more generally, of those who recognize in Giuseppe Specchia, whom we all knew as Pino Specchia, a protagonist of the Italian right in its transformation and evolution that has also contributed to the transformation and evolution in the best of his Puglia and, more generally, of our country. Pino Specchia deeply loved his Ostuni and the province of Brindisi, with its contradictions of agricultural society that had quickly transformed into an industrial society. The problems related to the rapid transformation of the fabric of his land, he brought them in his parliamentary commitment which, not by chance, has distinguished itself in the Commission environment and territory and in that on the waste cycle. With his election, which took place for the first time in 1987 after a cursus of councilman Missino, Pino Specchia marks, to some extent, the transformation of the Apulian right, which had characteristics a bit noble, in a popular right, tied to the territory and expression of it; a right attentive to social needs. It was epic his battle - the battle of Pino Specchia that I remind many colleagues today - for the ransom of social housing, a battle that he pursued for years until success. Even today, those tenants, who became owners, thank him. He had a mild and cheerful character, but also determined and prepared, competent. He didn't love demagogy but he could speak to his people who rewarded him - the President recalled - with five consecutive elections practically plebiscites. Who knows him remembers him with a cigarette, unfortunately, always in his hands. They were small hands but in a big body. He could speak to the heart but also to the reason of his citizens. A strong man with courteous ways, always consistent but also profoundly sincere, firm in principles but never intransigent. For a long time he had retired to private life but continued to follow with assiduousness the administrative life of his Ostuni and dispensed advice and suggestions to friends and his fellow citizens, always for the protection of the good government, regardless of the sides. Before Maurizio Gasparri remembered how he had been, Pino Specchia, collaborator and friend of Domenico Mennitti, also elected to Brindisi, who contributed decisively to the evolution of the Italian right, and Pinuccio Tatarella. Two pillars of the political renewal of the right and the rebirth of the Puglia Region: Mirror had been valued and respected by both. I myself, for this reason, take the floor for the first time to commemorate a colleague, met him at that stage, in the 1980s, when we joined the Gruppo Proposto Italia, which promised to modernise the right missina. He became a senator for the first time in those years, but the prestigious assignment did not change his character. He always remained a simple man, though learned. He loved the countryside as well as Latin quotes. The countryside and the Latin language are a sign of respect for his and our tradition and for the remote identity of the peasant civilization that he accompanied in his transformation into an industrial society. Pino always dressed in a suit and tie, because he had respect for the dignity of his role, which he honored as many others, with a uprightness that everyone, friends and opponents, have always recognized in life and not only in death, when it is easy to speak. Only on Sunday he wore the sweater - he remembered someone in a Apulian newspaper - often wide, to turn among the Apulian farms to buy the products of the earth, which he then distributed to relatives and friends and which sometimes he also brought to his colleagues in Rome. With him, a man of party but not of faction, one of the last witnesses of a policy that is no longer there, rich in civil passions as intense as it is true, goes away to make marginal the even present personal and even political and ideological oppositions. Allow me to say to Pino: 'Hello, that boy you met when you first entered the Chamber, proud and fearful, he places you today, with deference, homage, together with the whole House, that you have been able to fully honour, and with us our Italy. Hi, Pino. Goodbye. May the earth, your land, which you loved so much, be light to you, as it knows how to be light to the children it recognizes as its own. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC groups and Senator Laus.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u14	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you for allowing this exception, because Senator Gasparri spoke for my Group. I wanted to intervene anyway to outline some aspects of Senator Specchia. You have outlined your public and institutional aspect in your work in this House for five legislative acts. I knew him at the beginning of my political experience; I witnessed his rise, the first time in 1987, to the office of Senator of the Republic. I can testify to his humanity, his enormous generosity, his equally great willingness to listen and to be a sounding board, in the parliamentary classrooms, of the needs of the territory of Brindisi. He was from Ostuni, I from nearby Francavilla Fontana. I contributed to his first election in 1987 and 1996 he gave me back that willingness and commitment. We were candidates, even in different branches of Parliament, in the same territory: he was the senator of Ostuni-Brindisi, I was the deputy of Francavilla-Ostuni. On that occasion - it was my first parliamentary experience - he was close to me, full of advice, attention, a point of reference even in times of discouragement, which even political life leads you to face. Pino was City Councillor but also Provincial Councillor of Brindisi and was a point of reference not only of his city and its Province, but of the entire Region. A humble person. I would like to recall that in 1987, when it was possible for the Province of Brindisi to indicate a candidate for the Senate for the Italian Social Movement, there were several candidates; I was part of that provincial executive, in which also sat characters later became parliamentarians (Senator Saccomanno and Senator Curto, Mr Epifani and Mr Manzoni). Mr Mennitti, who was the political leader of that territory, chose Specchia, who had no particular academic qualifications compared to the other potential candidates, was an official of the regional group of the Puglia Region: he chose him for his willingness, for his loyalty, for his constant and continuous commitment, to which he never failed. Unfortunately, the last years of your life have been marked, as you said, Mr President, by a serious and debilitating illness. With the death of Pino Specchia, the territory not only toast, but Apulian, loses a bulwark of reference. To Pino Specchia, even in this circumstance, I want to say thank you: thank you for what you did for your territory, thank you for what you did and that you also gave to my person. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u15	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1777, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Sbrollini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u16	Mr President, Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I shall try not to read the entire report, the content of which can be found in the text which I shall leave to the proceedings, but to make a few brief comments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u17	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u18	SBROLLINI, rapporteur. In the meantime, precisely because we are talking about a measure that comes at a dramatic and emergency moment for our country, it may seem like a gamble today, while I think exactly the opposite: I think it is a moment of light and hope, especially for the regions concerned, both for the Olympic law and therefore for the Olympics and Paralympics Winter Milano Cortina 2026, and for the finals ATP Torino 2021-2025. It is important precisely because we do it (and we did not know it before) starting from Regions that have been deeply affected by mourning, by the number of patients and where there are still people hospitalized in intensive therapies. It is therefore a sign of hope and of the future. That is why I believe - and I would like to thank the Minister - that it is important today to adopt this bill of conversion, which has been adopted almost unanimously in the other branch of Parliament. This measure aims precisely to promote and enhance the territories and the whole of our country from an economic, infrastructural, environmental, tourist and cultural point of view, bringing the benefits that are part of that important fabric of the great sporting events. The decree-law is composed - I say briefly - of three groups of rules. In the first three articles we talk mainly about governance and therefore the organization of the Olympics and Paralympics Milan Cortina 2026 and the norms for the organization of the final ATP of Turin, with an important investment of one billion euros (public and private investments), predicting that at least two million visitors will arrive in our country, when these important events will take place. Then there is the last part of the measure that enters into the matter of parasitic advertising and of the rules of order for the coordination between State, Regions and Autonomous Provinces in the organization of the events. The first part describes the stages that led to the designation of Italy starting from 2017, therefore for three years. A dossier has been prepared and there has been a unitary work of the Government, of the CONI, of all the national, regional and local institutions involved, beginning precisely from Lombardy, to Veneto, to the city of Turin regarding the ATP. For the Olympic Games the IOC has chosen Italy and in this context the Olympic Games will take place from 6 to 22 February 2026 and the Paralympics from 6 to 15 March 2026. For the Olympics, 14 race venues and six venues for the Paralympics have been identified. With regard to the economic and financial impact, the Government commissioned the Faculty of Economics of the University of Rome to study this subject, the results of which say very clearly that the State's outputs for the Olympic Games will be compensated by direct and indirect revenue linked to games. Two further regional studies were commissioned for the impact on the relevant territories: one was developed by Ca' Foscari University in Venice and the other by Bocconi University in Milan. The second part concerns the ATP finals of Turin 2021-2025. FIT and CONI have proposed Turin as a host city. There were several major cities competing with the city of Turin, such as Singapore, Tokyo, Manchester and London. I would like to point out this, because it is a success of all the national efforts and of all the institutions, without political color, at national and local level. The decree-law in question focuses above all on governance, on how the Olympic Games will be organised and on how all those infrastructure works that will remain in the future will have to be imprinted from now on, as always happens after the big events: I just want to remind the 2006 Olympics in Turin, which have brought great advantages to the territories involved, but I would say to the whole national territory. Finally, the rules, as I said before, establish the prohibition of parasitic advertising, prohibiting forms of advertising not authorized by the organizers of the events. My hope, Mr President, is that today we can adopt this important measure, as a sign of hope and of the future that also starts in this House, thinking first of all of the territories that have been most affected by the Covid-19. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, PD and FIBP-UDC.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u19	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u20	Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group, which will vote in favour of this measure, as it has already done in the House, highlights its importance in terms of substance and method. Certainly on the subject - and today we are all more aware of this than yesterday - because it concerns the possibility, or rather the certainty, of hosting in the year 2026 the event of the Olympic Games, the third of the Winter Olympics and the fourth event in absolute. An event that will certainly be - as we all hope and we will strive for it to be - a showcase of Italy that rises again. A showcase in the world of Italy rebuilt after the terrifying impact of coronavirus, which is a pure coincidence, but in history sometimes coincidences are signs, has hit specifically the Veneto and Lombardy Regions, who have chosen with determination, without ever giving up, to compete globally so that the Olympics were assigned to Italy and, specifically, to Cortina, Veneto, Milan, Lombardy and, in this case, by common decision, with many events distributed also in the territory of Trentino-Alto Adige. In 2026 therefore we can help to give this signal and this significant message to the Planet, starting from sport and sports technology, which underlies, and not only, the infrastructure system that is connected to it, from winter tourism, but not only, that characterizes that land, those Regions, our nation, and that is the sector most affected by the impact of coronavirus. We are therefore happy to have contributed from the moment of our choice, as parliamentary politicians who have also fought in this House and as administrators of the territory, so that Italy could have this great opportunity. To this end, among other things, we are convinced that the agendas that the Government has accepted are important in giving significant signals. Three in a specific way: to involve in the organizational committee the sports promotion agencies, because they are basic sports involving hundreds of thousands, millions of people with their production chains; the one that commits the Government to have Parliament consider possible appointments of extraordinary commissioners so that even at that stage there are awareness, transparency and sharing, we hope unanimously; the precise commitments regarding the modernization of the railway network, all the more in the light of the investments in the infrastructural field that today more than ever we must realize in the short term and, we all hope, according to the model of the new bridge Morandi of Genoa. This is what I wanted to highlight in this regard, confirming the vote of Brothers of Italy and his commitment in the acts following the realization of the great Olympics in Milan Cortina 2026. The second aspect, which I would like briefly to conclude, concerns the method. This measure has already been adopted almost unanimously by the House of Deputies with the consent of all political forces and will be approved today, I hope, unanimously by the Senate. We hoped that this would also happen for all the other measures more directly related to the health emergency and the economic emergency, which instead are carried out in a suspensory, contradictory way, often with pain from the same Government, as unfortunately shows in a striking way precisely in these hours the story, which I would call dramatic, for the consequences that can have in our productive fabric, of the so-called April decree, which must probably take the name of the May decree and we hope not take the name of June decree. These delays and, above all, the Commission's inability (because it is up to the Commission to demonstrate the opposite) to involve the opposition (as happens in other major Western democracies) in the elaboration of decisive, significant and extraordinary measures such as those that will have to lead us to face the economic and social emergency, which the Coronavirus incident caused to our country scream in a resounding way - and I want to highlight this - with this measure, which had been conceived before, but which is not by chance approved during the emergency of the Coronavirus, this time indeed unanimously. We would have wanted it and we committed ourselves to it. Unfortunately this has not happened so far, but we do not hope that it will happen in the coming days, in the coming weeks and in the coming months, because this emergency unfortunately for Italy will be more difficult and longer than that that other countries, even Western, are facing, as evidenced by the striking and resounding gap between the commitment and the resources that the European Commission has authorized to spend to Germany and the commitment and resources that up to now unfortunately our Government has managed to put on the field in Italy. Clamorous the gap, resounding the asymmetry that is being achieved, all the more dangerous in the light of the judgment of the German Court, which in fact threatens, with the interventions in support of Italy, also the foundations of the common European house. In giving our full consent to this measure, without claiming anything and without reproaching anything to those who probably wanted Italy to renounce the Olympic Games, and again, in giving our consent and our full support today and of course even after, until the full success of the Milan Cortina Olympics and the final ATP tennis in Turin and Piedmont, we hope that this will be the model to follow. We therefore hope that the Italian nation's commitment to sport and, through sport, to its national identity may be the model on which the Government, reckless and reappeared, manifests a real collaboration with the opposition as regards the most important and decisive measures to save and to revive our nation. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u22	Mr President, Minister, looking up these hours and these days at the Olympics in 2026 can be an important attitude for this country. The measure before us, as previous speakers have also said, has been constructed in a unified manner and shows a number of things. First of all, it shows that this country, if it wants and if it puts its head, can work in a cohesive way, not without political color, but by synthesising the different positions. The objective of the Olympic Games has been worked on by different municipal administrations, have worked on different regions, has worked decisively on the Italian State and, with different political visions, has tried to produce synthesis in order to achieve a great result of Italy and it has been done by putting into play one of our strengths, namely our image in the world, our attractiveness, is made first of all of our territory and our environmental heritage, which becomes one of the keys to these Olympics (I will return to this point) and then of our artistic heritage and the perception of Italy in the world. It is clear that these are all assets on which we must work to share with the dramatic situation we are in today. The expiry of these Olympics, 2026, is perfect and extraordinary (some said it is almost a sign of coincidence or providence) as they fly to reach that goal, which is absolutely not far away, with tools and concrete resources to start again. Starting work for the Olympic Games is important for Italy and in particular for the most affected territories. As a Lombard, I think today in a special way to the areas of the province of Bergamo, so touched by this event of 2026, that from tomorrow, the day after - to tell the truth from the past days - they are active to seize this opportunity. All these territories will receive useful resources for the realization of infrastructural works that, functional to the Olympics, will solve also many issues of road and mobility that for a long time required a solution and will remain also for the future. These resources will be the opportunity for all those communities to rethink, understand how to seize this opportunity and produce a great relapse concerning not only the period of the event and not only sports enthusiasts, but all those who will reach our country on that occasion. I said I'd come back to the topic of environmental heritage. Well, the Olympics 2026 must be - it is a categorical moral imperative - the Olympics of eco-sustainability: impacting, by their nature, the mountains (one of the most delicate, beautiful and important ecosystems), the Winter Olympics must be able to bring together the needs of movement and mobility, as well as the technical and technological needs of the Olympic Games with respect for the mountains and the achievement of a balance. The Olympics must be a great opportunity to reason that the restart we have to face cannot have the same characteristics as the past. We cannot start again as before; we cannot think that, after the change in climate and environmental data in recent weeks, when we have been forced to stop, we must start again with negative data, as already happened in the first few hours. In this way, in fact, we return to a wrong model like before. The performance of the Olympics 2026 in our extraordinary mountains and in those Regions (I refer to Lombardy and Veneto, Milan and Cortina) that are an extraordinary environmental heritage, but also the heart of the problem of climate crisis and the climatic adversities produced by man in Italy (it is in fact in these Regions that are concentrated some of the major environmental problems) is a great challenge. How we will manage those resources and organise these Olympics - hence the governance model contained in the measure - will demonstrate our ability. I would like to focus on this and conclude. We, as a Democratic Party, have been convinced from the first day that this could be achieved. We knew (I remember the discussion of those days) that Milan had, at this time of history and its perception in the world, a great force to put in place, that could have helped all Italy to achieve the goal of the Olympic Games - and I believe that it has been - and it has been difficult to find the possibility of not being competitors between different models (in a spirit that I would define as Olympic, where it is certainly competed, but the other is not an opponent or an enemy, but someone with whom we try to reach a better goal and to overcome historical records). That must be the target. The opportunity has been found to work together and the goal has been achieved; there are the resources to realize the great works necessary for that territory. We have to work like this. This is the appeal to all political forces in these hours, also in the practical difficulties of achieving the results and maintaining this spirit: it is right to say what does not work and to reason together on how to improve the measures, but the common goal is to achieve the results, as it will be for the Olympics 2026, for these works and for the ability of our country to get out improved from this dramatic situation and look forward. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, 2026 still seems a little far away, but it is around the corner. In this historical moment, characterized by social, economic, health and, if you allow me, also by limitations to individual freedom, sometimes absurd and excessive, the Olympics and Paralympics 2026 can represent a lighthouse to look at in a wider context of rebirth and hope for our country. I would like to begin by thanking all those who have spent their time in obtaining this candidacy, first of all the State Secretary to the Presidency of the Council with delegation to sport Giancarlo Giorgetti, the governors Luca Zaia and Attilio Fontana, the mayors of Cortina Gianpietro Ghedina and Milan Giuseppe Sala, the president of the Italian National Olympic Committee (CONI) Giovanni Malagò. Paradoxically, however, I also thank those who have tried to get in the way, those who have acted with a strong spirit of negativity and hostility, because they have provided those who believed us with an incredible force that has materialized with the achievement of the result. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] I still have before my eyes the image of the day when, after waiting with great apprehension for the decision concerning custody, all (athletes, sports and institutional administrators) embraced and exulted together, sending the message of a powerful team game and unity in achieving the goals. The main feature of these Olympic Games will be the involvement of several territories and realities ranging from Milan to Cortina, passing through Valtellina, the Province of Trento and Bolzano, with a worthy conclusion to the Verona Arena. For my Province, that of Belluno, the Olympic Games represent an almost unique opportunity for promotion and reflection on how to proceed in respect of the environment and the territory; respect - and it is well to emphasize - that the Bellunesi have always and constantly demonstrated. It is an objective fact, however, that there are some critical issues to be addressed and resolved: I think of an insufficient and weak road communication network that in a general view penalizes everyone. I refer, for example, to the A27 motorway, born on the time like the Venice-Monaco motorway in Bavaria and renamed Venice-Monco by the belumat because it stops, ends before Longarone. This interruption has punished precisely the territory of the high Belluno, rich in small and medium-sized enterprises, especially of the glasses, which have been forced to move downstream in order to survive, bringing all the consequences of the case, first of all the depopulation of the mountain. In this context the event of 2026 seems and must be a flywheel for everyone, especially for us mountainers sometimes reluctant, for culture and character, to changes and changes. The combined Milan Cortina, then, is perfect, is a trait d'union between the city where business and modernity swarm and Cortina and the other mountain resorts where the games take place, places rich in culture, identity and traditions. The union is therefore transformed by a potential machine of doing that involves everyone, but that needs the characteristics of linearity, effectiveness and simplicity. The winning Italy is that of the reconstruction of the Morandi bridge and the Expo of Milan; cases in which bureaucratic pastries have been set aside and have left room for a concreteness that can only do the good of the citizens. In this sense, I hope that things can take this turn for the Olympics as well. It is permissible to think of the appointment of one or more commissioners, as provided for in the decree-law, to bypass all bureaucratic pastries that would prevent the realization of any infrastructure. I try to explain myself better with a concrete example: in 2021 there will be - if God wills - the World Ski Touring Championships in Cortina. Also on this occasion certain works (ski slopes, gondolas, swimming pools, parking lots, etc.) were realized thanks to the management of a commissioner for a good success of the event. On the contrary, road traffic interventions have encountered a strong hostility of achievement, with six months of further delay due to supplementary authorisations, such as the environmental impact assessment (EIA), which at first did not seem necessary and other redundant documents. The result is that road construction sites that, as I mentioned earlier, are vital for these areas - in winter and summer periods it takes even three or four hours to travel less than 20 kilometers - are only starting now. It is obvious that it will not be possible to achieve them for the 2021 World Championship event. I am inspired by what I have just said to show also the bitterness of the representatives of the mountain territories, that is to say, the mayors of the neighbouring municipalities in Cortina, when they are faced with continuous by the Superintendence for the realization of any investment in mountain areas. One example is the Comelico, a pro-active territory full of potential, but vexed by constraints so absurd to force the inhabitants to seek work in nearby Carnia (in Friuli-Venezia Giulia) or in nearby Pusteria (Bolzano, South Tyrol), territories both belonging to the Regions with special statute, where these constraints are less heavy and managed with common sense, collaborating with local institutional representatives. After these considerations, which I hope will be collected by those in charge, since people are now exasperated, return to the Olympics and Paralympics Milan Cortina 2026, an event that we hope will benefit and that can also serve as a pilot action for method and times. The province of Belluno deserves a lot. It is a morphologically beautiful province, which includes the Dolomites, a UNESCO World Heritage Site, and I mention some places: the Three Peaks of Lavaredo, the Lake of Misurina, the Comelico, where Pope Wojtyla stayed in summer, the cansiglio rowing forest, the lake Santa Croce and many others. Historically it has an incredible height: very ancient commercial relations with Venice, but not only; figures like Tiziano Vecellio and, in order to get to modern times, Dino Buzzati and our Pope with the smile Albino Luciani, of Agorda origins. Very few names that are only part of the tip of a great iceberg: an identity, in short, that represents the strength, the ingenuity and the loyalty of the mountain people who, I am sure, on this occasion will be able to demonstrate. They will be organized games in the name of the environment, moved by an emotional spirit never lost to our territories, as well as by a sense of courage and perseverance that characterizes us and that on other occasions, even not beautiful, we have been able to demonstrate. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u25	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I listened very carefully to the speech by my previous colleague, Senator Saviane, who touched on some of the issues I wanted and asked to speak on this measure, which concerns the Milan Cortina Olympics and the ATP tennis finals. For me, as I think of course for all Italy, when finally there was the opportunity to see the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games held between the area of Cortina, on the one hand, and that of Milan, on the other, of course with the support of the Lombardy and Veneto Regions and the two Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, with an important opportunity for development for the economy and tourism of those areas, I must say that I had a moment of Italian joy that I wanted to share here today, because we do not always have moments of this kind. What are the three aspects I wanted to highlight? The first is that, in a time like this, which is certainly not the best from an economic point of view for the whole country, talking about infrastructure, businesses, tourism and, above all, of investments that will be made for these Olympic Games is a very important opportunity because of course it will have an impact, as I told you, for the Olympic villages that will be built, for the media and the press, for the renovation or even the construction of new facilities and of course for the construction of areas for cultural and recreational activities. We talk about a lot of money: in the project presented we expect 346 million euros, of which a large part - I must say - also put it by local administrators, both for the activities that I have described before and for the costs of managing and security of the event. There is, of course, a section which deals with the issues, rightly highlighted by my previous colleague, of road transport with bridges, viaducts and tunnels. All this represents a possibility to have an extraordinary input in sad moments like this, because we imagine not only what will be the influx of visitors (about 500 million), but above all because of the importance of the event from the point of view of employment: we speak of 5,500 people, with a peak of 8,500 at the best times. It is, therefore, a great push and an important economic return. Of course, speed, governance, the ability to set up the foundation that will act as a committee organizer on the one hand, and on the other, to proceed in a swift way for everything related to infrastructure is a bit of a bet. I do not know whether we can speed up or not with the Commissioner, but the most important thought I wanted to give you is that when we have to do something at speed, we regularly structure companies or committees or imagine Commissioners because ordinary rules prevent us from doing anything at speed. The right-hand centre says that in general the code of procurement and public works and the way in which the roads are built must be revised and this is yet another demonstration, because obviously we will seek not the codified roads, but completely different ways to be able to speed up the procedures, while ensuring governance and transparency in general of public evidence procedures. Having said that, I think it is important to remember one thing, which is what prompted me to intervene, as I said at the beginning. The Covid has brought many areas to its knees and at this moment we are discussing a measure that has had a long history and unity and gives us a perspective. In my opinion, it will have to be understood that every time we have to do things quickly, we need to make procedures more streamlined. I should like to add one final point. I was delighted when I saw that Cortina, Milan and Turin were able to win this bet, but I was particularly happy for Cortina. Let me explain why: when the Monti Government came, Cortina was practically bent from the economic point of view, because it was taken as a city symbol of the spectacularization of the fight against tax evasion. I hope someone will remember it, but I want to recall it: they took down checks on New Year's Eve, scared people and completely ruined the economy of an area. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , just because it was necessary to flag the fact that there was the Monti Government and that the Italians would basically all be made ordained. Of course, Cortina may have her limitations and flaws, whatever you want, but the economy of that area has been brought to her knees. The effect obtained was to shut down the shops and not to give them a push forward. Therefore, in memory of that mess, done simply because Europe asked for it, which considered us to be the birichini on duty, I say that I am glad that in Cortina we give ourselves the opportunity to be reborn. It is already doing so because the Venetians are people who work a lot and I am sure that they will be able to seize this opportunity, which they deserve after all what happened to them, as is obviously true for Milan, Turin and all the other realities involved. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u27	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u28	Mr President, there is a saying: "Everything is well that ends well." Although I do not hide from her that the chronicle - more than the history - of Italy in recent years at some point had really made us fear that good governance would be confused with the prohibition to do anything. Luckily, I repeat, everything is fine that ends well. At the beginning Turin did not want and then there was the problem of Rome on the other Olympics, but in the end the vote in the Chamber, virtually unanimously, on this decree-law makes me say that political opinion - in my opinion, the popular one was already quite unique - it was combined - without reference to a term that in these days is much used in other ways - in the ability to understand that opportunities such as the Winter Olympics of Milan and Cortina are a moment of wealth and growth for the country, not only economic. The economic aspect is rightly highlighted; the resulting infrastructure is rightly mentioned; it has rightly been claimed that it will not cost money to the state budget in clear terms. But even if they had cost money, I would have voted in favour of the idea of having these Olympics held in Italy. In fact, there is the ethical aspect, not only sporty: the Olympic Games give a message of participation and love, if we want to use this word often abused. So it is a gain for our community, but also for the way in which our children and young people can and must grow, because the Decubertian principle, the idea of participation not only to excel, which is the message of the Olympics, can only do good for an Italy too often launched in primacy competitions sometimes unmotivated. In this case, these Winter Olympics Milano Cortina 2026 will take place in two regions that are dear to me. I am Milanese of adoption, since I was a very small child, and I know how much the Milanese love Cortina and how much they love winter sports and on the other hand the choice could only be Cortina, without removing anything from the many other ski resorts, some involved, others for geographical reasons not involved, that make Italy one of the places where this wonderful sport can be practiced in a competitive and simply amateuristic way, to spend time doing a physical activity among the best possible. I am very confident that these Olympic Games will give back to Veneto and Lombardy - but not in 2026, since now, in the stage of preparation - what the contagion of this bloody coronary virus disease has tried to remove. The ability and industriousness of the Venetian people and the people of Lombardy will return clear and evident, even in this case without taking anything away from the rest of Italy. The organizational phase could not happen in a better place than any other part of our territory. I am sure, also thanks to the organizing committee, which for once seems to me entrusted in very good hands - I want to say this, even if we have not contributed in a particular way to the choices, indeed in no specific way - that everything will return to honor our nation, our homeland, our country, call it as you prefer. There is an expectation not only of the sports world and not only of those who know that the Olympic Games will be a revival of tourism, a development of new infrastructures, but there is a more general expectation, because after the coronavirus, the Olympic Games of 2026, which seem far away but are much closer than they seem, will mark not the beginning but the end of a reappropriation route by Italy of that ownership of a place of tourism par excellence, safe, beautiful, wonderful, fun, able to offer adequate infrastructure and to offer services to the level. If this path ends with those Olympics and puts Italian tourism back at the top completely, we will have done a double job, not only what had been thought when with a thousand labors (I want to spread a pitiful veil on contrasts, indecisions, doubts, everything we had to go through before) we have come to the affirmation that the Olympics are good for Italy and that they had to be organized, but if all this happens - and it will happen at that time - I believe that we will be proud of the choice that this Parliament helps to make operational today. There is one last remark I want to make: it was right to join the decree to our examination the provision that concerns the finals ATP tennis. It almost seemed to me - and it is the only note I make - a do ut des because Turin had not had the Olympics and then thought of something else. I hope that is not the criterion on which the decision was based. However, I am very happy that there is also the final of the tennis tournaments in Italy but I think that, from now on, we will not have to use the balance because occasions like these - especially like the Milan Cortina Winter Olympics - not only must be, as will happen, wanted by everyone, but must be desired by everyone, which is a different, better and more important thing. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u29	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with the conversion into law of the decree to our examination that will regulate the organization of the next Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games and the ATP finals, Italy declares itself ready to face the international sporting challenge launched when none of the competing countries reasoned about pandemics, confinement and emergency protocols. A more difficult challenge, therefore, than every premise ever imagined and every evaluation made at the time. A challenging test bench, but also an extraordinary opportunity for our country, for our sport, for our economy, for our entire community, since the great events, especially the sporting ones, have the power to aggregate the people far beyond the borders of the host territories, which also touches a load of supplementary responsibility, a surplus of burdens that, I am sure, will be largely compensated by the expected honors. Milan, Cortina and - let me stress this - my Turin receive today the first operating tools from which to bring down the organization and the realization of the important competitive events that await us between 2021 and 2026. They will be for those territories - among the most affected by the diffusion of the coronavirus and marked by pain and mourning - an injection of the future and a real and concrete opportunity to reverse the narrative of the last months. Thinking about the plan of investments and infrastructure connected to the Winter Olympics that will affect the Lombard towns in the coming years and that will be a valuable legacy for those areas, is for me reason of hope in these difficult days, but also of regret for having seen the candidacy to three of the Alps in its time, without good reason (remember that Turin was also in competition). 10:44 a.m. (LAUS followed). Yet, despite the political shortsightedness of some administrators, priests and priestesses of the No, I am convinced that Turin will be able to escape Calimero's syndrome and, in fact, turn the ATP finals into a confirmation of the reputation gained with the 2006 Olympic Games. In this sense, the role of the mayors will be crucial in terms of programmatic effectiveness, but also management responsibility, thanks to the centrality recognized by the decree-law in all its parts and even thanks to the unusual freedom of action they will enjoy. This is so true that, for the ATP Finals, the measures of adaptation of the plants can be deliberated even without the pronunciation of the city council and this in derogation to the general urbanistic instruments, as provided for in article 7. Knowing how to choose and know how to act in the direction identified and in the right times are the concrete expectations traced by the measure that we are preparing to approve, knowing not only that for the Olympic Games, but no less for tennis, the races are only the landing place of a journey that brings with it many promises of growth and many new opportunities, but also that the missed opportunity of another Turin to five circles could find compensation in a strategy of communicating vases between the two capitals, so close together. In fact, strategies and foresight now needs the sector that most of all awaits the start of the organizational machine in Piedmont, as in Lombardy. It is the tourist system, in fact, that most of all wants to play the Olympic game and that of the tennis of the great champions. In Turin, as in Milan and Cortina, the entrepreneurs of the receptive sector, put with their backs to the wall by the measures of containment of the pandemic by Covid-19, place many of their hopes of recovery in the sporting calendar that we begin to browse today. It will therefore be mandatory to put themselves on the same frequency and maximize the possibilities of development offered by the major events. In particular, on the finals ATP I like to remember that the week or a little more competitions planned each year, from 2021 to 2025, will be only the culmination of a promotion of the territory to be spread over the five years at international level and, thanks also to Italian talents, at a more domestic level, in the awareness that every future action will have to take into account the changing scenarios that will force us to exit the emergency health. If we are good, then around the professional tournament there will be smaller and yet no less valuable events. If we are good, tennis can become a figure not only of the capital of Sabaudo but, through that, of the whole of Italy, as already happens for other disciplines. If we are good, we will have the opportunity to shape an imagination that has always distinguished our country and that for three months now, on the other hand, seems to us just a dream. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u31	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating draft law No 1777 at a tragic time for our country. We're going through a nightmare, which I hope we'll get out of as soon as possible. Already at the time of the award of the Olympic Games, obtained thanks to the perseverance of the governors of Lombardy and Veneto and Mr Giorgetti, there had been a feeling of enthusiasm, success and credibility; a moment considered already in that period of fundamental importance for the prestige of Italian sport and for the infrastructural revival of the North and our nation. These motivations become even more important now, at this moment, when, due to the emergency dictated by the coronavirus pandemic, the Regions particularly affected by the virus, Lombardy and Veneto, are precisely those that will host the Winter Olympic Games of 2026; two Regions that have been severely affected by the epidemic, where the suffering for the loss of their loved ones has reached levels that we could never have imagined; where the entrepreneurial heart of our country, driving the economy, the locomotive, appears in distress; where, if they do not arrive resources, the risk is to fail to rise, with all the social repercussions on all classes and classes. This is why the Italian Olympic project for 2026 is even more important: an opportunity to show that the works planned for the Olympic Games will be the petrol needed for the restart of the economy and an exceptional flywheel for the productive rebirth of the territories concerned and, consequently, for the whole of Italy. It is an opportunity, but it must not be wasted, and times are crucial. The strategic choices, after an accurate analysis of the situation of the territory and its needs, and the development objectives, with short and medium-range timing, would have needed more sharing, with the acceptance of our proposals starting from the transition to the Chamber of Deputies. This could be the occasion: to replace the culture of suspicion with that of transparency. And there is no more right moment than the present one to activate such a choice. It's important to move fast. In these months Italian has proved to be responsible. In this moment of crisis, the greatest since the Second World War, we must believe in reconstruction, we must believe in freedom and responsibility. We need a state close to the citizens and their businesses; few and clear rules. The culture of suspicion must be replaced by that of transparency; only in this way will it be possible to quickly implement the major infrastructure projects, which are essential for recovery. It is necessary to replace the current procedures with streamlined and already tested procedures, such as the Genoa model, allowing transparency to avert episodes of will or corruption. Dear colleagues, did the Genoa model work or not? In our opinion, yes! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Never has such an important work, now in the final stage, been carried out in such a short time. That is why we ask that this model also be used for the Olympic works: speed, efficiency, practicality and transparency. We want to avoid the risk of arriving at such an important late date, as has, unfortunately, often already happened. Then why do you keep saying "no" to this system? You flunked him in the House and kept fighting him in the Senate. We believe in this great opportunity and we believed in it from the start, but we must emphasize that those who govern today have put a dissonant note in the text: the tax exemption for the managers and employees of the organizing committee, which, even if reduced at first reading, surprises us equally from those who, in the fight of populism, although by now being caste, shout in these classrooms against privileges. Well, maybe it was better to give these privileges to our doctors and health workers right now, as we asked for, and not just thank them with two pats on their shoulders. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would point out, for those who did not know or had missed it, that we are not talking about crumbs, but we are talking about almost 50 million euros: 50 million euros that you reduced at first reading in the House, reviewing the scheme of facilities to 45 million. Don't tease us and don't tease, with us, even the Italians and the health care staff, to whom you didn't agree to apply it as a prize: stuff to hide, if I were you. I remember that at the top of the organizational committee we talk about salaries of 400-500,000 euros, not normal salaries. So try to make an effort and rethink it, not to create inequalities certainly not consonant with the moment we are passing. We strongly support the Milan Cortina Olympics 2026 and the ATP in Turin, remembering that the exceptional event offers us an opportunity, that of rethinking the rules that govern society and our economy. We will be able to seize this opportunity and even these Olympic Games can give us back the momentum to restart the country. Let us not waste time; certain rules and responsibilities are fundamental. Let's not miss this great opportunity and show what Italy is, what Lombards, Venetians and Trentinos can do and what Italians can do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u34	Mr President, I will make a speech that wants to put some seed, since we are in front of six years and now the Winter Olympics will take place. The first consideration is that the mountain environment is one of the most fragile ecosystems; as a result, any tampering in a mountain environment is the one that has a longer time to re-absorb. The second is that we took some Olympics that nobody finally wanted, because many nations have paraded, since it has become quite problematic to be able to make ends meet, but I do not want to make a controversy of money. I would like to point out the following: there has been talk - and rightly so - of the reusability of the facilities and structures that will be built. This should be clarified. When it comes to an Olympic descent track, we are talking about doing something that is comparable to the irrigation system in our own garden. I want to say that a heavy tampering occurs every time you dare to open a new track, so you have to be very careful about this, because it requires first the excavation; after that, the turf must be continuously preserved and, therefore, you must always use fertilizers; if it doesn't rain, you have to irrigate and tear down all the pipes for the planned snowing to the top. In front of us there is still the sad world championship of Sierra Nevada, which had to be postponed due to the lack of snow; or even the Winter Olympics in Nagano, where one day it was raining and the other there was the storm of snow, so you could not understand when to do the races. In such a situation, planned snowmaking is mandatory and, therefore, the whole mechanism must be set up. After that, you have to create the tanks for the storage of water. For those who have not seen them, the tubs that are built in the high mountains in the stones are composed of huge concrete slabs, approached to make a huge cup, which must be constantly kept full of water; therefore, the water must be brought to you somewhere else. Then there are all pumping systems and, consequently, a strong pressure on the use and management of water in the mountain environment. All of this needs to be evaluated. I hope you don't think about opening up new leads that may only be used once. Also in this regard, we remember that in the 1992 Albertville Olympics someone put in the head that the Oriller-Killy track of Val d'Isère was no longer good, so it was necessary to make another one that was called Face de Bellevarde, on a mountain called Bellevarde, used only that time, once. On the other hand, the Olympic tracks can also be used by people - as it were - normal while other systems such as jump trampolines have a very limited use, especially if they cannot be inserted into the international jump circuit from the trampoline, as was intended for Turin in 2006, but it did not happen. Therefore, the usability of an Olympic trampoline is linked to how many people can objectively use it, and they are very few. It is used for workouts, when of course there is snow, so theoretical reusability can always exist, but that practice to a lesser extent. With regard to the bob track, the same applies: it can be used with the bob, with the toboggan, but it is linked to professional use, in the sense that the ability necessary to use on a ski track is not that required for a bob track and, therefore, also in this case, attention should be paid. The third point concerns reception. The Olympic villages have always been a thorn in the flank because they require thousands and thousands of places to accommodate people (in this case it is estimated that there are 12,000). The question is as follows: can 12,000 new stable buildings be allowed in an already abundantly anthropized environment, such as that of the high Province of Belluno? Do we really want to think of increasing the offer by 12,000, hoping that winter tourism will be so supported that it will be absorbed? Otherwise, we risk having a cast of cube that will not have any further use. Let's remember that Cortina has already given in 1956, so some plants are not completely to be thrown away; we must think also in this type of optics precisely because, if the mountain environment is compromised to the point of making a small copy of the plain environment, it completely loses its beauty and is completely distorted. In conclusion, I hope that the path is the one proposed to avoid mistakes that have already happened in the past, as happened with the Pragelato trampolines. [[Applause from the Mixed Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paroli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rules we face today for the preparation and organisation of the upcoming Winter Olympics and Paralympic Games of 2026 in Milan Cortina and for the Turin APT tennis finals of 2021-2025 concern events that decide whether in the future of our country there will be a role as spectator or protagonist. Unfortunately, at this historic moment there are also the incidence and coincidence that the territories and categories affected by the measure in our examination are also the most affected by the effects of the Covid-19. Lombardy was the front of this epidemic that is still fighting with victims and devastating effects for the economy, tourism, sport and dedicated associative realities. Colleagues, it is an opportunity, however, this must be a great opportunity: an opportunity that we cannot miss. Lombardy and Milan have already demonstrated great organizational skills and results with Expo 2015, which we all remember, strongly wanted by the then mayor of Milano Letizia Moratti, but in continuity carried out by all the institutions. Also on that occasion there was a huge team work: the CONI, the Lombardy Region, Veneto and the provinces of Trento and Bolzano have virtuously reached a really important goal, which unfortunately, however, can not make forget the attitude of the government of then, stuttering and, at some moments, even embarrassing, and the behavior of the city of Turin that I define incomprehensible, and here I stop. We feared the worst, but the result was achieved. The goal was achieved, also because what had happened a short time before with Rome's renunciation of the candidacy for the Olympics, which had and left its mark. How can we not remember the motivations of that time? He said no to the Olympics to say no to costs. It's embarrassing. And again: works equal corruption and, therefore, we do not do. No, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot have that attitude. We say works equal development, services and work and that is what we are sure will happen on this occasion. Of course, we need planning and trust in the institutions involved, starting with the local authorities involved and - as we said earlier - we need to learn something from the lesson of the Ponte di Genova; where local authorities are involved, giving them confidence, closer to the territory, the more you can have immediate answers [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] and those achievements which citizens appreciate and which they need in this case. I have talked about programming; local authorities must be involved and know how to indicate investments, which have two functions. The first certainly is to make our country capable of pride in the world, because on occasions like these Italy has always had a fundamental role as an echo and as a capacity to spread a positive and welcoming message in the world, with everything that represents our country that I am not here to remember. All this, however, cannot forget the following. Woe to do useless works, woe to do works that do not remain useful in time. Here, it is also fundamental in this that the indications of the local authorities are transposed so that there is the possibility of creating works on the territory that, even after the Olympics, are used, become a moment of reception and involvement. We know very well how fundamental it is, not only in our country, the fact that sports organisations and associations are given adequate facilities and facilities to carry out their work and task especially with the youngest. But I think - for example - also of the active involvement of territories - I tell the Minister - that to date they are not directly indicated, but they are capable, especially in Lombardy, of receptiveness and have very high-level facilities. I think - for example - of the Upper Camonica Valley, Wood Bridge, Tonale and Temù; plants which now have a European basin, if not a global one, as capacity for performance and interest. They must then be not forgotten and used the same can be said for some Bergamo valleys, which are up to being places of training and retreats for the different national representative. So let's not forget this and let's not forget the involvement, especially with regard to the vast territory of Lombardy, of local realities that can give answers and really create that virtuous flywheel that Lombardy and our country never need at this time. For this reason and with this will Forza Italia is in favour of the measure under consideration and will not miss its vote today, but will not miss its collaboration in the future. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the debate on the conversion into law of this decree-law comes at a particular time for our country, as for other nations of the world. In these hours even Italy continues its battle against the virus that has put everyone to a hard test. Discussing here and at this time of important events that will take place in 2026 for part of the public opinion may seem strange, in the face of the obligations of social distance and in the face of the pain of the many people who have left us and of their family members, who could not bring a final greeting. In the face of a difficult restart, this discussion may seem out of place. On the contrary, we all know that this is not the case, because it is up to the institutions and Parliament not only to manage the present, but also and above all to plan and build the future. And it is undoubtedly also thanks to the ability of programming and the ambitions of a courageous political class, which has been able to work together, that today Italy can afford to host major events such as the Olympics and the Winter Paralympics of 2026 or the ATP tennis Finals in 2021, in cities like Milan, Cortina d'Ampezzo and Turin, which - I am sure - will be able to meet this great challenge. Here it is up to us to build the best conditions because that piece of the future is also the symbol of a hope and the symbol of a return to normality for Regions such as Lombardy, Veneto and Piedmont, which more than all in recent months have suffered the damage and consequences of this heavy pandemic. Mr President, just these days we remember the start, five years ago, of Expo 2015, the international event that has contributed so much to strengthen the image of Milan in Europe and in the world, ensuring investments and political-administrative choices that have improved the quality of life of the Milanese; made to discover or rediscover to Italians and foreigners a beautiful, modern city, prepared for the future, and assured an important distribution of wealth not only to the capital of Lombardy. That experience shows that investing in international challenges brings much more benefits than the costs and difficulties to be faced. To have believed us, to have cooperated between different institutions, to have built the legal and administrative conditions so that the challenge could be won continues to represent an extraordinary reference also for the choices we are preparing to make and that we will still do in view of the Olympics and Paralympics winter of 2026 and the ATP tennis finals of 2021. The importance of making us ready for these great occasions is twofold and, not only for the interest of proving once again to the world that Italy is up to the challenges, with its abilities, its beauty, its excellence, its knowledge and its culture, but also and above all for the need to know how to fully grasp the cultural and economic benefits that such important events can offer and build. Two studies commissioned by the universities Sapienza of Rome and Bocconi of Milan tell us that the Olympic Games will not only be a great sporting event, but will also produce economic and social growth, with the increase of tourism, with infrastructure improvement, with improvements on environmental sustainability and with the promotion of our territories, which is worth millions of euros and thousands of jobs, without calculating the infrastructural legacy that will be left to the young athletes of our country and the social benefits that will ripen from a great work of cutting down the architectural barriers that will also be foreseen thanks to the approval of the decree-law under consideration, in addition to the measures of eco-sustainability that will characterize these events. Baron Pierre de Coubertin said that sport goes to seek fear to dominate it, the struggle to triumph, the difficulties to overcome them. I believe that today - all together - we can begin to imagine a new page not only for sport and for Milan, Cortina d'Ampezzo and Turin, but also for the future of a country that has the courage and the desire to put fear behind it and return to winning and triumph. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u39	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind everyone that there are fixed posts for the speakers identified for each group. Therefore, please comply with this provision.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u40	Senator Iannone is enlisted to speak, and I invite him to reach the assigned post. I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister - as my colleagues, Senator Urso and Senator La Russa have said better - Brothers of Italy have already firmly voted in favour of the provision in the House of Deputies and are also preparing to do here in the Senate, because we have always been absolute supporters of the importance of major sporting events in the social and material economy of our nation. We all exulted when we managed to get the candidacy and, therefore, also in the light of the very difficult moment that we have lived and that unfortunately we are still living, it is in our opinion a beautiful message to hook up to sport the very idea of the resumption of the nation. We are absolutely convinced that this will generate a wave of economic and social optimism and, therefore, as a Group, we have been working for the first time in this direction. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission, the rapporteur, the Presidency and everyone for the spirit in which we have worked on this measure. We were asked to give up the amendments, but honestly ours was not an obstacle to delay the final adoption of the measure. We felt that safeguarding the dignity of this Chamber was something to keep always in mind, naturally convinced as we are that every provision - even the best - being a child of human activity, always excludes perfection. I want intellectually to thank the government for accepting our three agendas. We hope that on the events that we have summarized there will be a concrete attention from the Government, because the organizational aspects and participation of the whole sports world related to the realization of this national enterprise - so I want to define it - are fundamental for the best possible success. I therefore thank the Minister. It is my intention, however, also to dedicate some passages and reflections on the very serious moment that also lives the field of sport, where historical issues are aggravated by the contingency of the emergency coronavirus. The cry of alarm and difficulty coming from the base of the sports world, Minister, requires the utmost attention, if we do not want to disperse in this area too a heritage of values and experiences that we have and that from this point of view have always recognized Italy as a country of excellence. Being close to the sports federations, the associated sports disciplines, the social promotion agencies is essential to ensure that sport is a concrete heritage of all and that, through its representatives, it can find the answers that have long been expected in terms of attention and balance in the allocation of resources, especially at a time when we know that there has been a change in the governmental assets of the sports world with the reform that has concerned its organization, with the substantial transformation of the CONI. I would like to thank my colleague Barbaro della Lega, who has given us the opportunity, precisely by asking for hearings on the measure under discussion, to listen better to the deepest needs that the sports world currently feels and to which we are sensitive and to which we are united. Therefore, Minister, in the next steps we expect and support more and more concrete action for the sports world, so that the machine can start again safely. Similarly, as a representative of a group that believes in the value of the country, I would like to say that events such as the Olympic Games and the ATP Finals obviously represent a wealth and an opportunity for the whole nation. However, as a Southern man I would also like to say that I believe it is an ambitious goal for the future, perhaps for 2032, to candidate South Italy with its capital Naples for a sporting event of the highest international importance. I believe that it would be the fulfilment of a policy that does not call for territoriality in a sterile way, but that really gives the sense of a nation that as a whole is capable of feeling united and expressing, from North to South and from South to North, the quality of its sociality. De Coubertin said that the important thing is to participate, but we must bear in mind that only those who have the opportunity to express themselves can win. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u42	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our country is going through a complex and complex phase of its history; a phase in which action and responsibility, to be understood as areas of preparation and proposal, take on itself the function of filling the necessary distance between each of us. At a time when action and responsibility are fundamental elements for the life of the community, the measure under discussion realizes an objective, an idea-force, a social vector that determines thrusts, rekindles a hope, a democratic torch in living places. The Olympic law must be read as an extraordinary opportunity to restore strength and vitality to our communities. After the necessary renunciations, after experiencing a way of living away from our usual habits, the Winter Olympics 2026, together with the ATP finals in Turin, allow us to look to the future and see it better. Today we launch a further important signal for the restart of our country and a vital perspective also for the world of sport, which has lived with great sacrifice this period. The blocking of activities, which is now at last gradually recovering, has deprived millions of citizens and thousands of sports associations and societies of the opportunity to play their role, which is also a social role, which has not been fully possible. It is above all to them, therefore, that we must dedicate this goal. The assignment of these two great sporting events, the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games Milano Cortina 2026 and the ATP tennis finals that will be hosted in Turin from 2021 until 2025, are a reason for great trust and great pride for Italy and the seeing them realized in the territories most heavily affected by the pandemic will be even more so. The organization of events of absolute level like these puts politics in front of a great challenge: the commitment to make our country return epicenter of world sport, with the intention to sew up the fabric of a torn territory, from an economic point of view certainly, but also social, environmental, cultural and human; a reminder of the territory, to say it with Renzo Piano, but also social, how much necessary hic et nun, which precisely keeps, keeps together and relaunches, in the perspective of an overall regeneration that preserves innovation, with an important plan of infrastructure and transport. Sports events of this magnitude - those we are talking about - will undoubtedly have this task and, if it is true that every choice of politics is carried out and is realized in the specificity of a sector - in this case sport - it is also true that the regulatory act assumes on itself real strength and substance in the breadth of a holistic vision, overall, that harmonizes the different plans of the community and becomes a vector of civilization, an engine of economic recovery, as much necessary in this period for our country. Already in the Sub-Committee opinions, as rapporteur I have highlighted how the programming of the Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games of 2026 is inspired by an entirely new paradigm, which has streamlined and deburred the organization, making it more flexible than the conditions, needs and perspectives of the territories, allowing its development in the name of heritage and sustainability, principles of responsibility in the present, which outline a stable line and characterize the horizon of the future. The same forecast to constitute the public society Infrastructures Milan Cortina 2020-2026, to which it is entrusted the task to realize the works previewed for the performance of the sporting event, in coherence with the indications of the organizing committee and the operation of the foundation, aims to guarantee precisely the sustainability of the Olympics and the Paralympics under several important profiles, making the structures actually usable and therefore accessible, also thanks to the previewed massive elimination of the architectural barriers. In the same way, I am also addressing you, Minister, to the establishment of the Forum for Sustainability and Olympic Heritage, which has the fundamental task - as we said - of protecting the Olympic heritage, namely to promote initiatives for the long-term use of the infrastructures implemented for games, as well as to allow the continued social, economic and environmental benefits on the territories, including with regard to the needs of sports practice by persons with disabilities, in compliance with the principles established by the UN Convention for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and in accordance with the references set out in the Olympic Charter. A broad and long-term vision that, with the direct acceptance and involvement of environmental associations, collecting and interpreting fully the address of the green new deal, the cornerstone of our sensitivity and commitment, program interventions that are not suffered by the environment, but maintained and preserved in respect of the same. Supporting the Olympic and Paralympic heritage means ensuring that the works carried out and, therefore, the resources committed can continue in the future to constitute an economic value and not only for the entire territory involved and for the community that lives it. I am thinking, above all, of the many opportunities for development and employment, starting with tourism, which can be grasped in the years following the games. This legacy also means conveying to future generations the centrality of a social ethical principle, where sport always declines in the protection of rights, in the maintenance of a healthy environment and, above all, in the noble sense of an Olympic heritage as an irreplaceable instrument of human and social cohesion between people and generations, thus emptying that culture of waste and consumption that deviates from ethical principles and planning, rather, a vision that is based on the principle of conservation in itinere. The second part of this decree concerns the great tennis in our home: the assignment to the Turin headquarters proves once again that Italy is a leading country in the world of tennis and, above all, a reliable country and comes to crown the excellent goals achieved by Italian tennis with the competitive results of our best athletes, as well as rewarding the great successes of the international organizations of Italy at the Italian Forum and for some years at the Next Gen ATP in Milan. The event will produce an economic input of about 500 million euros over five years with significant direct and indirect effects. It is estimated attendance for about 250,000 people during the eight days of the race thanks to the circumstance that Turin has a system covered by 15,000 seats. We are talking, that is, about the greatest indoor capacity in Italy. The finals ATP Finals are a prestigious event that will bring lustre to the entire Italian tennis movement and it will be the task of the Italian tennis Federation, to which we must recognize the great merit of having brought our country to the top of the world tennis, taking care of its organization for the development. With this law we give a strong and clear signal: Italy is ready and sport, in the incessant dialectic between victory and defeat, both strong in their educational and formative relapses, performs the miracle of putting in the field the ethical beauty of sacrifice and competition transformed into civil values capable of defining precise and concrete economic orientations. The beauty of sacrifice and of making sacred are translated into the attribution of a very high value to what we do and then the beauty of competition is recovered in the collaborative aspect inherent in the outcome and the etymology of the cum petere (to go together, to converge) towards the goal itself and in a perspective of growth also economic that includes relationships and characteristics. Through this measure we also go to reaffirm the civil figure of sport and its values that, in their Olympic sovereignty, have crossed history and in whose name we work together today to build a new history. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u44	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u45	Mr President, Minister, fellow Senators and Senators, as a Piedmontese, I can only begin my speech by stigmatizing the work or, better, the failure of the mayor of the city of Turin, Happyino, a prominent exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars, who, despite a government in his time more than friend, was able to make the capital Sabauda, already home to an important Olympic in 2006, the largest sporting event in the world scheduled in the coming years: the Olympics 2026. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Unfortunately, I highlight this aspect in order to point out to you, colleagues, the prospective inability of the Turin government, unable to manage its municipal councillors: an overwhelming majority of a unique color that was not able to say yes; it split, split and then said no. I wanted to point out to Minister Spadafora - but I do not see him here in the Chamber - that perhaps he did not notice that the masterplan attached to the presentation dossier, dated April 17, still indicated which seat of the Olympic Games the city of Turin. It was a good auspicious, but in the end... [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u46	Senator Airola, please. He was outside and everything was fine.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u47	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). The truth hurts, Mr. President. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments of Senator Airola]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u48	Senator Airola, if you want to intervene, sign up to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u49	[[Senator Airola's comments.]] Stop. Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). I would also like to ask the Minister whether he had the time to analyse the disaster that occurred after -2006, thanks to the managements of the left-wing juntas of the city of Turin and the mayors that followed. He could teach this government something, without taking away anything from the ability he has to look in the mirror and perhaps to please himself. Millions of euros spent on works that at the end of the event have turned into disused building skeletons: I quote the Pragelato trampoline, which cost 34 million euros and is now unused and abandoned; the bob track of Cesana Pariol, cost 110 million euros and abandoned; the Olympic village, cost 140 million euros and partly abandoned; the freestyle track of Salice d'Ulzio, cost 9 million euros and eliminated. I could go on for a long time in the list, but I stop for the shame that assaults me and all the Piedmontese. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Minister, it is necessary to devote a moment of your precious time to reading what Bruno Leoni Institute has written, which in a very detailed study carried out in 2012, has resulted in the dry loss of Turin 2006 - of post-lympic management, not of the event - in 800 million euros. But you, by how you act and by how you are legalizing the Government, continue to think that the Olympics 2026 and the ATP tournament 2021-2025 are the point of arrival, without understanding that the Olympics and every great event are instead the starting point of an important redevelopment of the territories, of an important welcome and above all of the ability to develop your country. The lack of vision of the Government - I say this clearly - is understood by tabulas from reading the legislative document and specifically to article 3-a, where it is planned to set up a committee called Forum for the sustainability of the Olympic and Paralympic heritage. But why should you set up a forum when post-Olympic activity has to be the project of the organizing committee? Isn't it that we want to put friends in there for the future management of something that we don't know how it's gonna end? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Unfortunately, the government, as is now evident in too many cases, not being able to deal with and solve problems, works by entrusting its tasks to committees, forums, task forces, which lead to decisions as always unclear and absurd, producing bureaucracy and adding confusion and disorientation. See today the phase 2 of the management of the covid-19: what a shame! People don't know how to move, when to move and what to do. The winter Olympics last about ten days, but they must serve throughout Italy for the following decades. For this great opportunity we must thank the vision, the enthusiasm and the extraordinary work of the governors Attilio Fontana and Luca Zaia, of the then undersecretary to the sport Giancarlo Giorgetti and of the then vice-premier Matteo Salvini, who defended with the nails and the teeth this project, and that, in the light of the emergencies that we are living today, is even more strategic for the infrastructural revival not only of the North, but of the whole Italy. The games, in fact, will take place precisely in the Regions, as has been said previously, in which the contagion has become more widespread and, after the emergency phase, the works and works planned for the Olympics 2026 will be spurred to the restart of the economy and will constitute a flywheel of exceptional importance for the productive rebirth of the territories directly concerned, but above all of the whole of Italy. Finally you, the Government that was against the great works, get to our historic positions and also decide to make great public investments, great sports infrastructure. That is why we believe that a number of fundamental issues should also be resolved. Can we see the Milan Cortina project for the next decade? How will our young Italians be involved in the organizing committee? How will the basic sport be involved, of which even today, in these documents, there is only one miserable agenda? Will they be used almost exclusively foreign skills for the management of the organization of the event as has happened in the past or will they give preferential lanes to the Italian professionalism? How will Made in Italy be protected during the event, being now consolidated over time that 98 percent of the sponsors of these events are foreign multinationals? We must give space to Italian products and our Italianity. We now come to the ATP Finals 2021-2025, which will take place in Turin and which so much know of the prize of consolation. The regret remains, President, although it is a prestigious event, for the fact that Turin could have been the third partner of excellence in the organization of the 2026 Winter Olympic Games. In this sense, not only the city of Turin, but the whole of Piedmont has certainly lost a great opportunity to relaunch and develop. To date, for this event ATP 2021-2025 still lacks the plan of government promotion and the local government does not respond to the demands of the citizens. I understand, for example - and I quote this because it remains a concrete fact - that a beautiful project has been presented for the installation of a London-style panoramic wheel to be positioned in front of the venue of the event in Turin, at zero cost for the city. Unfortunately, having had no answers, the entrepreneur will present the project in Milan and will no longer present it in Turin. Fortunately - I say this in this House - the three Regions involved in the project of winter games and of the ATP 2021-2025 are driving center-right and with leghistic traction, with a great rooting on the territory. In Piedmont, thanks to the great work carried out by the Junta chaired by Governor Cirio and the Councillor for Sport Ricca, it was possible to involve the territory starting with projects of territorial marketing and valorization of the tourist and food and wine peculiarities. In conclusion, what I ask of you and the Government is to highlight in detail the post-lympic project of the ATP Finals, because in all the documentation provided nothing can be deduced except the intention to constitute this blessed post-Olympic forum. The organization of a large event can respond to the most diverse motivations, but it should not be assumed that it produces only benefits. If you keep looking at your garden to plant small political flags instead of opening up to the opportunities that the country offers, reconstruction will never happen. It's not with the no that you govern. No to the Olympic Games in Turin, no to Rome, no to support measures for tourism, no to flat tax, no to fiscal peace and still no to vouchers. The only yes is to the sanatorium for illegal immigrants, who do not understand why you continue to offer us, while there are millions of unemployed Italians waiting for a professional placement, which also means and above all professional achievement. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Vitali]] We know that faster!, higher!, stronger!It is the Olympic motto that in these days takes on all its actuality and its true meaning. This is what we hope for the future: to be stronger to finally start again in normality and, let us say, with a strong and capable Government. I say this to the President of the Council, to the members of the Government, to the Ministers and to the Sub-secretaries: you must have well in mind, in the head and in the heart, at every moment, not your seats, but the good of the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u51	Mr President, Minister, fellow Senators, the Forza Italia Group voted in favour of the decree at our examination in the Commission and will vote in favour, as Mr Paroli has already said before me, even today in this House. Our party, as everyone knows, is always in favour of the organization of major public events, in particular major sporting events such as the Olympics and the Winter Paralympics and the ATP tennis finals. The Winter Olympics will take place in 2026, as it is known and as they have already reported in many, while the finals ATP will take place in Turin between 2021 and 2025, precisely in Regions that in these months are suffering more than others for the emergency covid that has hit Italy more than other countries. Those regions have suffered more than others and perhaps more than others have an opportunity to relaunch the tourist and infrastructural economy. They are regions that, perhaps, also need them from the psychological point of view, given the suffering of these months. Looking at the sporting initiatives, we are pleased to see how, starting from the opposition of the city of Turin, which was just remembered by the colleague of the League, at the event of the Winter Olympics, we have, all in all, arrived, at least with the event related to the tennis finals, to overcome the prejudice that was already born with the no to the TAV and that has continued elsewhere. It was an almost ideological prejudice to the realization of major sporting events to which, of course, is connected the realization of great works and great infrastructures. Checking how a party like Movimento 5 Stars has changed its almost ideological approach to these issues and events is a cause for satisfaction for us; it means that, obviously, you can also change and that perhaps the responsibility of government has put you in front of an approach different from what you had in the past and which seems partially modified in recent times. It seems obvious to me that events like these enhance the territory. We are also pleased to have verified how the organizers of the Winter Olympics in Milan Cortina d'Ampezzo have been able to organize themselves in such a way that more territories can benefit from a great economic return, the realization of works and infrastructures that we need and the redevelopment of existing ones. I am referring, at least with regard to the Olympic Games and the Winter Paralympics 2026 in Milan Cortina of three regions involved, so we are talking not only about Lombardy, as my colleague Paroli has always rightly mentioned before me, but also about Veneto. We have the real capital of Italian winter sports, Cortina d'Ampezzo, which is a place of extraordinary natural beauty, but which is also absolutely ready to receive opportunities and opportunities, such as that of the Winter Olympics. I would like to remind you that in 1956 Cortina was the theatre of Winter Olympics, among other things with the success of some great skiers and some great Italian winter sportsmen. In addition to these two regions, we remember that in Trentino, in the Val di Fiemme, there will be many activities related to winter sports, especially Nordic ones. This organization is connected, as it is right that it is, also to the tennis event, that, as those who are passionate about tennis know well, after the four tournaments of the so-called Grande Slam, is the fifth tournament in importance and that will take place for five years in a row of the city of Turin, which will therefore be the scene of an international sporting event much followed throughout the Planet. It is evident that sporting initiatives like this collect not only the recognition and visibility for our country by sports enthusiasts, but also an extraordinary return, for the possibility that these places will have to be able to realize works and to be able to restructure others and, above all, for the tourist attraction that these territories can represent as a result of the organization of the event: in fact, they will have the possibility to receive an extraordinary audience of visitors, not only virtual, and possibly, in the future, not only during the course of these sporting initiatives, but also later. This exceptional quadrangolo, as I said, involves territories that are certainly already ready to realize the works. As other fellow senators have rightly pointed out before me, the regions are already ready to organise these events and it is essential, I believe, that this should be done in the best possible way. We are ready, Italy is ready. This is another opportunity to carry on our brand, an extraordinary brand. This is an opportunity that we obviously cannot miss. I would like to conclude by highlighting one aspect contained in this measure, which of course can only stimulate my particular attention. Article 3 of the Decree-Law, in fact, deals with the issue of infrastructure. In fact it is previewed the constitution of the society Infrastructures Milan Cortina 2020-2026 SpA. We can only welcome, as I mentioned earlier, the ideological reverse of the Movimento 5 Stars on their historical adversity, a sort of ideological prejudice towards the realization of great sporting events and great works. I believe that this is a step forward to address, also for the future, the theme of the revival of the economy of the whole country, obviously through the realization of infrastructures and great works: to push on the realization of new infrastructures, obviously not only in the four Regions involved by these sporting events, it seems absolutely fundamental, indeed necessary for the economic future of the country. I take this opportunity to launch an idea that I intend to achieve in the near future with my colleagues: there is the need, in my opinion, no longer procrastinable, to repeal in full the current code of public contracts and contracts and the related legislative decree of 18 April 2016, n. 50. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The public contracts and procurement sector accounts for around 17% of European GDP; in Italy, in 2018 alone, the value of public contracts exceeded EUR 140 billion, but this sector, as you know, is characterised by excessive regulation and red tape. The repeal of these rules will allow the procedures to be simplified, with the consequent sub-position of the procedures for the award of contracts and concession, regardless of their economic value, to the European directives in the field. The model bridge of Genoa - as some have already mentioned before me - must be valid for all future public contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, I therefore believe that these two sporting and cultural events must certainly be supported, and now even more so to mark the restart of our economy, after the phase of detention desired by this pandemic. Let us not forget that without infrastructure our economy will not be able to restart. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u52	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the decree we are debating today consists of a group of names on the organisation of the Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games Milano Cortina 2026, rules on the organisation of the tennis tournament, final ATP Torino 2021-2025, rules on the prohibition of parasitic advertising, as well as rules on coordination between the State, Regions and Autonomous Provinces in the organisation of the sporting events in question. It is a complicated moment; we live the most difficult days in the republican history of this country. Talking about sports, Olympics, Paralympics, tennis can seem out of place, unsuitable and even useless. However, I believe, on the contrary, that discussing this measure means redesigning the future of our country. Governing means administering, it means curing the present and planning the future. And the future of Italy also passes through the world of sport, which today has been put to the test. At the heart of a healthy country is the sport culture, understood as a founding value through which the person becomes physically active, autonomous, responsible and better citizen. Let's think of the games of ancient Greece, which were held at the Olympics (hence the name of the Olympics), which involved during the course of the execution a sacred truce, so there was the suspension of any political and military conflict. Therefore sport, regardless of any controversy, must only overcome differences, of colour and profession, and make us feel like a single people. These events will represent a valuable opportunity to relaunch, an economic and social flywheel for our country, especially in the territories most involved by the emergency Covid. This decree aims to identify a discipline aimed at achieving and promoting events whose economic and environmental benefits may continue over time on the territories. These events, in fact, if well managed, will be able to offer us and leave as a legacy of the avant-garde infrastructures, modern and equipped areas, but above all - it is fair to say - usable by all citizens. The Forum for Sustainability and the Durable Olympic Heritage of the Milano Cortina Games 2026 is born. The Forum is set up with the task of protecting the Olympic heritage and promoting initiatives to evaluate the long-term use of the infrastructures created for games, and precisely the continuation of these benefits, also with the needs of sport and motor practice by disabled people and above all by the need to break down architectural barriers. I cannot help but think about the development of mountain areas by intensifying the links with mountain areas. Let us not forget that in the Venetian mountain the storm Vaia has left important scars and it will take years for nature to return to sew the wounds to the woods and villages of the Dolomites. Sport, which is a lifestyle in the mountains, will therefore be a flywheel, an extraordinary opportunity to give impetus and new visions to one of the World Heritage Sites that also UNESCO has recognized us. We must also remember that this decree-law establishes the Milan Cortina 2026 Joint Olympic Council with functions of general direction on the implementation of the programme for the realization of games: a highly collegiate body, consisting of 15 members, whose representatives are representatives of the International and National Olympic Committees, paralympics as well as the institutions represented by the delegates of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers-Office for Sport, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the representatives of the Lombardy and Veneto Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, as well as the Municipalities of Milan and Cortina d'Ampezzo. This Council will ensure a comparison between the various institutions involved, with a view to achieving the ambitious objectives set. The events will have to be carried out in compliance with all the appropriate measures to prevent any Covid risks, so that also the ways in which they will be carried out can be borrowed for other events so that they can be carried out in full safety. What we are facing is a challenge, which - I am convinced - our country will succeed in winning. We need courage and strength, which this country has shown to have in times of difficulty. Today, abandoning easy exploitations, with this decree-law we have the duty and the opportunity to assert with strength and energy that returning to normality is possible. We'll make it; Italy will make it. It's about our future, it's about the future of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u54	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u55	Mr President, I would just like to say a few words to express my sincere thanks. First of all, I thank the Government, in the person of Minister Spadafora, the colleagues of all political groups because - although with different accents and with some criticality - we have all had the opportunity to express an opinion on this measure that, as I said in the report, I consider very important precisely at this moment of crisis and emergency, because it gives a hope; it is a sort of ransom for our country. I also thank all the national sport, the president of CONI Malagò, all the regional and local institutions and all those who will work to organize these important sporting events to the best.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u56	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u57	Mr President, I too would like to thank you. I have listened very carefully to this morning's debate, so I have several comments with me that have been made. I would particularly like to thank the rapporteur and all the members of the Education Commission and all the other Commissions who contributed to this measure. Of course, I thank all the majority forces and, for their cooperation and willingness, also the opposition forces. It was not an easy job to connect with all sports institutions and local authorities, but it certainly represents a light to the future after this period so complex that the country is living. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u58	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. Ladies and gentlemen, the Presidency, in accordance with what was decided during the examination in the referee, declares that amendment 5.5, as it is not relevant to the subject of the decree-law in question, is not feasible, pursuant to Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. Having to examine the amendments, I would ask the senators present in the first and second-order forums to activate the system so that when we arrive at the time of the vote, we will all be ready. I ask the parliamentary assistants to assist the senators in this operation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u59	If we all agree, I could proceed more quickly and give an opinion on all the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u60	Let's do this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u61	SBROLLINI, rapporteur. I am against the amendments to all the articles. As far as the agenda is concerned, I am in favour of the agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In Article 2, there are no agendas. Do you confirm my opposition to the amendments to Article 2? SBROLLINI, rapporteur. Yes, ma'am, I confirm. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the agenda for Mr G3.100. SBROLLINI, rapporteur. Wait a minute, because I have another file. PRESIDENT. - The debate is We all have to use the same files, because if you use the external ones, it's a disaster. SBROLLINI, rapporteur. As regards Article 3, the G3.100 agenda is adopted as a recommendation and I am in favour of it with a rewording. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Accepted as a recommendation and reformulated? SBROLLINI, rapporteur. Yes, can I read the rewording?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u62	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u64	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, since we have already discussed this in the Commission yesterday, the rapporteur will recall that both you and the Government (which she can confirm) have removed the recommendation that the opinion should be in favour of, of course with the rewording that the rapporteur will present. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I was a little surprised, too. I think it's more consistent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u65	I therefore read the rewording: "to assess the possibility of submitting, under national and Community legislation, to the Strategic Environmental Assessment the entire programme of works, activities and provisions that will be prepared or aimed at the implementation of the Olympic Games (even indirectly, using even only partially powers, procedures and/or funding) ". I am in favour of the G3.101 agenda, provided that the second commitment is made. Let's move on to the next...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u66	Senator, you must use the file that others have in this House, otherwise we are not here.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u67	SBROLLINI, rapporteur. I know, but I'm gonna find another one. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're on page 8 of the distribution file. SBROLLINI, rapporteur. I am in favour of amendment G3.102. Mr President, before we continue to express our views, I would ask you to suspend the sitting briefly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u68	The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.05 p.m. and resumed at 12:18 p.m.) I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u69	Mr President, I would first like to apologise to you, colleagues and colleagues. I now have the right file. Would you like me to take up the views from the outset?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u70	Let's make a complete résumé starting from Article 1. You had voted against the amendments to Article 1 and a favourable opinion on the G1100 agenda, and you had also voted against all the amendments to Article 2 and Article 3. On the agenda, Mr G3.100 then gave a favourable opinion conditional on the adoption of a rewording. Senator De Petris, do you accept this reformulation?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u71	Mr President, just now, the rapporteur has proposed the rewording of the first commitment of the mechanism. If the rapporteur wants to tell me what further reformulation might be, otherwise the agenda will be fine as I have written it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u72	Do we have a written text of the rewording that we can send to Senator De Petris so that she can express her views on the rapporteur's proposal?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u75	SBROLLINI, rapporteur. If you think, Mr President, I can give you a reading of the proposal for redrafting the G3.100 agenda: It commits the Government to assess the possibility of submitting, in accordance with national and Community legislation, to strategic environmental assessment the entire programme of works, activities and provisions that will be prepared or aimed at the implementation of the Olympic Games (even indirectly, using even only partially powers, procedures and/or financing) In the second paragraph, the device is then reworded as follows: It shall monitor compliance with environmental and landscape legislation where measures to simplify and accelerate action are introduced. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator De Petris, do you therefore accept the rewording of the agenda? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Yes, Mr. President. SBROLLINI, rapporteur. The opinion was then in favour of the G3 101 agenda, provided that the second paragraph of the proposal and the first and third paragraphs were deleted as follows: With regard to the first paragraph, the Government undertakes to assess whether it is appropriate to provide that, on an annual basis and at the end of the term of office, the company and/or the commissioners send to the Chambers, for transmission to the relevant parliamentary committees, to the President of the Council of Ministers, to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, to the Minister for Sport and to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, a report on the activities carried out, together with the accounting of the expenditure incurred. With regard to the third paragraph, the following rewording is proposed: PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We will then check whether the reformulation proposal will be accepted. SBROLLINI, rapporteur. As I said earlier, the opinion is in favour of the G3 102 agenda, as well as the G3.103 agenda. The opinion is also in favour of the G3104 agenda, if it is reworded as follows: It commits the Government to consider the possibility of considering, even in one of the next measures where the conditions are met, measures to simplify and accelerate the procedures for approving the projects and to entrust the interventions aimed at ensuring the timely implementation of the interventions themselves. The G3.105 agenda is accepted as a recommendation, provided that it is reworded as follows: The Government is obliged to take into account in the interministerial decrees also the projects already approved by the territorial authorities concerned, where the conditions are met; to assess the opportunity to predict that, at the end of the Winter Olympics Milan Cortina 2020-2026 and the final ATP tennis of Turin 2021-2025, the works realized and of exclusively local importance remain acquired to the assets of the Regions or other local authorities territorially competent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u76	I take as good as she sends me. I would like to stress a concern about the rewording of an agenda to be adopted as a recommendation: the agenda is an act of direction; the recommendation, in the hierarchy of sources, is even less than an agenda. If you confirm that, I'll take it as one and transmit it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u77	I am therefore in favour of the G3106 agenda and I am against Amendment 3.0.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u78	Amendment 3.0.2 has been turned into an agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u79	I don't know.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u80	So I was asked.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u83	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). President. - We call for the amendment to be voted on as such.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u84	In this case, the rapporteur's opinion is opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u85	President. - I am against all the amendments to Rule 5. I am also opposed to amendment 7.1 and to the G7100 agenda. I am therefore against all the amendments referred to in Articles 9, 10 and 15.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u86	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u87	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u90	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak briefly on this amendment, which responds to a very precise point of view. In the amendments we have tabled to the measure we have tried to introduce a series of amendments which go in a specific direction: to try to eliminate the vulnus that we have identified within the measure and which in fact makes it completely distant from the main representatives of the world of sport. I am referring in particular to the representatives of basic sports associations. Well, we have seen that there are no direct expressions of the world of sport in the joint Olympic Council in Milan Cortina, so we have tabled an amendment to make it right. We therefore called for the inclusion in the Olympic Council of an exponent representing the world of basic sports associationism, obviously on the basis of what would then have been the formulations that the Minister would have considered appropriate in order to achieve this inclusion in the correct form. We strongly believe in the need to re-establish the balance between the measure and the direct representation of the world of sport.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u91	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 1.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u92	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u94	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am only speaking to explain the meaning of this deleterious amendment. It is clear that, together with the previous articles, we have proposed the modification of the joint Olympic Council; consequently, the deletion of paragraph 3 of Article 1 becomes automatic, so it is essentially a technical matter. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u95	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). There is a problem with the registration of the votes of the central sector forums. Are we there or are we not? Give me a nod. Soon our technicians will resolve this delay in the sum of the votes of the stands and the hemicycle and we will have the result in real time. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1,100 will not be put to the vote. We now come to the examination of the amendments referred to in Article 2, which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). There is a problem in recording the votes of the second-order central forum. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u98	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment 2.2 is based on the same ratio as the previous amendments, on which we have tried to draw the attention of the Government to the need to build a more direct link with basic sports associations. Especially in this phase of emergency, which is experiencing a particular suffering within the sports amateurism and the management of sports facilities, we thought and thought it useful to go to codify within the measure a measure that gave the effective possibility to soothe this suffering - although obviously manifested in times more distant than the current ones - and that in any case could somehow reward a world that is suffering now and that is not said to arrive healthy at the date of the Olympics. This possibility within the measure is not codified. It is true that the president of the CONI Malagò during the audition has manifested this availability and the same managing director of the Milan Cortina foundation has renewed the same availability, but to date we are faced with the availability of principle that however are not codified within the provision. We have therefore tried to include within this decree-law the possibility that management profits have a well-defined destination, which is that of basic sport.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u99	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.2, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 2.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u102	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, this is one of the last amendments that we have tabled, through which we have tried to change the wording and it is linked to the ratio of the previous amendments, adding to the possibility of representing a part of the world of basic sport and of bringing to it the profits of events, the possibility that, also from the point of view of employment, all the people who will have to be taken on by the organizing committee can also be taken on account of the presence of preferential titles relating to the origin of the world of sport. It is an important step that we believe is right and proper because it is essential that all those who give their daily availability for the provision of services in the field of sport can, where the work turns from voluntary to professional, take advantage of this circumstance.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u103	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.3, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The first part in the registration of the vote is very fast; the second part reminds a little 'the use of the bullet for the summing effect. The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.4 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator De Petris, Senator D'Arienzo, do you accept the proposed rewordings for the agendas G3.100, G3.101 and G3.104? DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Yes, Mr. President. D'ARIENZO (PD). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G3,100 (text 2), G3,101 (text 2), G3,102, G3,103 and G3,104 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. On agenda G3.105 there is a proposal for rewording, otherwise there is the willingness of the Government to accept it as a recommendation. I call on the proposers to comment on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u104	Mr President, I am only speaking to leave a point of order to our practice. It seems reasonable to interpret the proposal for a rewording if we formally hold the agenda for the vote; on the other hand, I imagine that, since there is a willingness to accept it as a recommendation, the agenda remains as it was presented by the proposers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u105	That's what I've been trying to figure out for half an hour. Rewording is therefore accepted. Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G3.105 (text 2) and G3.106 will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.1, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u106	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u107	You have the right to do so. Give the senator a microphone.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u108	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. In fact, it is a little difficult to intervene from the stands. Mr President, Amendment 3.0.2 talks about speeding up infrastructure investment for the Olympics. Like several colleagues who spoke earlier on the point, we believe that it is absolutely strategic that works so important for the development of the entire country, not only for the areas of the North, can start as soon as possible and can be realized for such an important event. It would obviously not be additional resources, but they are already present and, as the amendment points out, we could draw on the fund referred to in paragraph 14 of Article 1 of the Budget Act for 2020. This would actually allow for progress, economic growth throughout the country and the sustainability of the works related to the Olympics 2026, from an environmental, economic and social point of view. We will, of course, vote in favour of the amendment and I ask the House to welcome it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u109	Senator Rivolta, you were the first senator to intervene from the stands and we had the comfort that it works. [[Applause]] Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.0.2 tabled by Senator Rivolta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. Let us move on to Amendment 5.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 5.1, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the vote on Amendment 5.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u112	MOLES (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would just like to draw attention to this amendment and also to the following one, because they tend to correct a serious piece of nonsense in the text: paragraph 6 provides that all managers, managers and employees of the Organizing Committee will pay taxes only on 30% of their salary for seven years. We believe that this is an incomprehensible favourable exemption and we hope that this House will carefully reflect on the vote to be taken on this amendment. I think it might also be a good signal to heal this incomprehensible and absurd exemption of favor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u113	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.2, tabled by Senator Moles. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.3 tabled by Senator Moles. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 5.4, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 5.5 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 5.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.6, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to Amendment 5.7, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5.7 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendment and the agenda relating to Article 7 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 7.1 tabled by Senator Iannone. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the G7100 agenda will not be put to the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 9.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 9.0.1, tabled by Senator Barbaro and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendments to Article 10 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u114	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u115	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u116	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 10.1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u118	You have the right to do so. You can't hear it. Colleagues, anyone who needs to talk has a place to do it. Probably the microphone doesn't start because the senator isn't where he talked before.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u119	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 10.2.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u120	We shall therefore proceed to the examination of the amendment to Article 15 of the Decree-Law, which is intended to be presented and on which the rapporteur and the representative of the Government have already given their opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u121	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u122	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u123	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment No 15.1 and turn it into an agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u124	Mr President, the agenda is accepted, if reworded as follows: it commits the Government to assess the appropriateness of introducing, in compliance with current legislation and, where the conditions are met, appropriate measures to encourage the involvement of the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano in the procedures relating to infrastructure works identified pursuant to Article 1, paragraphs 18 and 20, of Law No 160, 27 December 2019, falling within their respective territories.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u125	Senator Steger, do you accept the reformulation? STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Yes, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask the rapporteur to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u126	Mr President, my opinion is in line with that of the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u127	Having been accepted by the Government, the G15.1 agenda will not be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u128	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u130	Durnwalder (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, as has been pointed out in other speeches, it may seem strange today that Parliament is adopting a measure such as this. It is important to do so, because it reminds us that there is a tomorrow, in which the virus will be defeated by the vaccine and you can finally return to the life of always and also because a strong message must be sent to the tourism sector that is on its knees today, but that wants and must return as soon as possible to normality. In Südtirol, in Anterselva, but also in Trentino, in Baselga di Pinè and Tesero, we will have the pleasure of hosting several races. Our territory will thus be able to provide its consolidated experience in the organisation of winter sports events, starting with the many professionals who work in the sports field, but also with the extraordinary network of volunteers, who have always been the added value for the success of our events. There is little to do about the measure. It is very important that the local institutions will be the protagonists of this process, working closely with the Olympic Committee. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that the success of this candidacy is the result of a good page of collaboration between the various institutional levels. If we want, it is yet another chance to confirm that, when there is a team spirit among the institutions, important goals of all kinds can be achieved. (Followed by Mr Durnwalder) It is a message of great topicality in these hours and these days and it is above all proof that Italy has all the energy and resources to overcome this difficult and complicated phase of its history. Starting to work at the Olympics will help us to do so. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the measure. [[Senator Steger's applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u131	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u132	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u133	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank you, the Minister, the Government, colleagues and colleagues. This measure - we have repeated it several times - comes at a very difficult and dramatic time for our country. It seems almost paradoxical to talk about these issues, but instead they are important, precisely because - as we said before - we talk about the future, we talk about hope, we talk above all about investments not only economic, but also cultural and infrastructural, we talk about the valorization of our country and the territories involved in these great sporting events. Why do I stress that? Precisely because we are faced with an emergency; when these territories and regions were designated, certainly we would never have thought that they would be upset in this tragic and dramatic way by the outbreak of Covid-19. Somehow it is a form of ransom and hope of light for these territories, which have suffered so much and are suffering so much, unfortunately even in these days. I have always believed in the great events and has always believed in my political Group, Italy Viva, especially during the Renzi Government, because we have always considered the great sporting events as an important fact of excellence and extraordinary opportunity to relaunch, as a flywheel for the economy. I would remind this House that sport is the third industrial sector in the country and that it is therefore an extraordinary flywheel. Let's just think about the infrastructure works that will be there and that will remain even after the big events. I am thinking, for example, of the benefits of the Olympic Games in Turin in 2006, those extraordinary benefits that still enjoy the city of Turin and the whole region. I am sorry to have to point out that for other major events we have missed a great opportunity. I think of the Olympic Games in Rome, which would surely have been a moment of growth and development for our capital and for the whole country. I hope that in the future there will be no more opposing opinions on major sporting events, because we are not just talking about sports, we are talking about the enhancement of cultural and social heritage, aimed at all generations, and it is certainly a way to make known another positive part of our country in the world. I also believe and strongly believe that everything that comes from these great events (the organisation, preparation, public and private investments) will also mark a revival of tourism and we know how much we need it right now. We think only of the hotel structures, the new jobs, therefore the increase of employment and not only in the territories directly concerned, the food and wine itineraries, that is, a better way to make known Italy, the regions and the cities concerned. We know, therefore, that a world is moving, that so many productive activities are moving, that the importance of basic sport is developed and is becoming even more known and that all the players and institutional players who have contributed to the writing of the dossier and to the designation of Italy by the International Olympic Committee are put on the network. This is for both the Olympics and the Paralympics Milano Cortina 2026. The same reasoning applies to the ATP Finals of Turin, which - again in this case - will bring great investments in the city and, above all, the greatest tennis players in the world, who will challenge each other from 2021 to 2025. Therefore, I believe that today this is good news, a way of showing that we believe in the strength and beauty of our territories and that we are proud to be Italian because the International Olympic Committee has chosen these Regions and cities that will give us light throughout the world. For this reason, we must do well, build modern structures, abolish architectural barriers and leave the most equipped and welcoming territories. Today we really thank all the Italian sport: the CONI, with President Malagò, the Government, the local and regional institutions and all those who believed in these nominations. In the Chamber of Deputies, this measure has been adopted almost unanimously, and I hope that it will also happen here in the Senate, perhaps by removing that almost all of it and by really approving it unanimously. Colleagues and colleagues, I believe that if politics becomes this, even when we talk about great sporting events, then it is a good policy because it chooses to have a vision, an idea and a project to relaunch our country; it really means investing in the most precious asset we have, which is the cultural and infrastructural heritage of our country. For all these reasons, Italy Viva strongly votes in favour. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u134	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u136	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, Minister, Secretary-General, we are discussing this measure at a dramatic time for our nation, when Italy and Italy live a feeling of fear for their own health, their own future and their place of work. In addition to the contagion of this bloody virus, we also live the terror of the economic contagion that will hurt Italy and the Italians very much. The figures are devastating: a loss of 10 percentage points of our gross domestic product; an unemployment that will reach peaks that our nation has probably never experienced; a desertification of our productive system (I speak to you, Minister, as an entrepreneur); an exponential increase in poverty. However, we want to be positive and remember that Britain, after the World War, also managed to emerge from a serious economic crisis thanks to the help of the Olympic Games. Thanks to God, Milan and Cortina, cities that are located in two of the regions most affected by this virus, will be able to count on the Olympics and Paralympics and this is very important. We therefore want to tell the Italians that they must not feel these events so far in time: 2026 seems very far away, while we are afraid of how we will live this 2020. We want to tell the Italians that these events start today, because we will have to start immediately to organize them, because they will make important infrastructures (I think especially of the railway network), so they will be a great flywheel for the economy, with the creation of thousands of jobs and an important economic impact. We try to be positive sometimes in these absolutely dramatic moments. The Olympics, however, can not only be considered from an economic point of view, however important it is, but we must also see them from an emotional point of view, because we will be even more proud of being Italian, we will have even more passion and pride of belonging, we will have even more desire to see our Tricolor and listen to our national anthem when our sportsmen - as we hope - will be on the highest step of the podium. I would therefore like to return to that moment of great enthusiasm of that June, when we all had a feeling of pride, belonging and trust, and remember, not to return to the mistakes of the past and without wanting to recriminate, that even at that time there were great divisions in the Government and you, Minister, will remember them: a part of this Government was also part of the previous one, in which there were different visions, one thought in one way, another in the other. But you were good, because you managed to find the synthesis: you have put together the political system with the territorial system and the sports system and all together, Minister, we have brought home an important result and that perhaps today is more important than we all thought. Minister, we humans don't learn from the past. We human beings, Minister, know that we never win alone; alone - you will know - we do not win in love, we do not win in the family or in work: and how can you think that in politics, in these dramatic moments, today you can win alone? Let us look to the past, but not to recriminate; because we are patriots, we are not deserters: we of Brothers of Italy know that we are fighting a war and we would like to participate, because we are used to putting our face, to wearing the shirt of the national, that of blue color and not of the color of our party. Then I ask you: why didn't you learn from this experience that only the team can win, Minister? Why do you want to go on alone today and come to this House today and ask the question of trust about important measures? That is not the case, Minister; it will not win the national team of our nation, it will not be able to win and you cannot win on your own. Returning to the important decree-law in question, we must also remember how the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the ATP Finals behaved: there was some prejudice and Italy had to gain its credibility. Today we must remember this and also bear in mind that we must all simply organize these great sporting events to the fullest, Minister. We agree and, as you have seen, Brothers of Italy as always, in a spirit of collaboration, has tabled improvements amendments and we thank the whole Government for having wanted to accept those three agendas that we believe can be improvement of the measure under discussion, so now let us all work together to organize these events as best we can. The foundation of private law, which we consider to be a right instrument, is good, but it must be used in the right way, as transparent as possible; the recruitment of staff must be done in a transparent manner; in tenders there must be transparency, because here too, Minister, there can be prejudice or - worse - the fear of a vice, the violation of laws. If we look back, Minister, we know that money has sometimes been spent in this nation in an intransparent way, but here too we look forward and try not to fall into the mistakes of the past. Today Brothers of Italy will therefore vote in favour of the decree in question because, as I said before, we believe that it is important for Italy as never before. Above all, we will vote in favour of it by reminding you, Minister, that the Olympic Games won Italy and not a party: always remember it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u137	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u138	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u139	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to address the Minister while waiting for him to finish his speech with Senator Zanda. I do not say this controversially, but to delay, so as to allow the exchange in progress. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would ask Mr Zanda to leave the benches of the government. Please, Senator Laforgia. LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have listened to this morning's debate, as we have done in many, and you will also have noticed that it has been abundantly crossed by a rhetorical element: I do not necessarily say it with a negative meaning, anything else, because, with what our country has been through for the last two months and that I hope we can leave gradually, indeed, I would say quickly behind, we naturally want to cling to any brand of hope or glimmer of negligible happiness, paraphrasing a booklet that many of us have read. So the very idea of an event, although placed far away in time, because 2026 is a time not so close, pushes us to create an expectation and therefore an element of confidence that at this moment becomes very precious. However, Minister, we would make a serious mistake to resume the debate on an important issue such as the one on a major event, such as the Olympic Games, as if we were to resume the thread of an interrupted debate, as if nothing had happened in the last two months and as if we were not instead to be charged - this is my opinion - with the ambition to include within this debate, and therefore also with the measures we adopt, an element of ambition, that is to redesign a new world, as someone would say in order to add a more poetic element. I would say more prosaically that we need, not already a return to normality - someone said that normality was the problem - but rather to build the conditions of a better and more just society. I tell you all this because, just to indicate one, we should take advantage of exactly what our country has gone through to get out of a discussion that has very much concerned the public and political debate about the great events and that has divided into typhoseries of which we probably no longer need: I am referring to the division between those who have always thought of the great events as the thaumaturgic solution in order to restart the processes of economic and social development, without whether or not but, almost with an uncritical approach, and who on the other side, instead, has always imagined that, around the great events, inevitably creates almost physiologically and naturally a opaque dynamic, made of perhaps a welding between uncontrollable interests. Here, if we want to bring a lesson into the new world in which we are entering, this must be exactly the following: let's get out of this discussion and try to understand, instead, how to take advantage of the construction of an important passage like the one with which we are measuring ourselves, namely the Olympic and Paralympic Games of Milan Cortina 2026 as a great opportunity for development. Minister, to do this, however, we need to broaden our eyes and, alongside the considerations that have to do closely with the sporting event, we who are public decision-makers - often define us with this bad expression, but in the end it is so because we make decisions - have the responsibility of broadening this view and controlling certain aspects that must be put at the centre of an overall vision of the public decision-maker and, therefore, of the policy that must be endowed with an element of ambition and the construction of a better society. Without this mechanism we risk setting up appointments that produce effects other than those we want to produce. I make a small list, but obviously I say trivial things in their truthfulness. The first is, for example, the valorization of the real estate that you have in occasion of events of this kind, which is an important and positive point because the overall valorization of the real estate of a city, of a metropolitan area or of all the territories that will host the event is, however, an element of enrichment. But we also need to think about one point: there are no trickle-down mechanisms, as the English would call them, and that is, dripping effect, so the simple fact of injecting resources and building events produces benefits that are distributed equally. This is not the case because, in view of an overall valorization of the real estate and everything that concerns the real estate market - I live in Milan and, therefore, perhaps I measure more than others living in other contexts with this element - there is as a consequence and as a great risk that to increase by some degree the size of inhospitality of a city, which becomes more repugnant. Very trivially, if rents and rents increase, the event does not become an opportunity for overall development, but contains the risk of its opposite. Then I think about the question of infrastructure because - we have lived it also with Expo - we must facilitate the arrival in the locations that host the event, but we must not forget the fact that, within this framework, there are problems that pre-exist to the event, that manifest themselves also during the event and that, if not controlled, at the end of the event become even more dramatic in the consideration of the fields of contrast between what you have done respect, for example, to a mobility to get people to those places and what you have not done compared to the great theme of commuters. I know this is a matter a little bit between the state and the regions, but it is a big issue. The whole question of sustainable infrastructure, what is actually left and how at the end of the event is an issue that we cannot fail to take into account. Similarly there is the talk of safety at work. On this there is a tradition of protocols, of relationship between the state, local institutions, local authorities, trade unions, but perhaps it is not enough even in the light of the emergency health, which we will not know when it will be brought to a definitive conclusion. There is, however, a major issue that concerns workers. Minister, we have also experienced this on the occasion of the appointment of the Universal Exhibition about work and it has to do with the dignity of the workers because, if the great events stand for a part with what is hypocritically called voluntary work, when in reality it is unpaid work, we are not there at all. We're not building that more just world we should be working on. They are all variables that cannot but be under the control of those who, for example, like you, will have and have the great responsibility to exercise a function of direction, which is not only related to the sporting event itself, but has to do with a wider look. I say this because some changes - and I start to conclude by trying to recover a few seconds lost at the beginning - have also been made thanks to the collaboration of different institutional levels. I am thinking, for example, also of the precious work that Palazzo Marino has done, that is, the administration of the City of Milan in imagining some definitions of the decree-law that go in the right direction. I am thinking of the question of the foundation as a private institution, which is a very sensitive issue - it was mentioned by my colleague in the previous speech - but which can have a positive effect in terms of the speed of the execution of the event. Just as it is right - and there would be no doubt that it was not so - that the whole machine which concerns the management of infrastructure remains public and public management. As well as the theme - which may seem secondary, but in reality is not in the logic of a healthy market - of so-called parasitic advertising. These are all important issues, but there can be no track on which the sporting event travels, and on which you may have an important responsibility, and then there is everything else. There is the development of the city; there is the more or less unfair distribution of those resources and benefits; there is the after event and there is what will come when all the lights have gone down. No, either there is a sharing of responsibility between the different actors and also sports actors and sports clubs feel this investment in relation to the dynamics of development, or we can also cling to these glimpses of hope, but they will not produce the effects that we think we can and must produce in terms of positive development. Minister, I wish you well. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u140	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u141	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u142	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been important since the first few days and moments, because it is important to note that, compared to the past, the candidatures of Milan and Cortina have not been the initiative of Italy. With the new rules, it was in fact the International Olympic Committee (IOC) that asked and identified which possible locations for the Winter Olympics these locations. This is above all because of the beauty, but I also believe for the characteristics of these two places, in particular, but also of their regions and of the whole country, which are well suited to the Olympic goals. So there is a social value that these two localities have expressed well from the beginning and that, at the time when the choice was confirmed, went to the benefit and recognition of the whole of Italy. The Games will certainly allow the enhancement and promotion of the entire Italian Alpine arch as an integrated experience both from the sporting and the tourist-cultural point of view. But in order to be fully appreciated in the world the elements that I have tried to emphasize, there is a need for a commitment that has a vision of the future - as Mr Laus also said - and a strong injection of the future that takes shape from the games themselves. I am not just referring to the difficult situation at the moment. I refer, for example, to the punctual forecasts present within the various Olympic projects, thus to the permanent reusability of existing installations and those that will be carried out, to the minimization of soil consumption and environmental pollution and to the fundamental perennial vocation of innovations such as transport, green mobility and logistics. It is therefore a mixture, as I said before, which lends itself well to the social value of the Olympics. In view of this candidacy, it was clear from the outset that there were these factors. The very fact, for example, that they are not realized who knows how many plants, but in particular two - I refer to the ice palace of Milan and then to the Olympic Village of Milan, both reusable also later (the ice palace for obvious reasons, but also the Olympic Village will host a university residence at the service of the universities of the Lombard city) - makes it clear that they identify these two works the least possible consumption of soil and the permanent vocation of the plants to be realized. As Senator Rampi, who focused on eco-sustainability, well said, we are faced with two acts that go in that direction. There is no doubt, therefore, that the games that will take place in our country, in addition to respecting this, will definitely have an occupational relapse, I have seen that the colleague who preceded me with the cares he wanted to highlight. It should not be underestimated, then, also the immaterial value which is the promotion of winter sports in a territory normally evoked in this direction, so as Senator Messina said a moment ago, is a clear sign of trust in the world of sport of course world, but in the specific case the national one. From this point of view, the Government has done well - not this, but the previous one - to support Italy's candidacy. If we read the letter with which the Government proposed and supported the candidacy of Milan Cortina, we find some cultural principles that I want to highlight here as an identifying feature of our country: the protection and respect of human rights, the respect of international norms and agreements, as well as the adoption of the necessary measures in the matter of anti-doping, three elements with which the Government has intended to support the candidacy. Not only that, the Winter Olympics of 2026 are also an investment for the country and for the territories that will host them and to do this obviously there is need of important investments and above all of a local economic project that then gives the opportunity to take advantage of this wonderful opportunity. These are things that have already happened in part in the previous Olympics and with Expo 2015. Looking at the things to do and above all the objectives to be achieved, certainly the decree-law puts at the centre a series of activities that go in that direction, following a very clear approach, and in particular lays the foundations for a framework of overall governance: as Senator Rampi said before, contrary to what was supported by those who preceded me, it was a moment of national unity, never as at this time, on this occasion, there was total unity of the institutions. Among other things, I also highlight the rules and governance mechanisms, which are adequate and transparent, the definition of sustainability requirements for strategic environmental assessments, the definition of the governing framework of activities aimed at the safety of games and of course the safety of all those who participate in them. These challenging goals will give Italy the opportunity to replicate sporting and organizational successes of various kinds that already in time obviously our Country has faced, last with the Olympics of Turin 2006. The tight times, unfortunately, do not allow to deepen all aspects of the decree. I would like to focus on one particular point, which I was amazed by: the Forum for the Sustainability of the Olympic and Paralympic Heritage. It is an innovation compared to the past, but it well states the recommendations of the Olympic Agenda 2020 and all the principles set out in the Olympic Charter. This Forum has the task of protecting the Olympic and Paralympic heritage, so it will also subsequently promote initiatives for the long-term use of infrastructures that will be implemented for games in order to allow the continuation of social, economic and environmental benefits first and foremost for the locations that will host them, but also for the whole of Italy. Compared to the things I mentioned, what higher and more lasting value could be expressed from the stage of the candidacy, from the support of the Government and from the acceptance of the projects that will take place from here to 2026 for the realization of the Olympic Games and, subsequently, through the Forum? Not only is this Olympics, as has been said. The city of Turin, so dear to my colleague Laus, will host this very important, especially for fans like myself, tennis tournament that, as you know, involves only the best, those who have supported the four trials of the Grand Slam, so let's talk about the eight strongest tennis players in the world. It is an opportunity of lustre, an unmissable, historic opportunity for our country, considering the fact that since 1970 it has never been hosted by Italy but has turned important cities and great lustre, last of which London but I also remember Sydney, Shanghai and New York, so the city of Turin is given the same opportunity. Even at this particular moment, for the finals ATP the decree at our examination traces the fundamental lines of the commitment to be supported, so I am confident, considering the history of the city of Turin during the 2006 Winter Olympics, which can fully represent Italy in the best way. So, as Mrs Messina said just now, through this measure, through this choice, we give strength and vitality to our community. In conclusion, let us all commit ourselves to the Olympic Games, unitedly - let us all vote together today in favour of the same measure - so that at the Giuseppe Meazza Stadium where, as you know, the opening ceremony will take place, and at the Verona Arena, where the closure will take place, there is the possibility on the part of the world to appreciate the skills and professionalism of Italy. That is why the Democratic Party's vote in the Senate will be in favour. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u143	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u145	BARBARO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention. We arrived with a little tiredness at the end of the debate on this measure which perhaps deserved more attention for a number of reasons which I will try to develop later in my reasoning. Let us start from a premise: it is quite easy to talk about a measure which is what we are going to transform definitively into law because on it, beyond the broad political convergence that has occurred, I believe there is little more to add in the field of positive characteristics to the basis of the importance of the measure itself. It is enough to make the list in some ways obvious and partly obvious, sometimes on the borders with rhetoric and within which the typical considerations that are made in the world of sport must also be included. Sporting is an activity that, from the social point of view, produces great returns, as well as from the educational and economic point of view. In fact, on this occasion, we have seen how sport can become a flywheel, the word that has been most evoked in this House, in the Commission, in the House and every time we have talked about the measure in our examination. It seems to be a technical measure, without great political importance, on which, as I said earlier, all political forces unanimously voted in favour, at least in the House, but I believe that today, in the Senate, it will be the same. Therefore, the registration of a transversal majority in all the forces of Parliament transforms a technical measure into an important political measure, because in any case a general convergence, transversal, unanimous, I dare say, inevitably becomes a purely political fact. And so off to the quotes, the most common: the departure of the country, fly for the economy, for infrastructure, for employment, for tourism, for the territory. It has been emphasized several times in this House - and I too did so just now - the unity of intent that characterised this measure. It is a unit of intent to which we would have, however, wanted to give a different outlet than the considerations that we have made during the discussion, in particular in the Commission, extending it also to important representatives of the sporting institutions, specifically to the president of the CONI, that I have not understood if technically it will automatically become president of the Olympic council (on the point I expect some clarification) and to the managing director of the society Infrastructures Milan Cortina 2020-2026 SpA. We would have expected here to be able to link this measure to issues that are now more topical than ever, which concern the issues of the world of sport. This is what we have noted and which makes it much more difficult for us to try to achieve full membership than the issues we are debating. We have tried to establish a direct connection with the great absentee of the debate. There has been talk of the world of sport, its social importance, the values it transmits, educational values, values that we find daily within any sporting context. However, there has been no real link, at least in terms of coding interconnections, between this measure and the real, structural aspects of the world of sport. It is not enough, in fact, to include in the organizing committees representatives of the CONI and the federations that deal with the events; it is important to try to establish a form of connection with those who, from morning to evening, provide, in addition, given the lack of services provided by the State, everything that happens in the field of sports. It is good to remember - and I address it to the Minister, who has repeatedly referred, during his speeches, especially on Facebook, to the importance of basic sport - that if there is a skeleton, a spinal column of the basic sport, this is mainly due to sports volunteering, to the great network of amateur sports associations that represent the real heritage of the sport of this country. Beware that this is a consideration that rarely jumps in the eyes of the non-experts, because everything that happens within the most advanced countries from the sport point of view passes through the school, the universities, the help of the local authorities; this does not happen in Italy, because the bodies to which I referred before are resoundingly absent with regard to sports policies. We simply tried to put order with respect to this necessity, we tried to heal this vulnus. I must acknowledge, Minister, that I have somewhat reversed the way in which we approach the world of sport. For seventy years now, almost daily, we have seen that the various politicians who had to do with the dynamics of the world of sport always started the same logic: the sport most visible, almost always football, and the champions (which, I repeat, are important to be able to fill our palaces and sports facilities). Almost never, on the other hand, has been talked about the dynamics at the base of the work of those who, from morning to evening, are busy so that that productive activity, which then comes to express, through a basic selection, great champions, can receive more attention, beyond the institutional ballets. Minister, yesterday during an interview you referred to the need to try to give 360-degree answers to the world of sport, and above all you said a sentence that impressed me particularly, saying that in this House, but perhaps also in the House, there are very few politicians who would like to be in your place. I'm telling you, I wouldn't want to be in your place, because they're pulling it by your jacket all over the place. But I believe that this willingness, beyond the Facebook lines, which are very much followed and which I too often and willingly follow, and this different cultural conception of the world of sport should be expressed within the common and most appropriate seat of Parliament, so that Parliament could also take note of the possibility of reversing a trend that is historically the one that has condemned Italian sport to live alone and only in the light of competitive dynamics. So, what more occasion, Minister, than the Olympic Games? The greatest sporting event to try to restore dignity to the basic movement of Italian sport, especially in a moment of particular suffering. That is the point on which we would like to stress everything that has not convinced us, including the We would have included, according to his directives and according to ways to be identified by the Ministry, a representative within the Olympic Council, we would have codified with absolute certainty the possibility of allocating some of the funds that should come from a profit of the organizing Committee to the basic sports activities, which are - be careful - sporting activities that are suffering particularly today and that is not said to arrive at that deadline in the same extent as today they are structured within the Italian sport. You, Minister, have given willingness to understand the suffering of this world, but above all your difficulties in getting out of the ordinary. There is, however, one fact on which I am forced to reflect: you are a minister without a wallet and your office refers to a fair number of people, but it is an office that does not have the dignity of a Ministry, because it directly affixes to the competences of the Presidency of the Council. From this point of view too, it would be important for you to work hard to try to give more body and more structure to a Ministry that has all the cards in order to aspire to direct the country's life in this important matter. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate, obviously mixing an alternation of moods, that we modify the favorable vote of the League for what concerns the measure itself, which sees us absolutely convinced of the need to give operational outlets to this important success that has reached our country. We do this with a little sadness, because we are thinking not only of all the Italians who are suffering, but in particular of this matter that could have been an occasion of distinction and appreciation, or at least of a message of hope. Let us look with sadness at this part of the world of sport that is experiencing with great suffering the inconveniences caused by the emergency. Finally, the alternation of moods can only reappear the hope, because the Olympics are a hope; they are for the country, they are for all sportsmen and we hope that they can truly become the tow for rebirth. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u146	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u147	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u148	MOLES (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the speeches that preceded me, like that of Mr Barbaro, have already highlighted how events, such as the Milan Cortina Olympics and the ATP final in Turin, are an opportunity that fortunately all people of common sense see in a positive and constructive spirit. The decree-law that will be converted into law today provides a series of norms that will regulate an event that the organizers, already at the time of the candidacy, have considered to be of fundamental importance for the prestige of Italian sport and for the infrastructural relaunch of the North and the entire Country. Undoubtedly, however, discussing this measure today still gives a strange feeling. The 2026, which seems so far away, is actually much closer than what may appear and will certainly become a very important moment, a test bench for all of Italy. And perhaps it is a game of destiny, then, that the regions and territories that have and will have a fundamental role in this very important event are just among the most affected by the pandemic. Precisely because this is a hugely prestigious event, one can only regret the fact that the city of Turin could have been a third partner of excellence in the organization of the Olympic Winter Games of 2026. Turin and Piedmont have unfortunately lost a great opportunity for recovery and development. It is for this reason that today the Italian Olympic project for 2026, as well as the ATP of Turin, take on even more importance, because it will not only be an opportunity to demonstrate - if still needed - the validity of Italy's choice as an Olympic venue, but, after the emergency phase, all that has been achieved, the works, the works planned for our Olympic Games, and not only, they will only be a flywheel of exceptional importance for the productive rebirth of both the territories directly concerned and the entire country. In essence, this great opportunity must be able to be a symbol of a country that knows how to start again, that knows how to start again. From this point of view, the Olympic Games certainly become a huge opportunity to create new jobs, as has been said, but above all to give a signal of strength, of restart, of national cohesion. We cannot forget, in fact, that in this very serious health and economic emergency, the entire sports world is suffering a great deal, and among the first worlds that will change - and that have already changed - there is that of sport, the amateur world that is at the base. The basic activity of all sports, which represents the magna pars of our sports movement, is now devastated. In giving our full support to this provision it must be remembered that it was built in a unified manner both in the Chamber and here in the Senate, and this is, for once, finally symbol of the team game, which was important at the time of the assignment of the games but that was not entirely taken for granted. I hope that the next Winter Olympics can also be not only an opportunity for revival, but also for national cohesion; not of particular interest, but with the sole interest of keeping the flag of Italy's strength and authority high. With regard to the procedure of the decree-law in the Commission, we would have liked a greater willingness of the majority to adopt some of our common sense amendments. In view of the importance of the measure - as I said earlier when the amendments were being presented - it is regrettable that we have to point out a great tone in the text: a striking anomaly that leaves a dark shadow on such an important measure. It is the rule that will allow all managers, executives and employees of the Organizing Committee to pay taxes only on 30% of their salary for seven years. This is an incomprehensible favor exemption, which, among other things, downloads a private cost to public funds of around EUR 50 million. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] We have tabled two amendments to heal, eliminating this privilege, which seems even more absurd and distorted at a time like what we are going through, but the amendments, of course, have been rejected. If a small part of the shot has been corrected in the House, here in the Senate, unfortunately, the majority and the Government have confirmed this exemption. We would have expected an act of common sense, reasonableness and good will with the deletion of this rule; it would have been a good signal to the country and to those who suffer. Unfortunately, our proposals have been rejected. Why these benefits, Minister? Why this injustice? Why this favor for some, who will pay much less taxes than all Italian citizens? Perhaps it would have been more appropriate and dignified to give advantages such as these to all those categories that continue to fight against the pandemic, as well as - as we have requested with our amendments - to the federations and sports associations, especially amateur associations, which are also deeply crisised by the serious economic situation at present. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I therefore conclude, Mr President, Minister, with a request and a wish: we hope that the Government will immediately follow the measure that we will approve today a strong and significant initiative of support for the whole world of sports associations, represented by that wonderful fabric of amateur sports societies and associations. Let's start again from the Olympic Games, let's start again after the disaster, let's also start again with the Olympic Games because an Olympiad also serves to reflect our organizational capabilities, the beauties of our country, the possibility of creating infrastructures that otherwise would never have been realized; let's also share with the Olympic Games so that this national unity can allow the many territories and the many peculiarities of our country to return to the world spotlight. Surely on our part there will be all the vigilance, closeness and support for this to happen. For these reasons I announce the strong support of the Forza Italia-UDC Group. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u149	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u150	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u151	PIRRO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italian candidacy for the Winter Olympics in 2026 was an important step in the summer-autumn 2018 and it was the end of a difficult path. Milan had begun to talk about its own possible interest in September 2017, a year before the official submission of the nominations. A willingness demonstrated a few months later, in March 2018, also by the mayor of Turin, Chiara Appandino. Finally, the President of the Veneto Region, Luca Zaia, announced the candidacy of the UNESCO Dolomites complex, with Cortina as leader. In the following months the first contrasts were immediately highlighted, in particular Turin opposed the hypothesis of tandem candidacy with Milan, contrary to what indicated by the CONI. For this reason, too, the three applications were presented individually at the beginning. A situation then completely overturned by the President of the CONI, Giovanni Malagò, who began to anticipate a united candidacy of the cities, without leader. The idea was to bring Lausanne the initials Italia 2026. However, the three-way project never really took off because Turin did not want and did not deserve a secondary role, strong of the success achieved in the 2006 edition and of the infrastructures present, just as said in this Chamber, while the mayor of the capital of Lombardy continued to insist that Milan should be the priority name. For these reasons, the three-way project went down and the two-way ticket came into being and on October 1, 2018, the governors of Lombardy and Veneto made official the nomination that led to the final choice of our two cities Milan and Cortina. Turin, however, was perfectly aware of its merits, its potentiality and capacity, and worked to get the leading role it deserves on the international stage and thanks to the great work of the Giunta Appandino, in this decree the city Sabauda, my city, reappears next to the other two. The capital of Piedmont [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It will be in fact the fifteenth different seat of the ATP Finals since 1970, the first Italian city to host this planetary event. According to some, the five years of ATP Finals, such as attractiveness and economic fallout, are worth more than a winter Olympiad. So, in the end, the commitment of our cities and the government is as if they were bringing in our country the fallout of two winter Olympics and we are extremely satisfied with this. The Olympic Games are generally a great opportunity, if you are able to manage them wisely, without leaving huge debts to those who arrive after, as often happens. According to economic studies, the fallout for the territory is around 5 billion until 2026. The Italian candidacy was based on a low cost project, as required by the lines of the International Olympic Committee, strongly centered on the structures already existing and usable or that can be retrained and on the legacy of the Olympic Games. The organization of the Games must have this fundamental point: no cathedrals in the desert, but structures that have a post-Olympic sustainability. Objectives of the choices will have to be: respect for the environment, sustainability of the transports and integration. This is why the Forum for Sustainability and the Lasting Olympic Heritage of the Milan Cortina Games 2026, an innovative body set up at the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, with the task of protecting the Olympic heritage and promoting initiatives to enhance the long-term use of the infrastructure created for the Games, as well as the continued social, economic and environmental benefits on the territories, also with reference to the needs of sport and motor practice by disabled people and the removal of architectural barriers, in line with the principles set out in the Olympic Charter and the recommendations of the Olympic Agenda 2020. We must make the most of this opportunity, especially in the light of the time we are living. We will offer the world a showcase on our country: 14 Olympic sites between Milan, Valtellina, Cortina and Val di Fiemme, fabulous places, as recognized by the International Olympic Committee, stages of great suggestion, amazing alpine landscapes, but also an unparalleled historical and cultural heritage. Just think of the closing ceremony that will take place at the Arena of Verona, the Roman amphitheatre temple of music. Usually the IOC tends to discourage a solution that sees the opening in one place and the closing in another; but in this case it has accepted the proposal of opening in San Siro and closing in the Arena, because they will be the right frame to an Olympiad that will make the shuttle between the mountain snows and the facilities of the city. The same opportunity will bring the best out of Turin, which will host the ATP Finals, the most important annual professional tennis tournament in which they participate, after having supported the four Grand Slam trials, the best eight tennis players in the single and double ATP standings. The event was established - as already mentioned - in 1970 and the ATP finals took place, among other things, in New York, Sidney, Shanghai and, from 2009 to 2020, in London. After ten years, however, London has not found the agreement to extend its mandate and the choice has fallen on Turin, which will take charge, thanks to the support of the Government, of the total prize pool of 78 million euros for the five years after 2020. Turin has been chosen for its beauty, its security and its cultural and political solidity. Again, this is an extraordinary success: the ATP Finals are a prestigious sporting event of great appeal and represent one of the most anticipated tennis proposals in the world. Turin will once again be the protagonist in the world of sport thanks to an event of worldwide appeal. Thanks to the enhancement of the heritage of sports facilities that the city already owns will have great visibility, while avoiding significant impacts on public funds and on the territory and ensuring at the same time investments on innovation. It will be a great international event, which will bring more sport and more work to the city; the estimated five-year induced is over 500 million euros. These great events, however, must not only have a purpose of economic revival, but must stimulate all of us to bring sport culture back to the centre of attention, understood as a fundamental value through which the person becomes physically active and autonomous subject, with a greater attention to his own health, and in a certain sense also a better citizen, because accustomed to the respect of the rules that every sport discipline carries with it. The legacy that will have to leave these great manifestations will have to be above all social. They will have to stimulate us to increase the share of sports practice of the youngest population, bringing it as close as possible to 100 percent. These large windows will also have to be a vehicle for our country, to regain the credibility put to the test in the initial part of the pandemic that we are going through. We must be able to respond and react, to be credible and to achieve results. I am sure we will, because in the past the sports system, the political system and the territorial system have shown that they are capable of doing so. With this measure we are laying the foundations to realize a revival of image that contributes to an economic revival of the country. If you can mobilize the best energies and the best personalities of our country, involving the whole tourist chain and hospitality and transport management, creating offers that go beyond the places of the event, to obviously extend to the whole country, then we will achieve a great result. At this time - and I conclude - so difficult for the country, it seems almost paradoxical to find us here discussing Olympics and tennis finals. But it is also the way to show the country that we are starting again, that we will be able to resume our lives and our activities and that, after such a difficult period, we will return to rejoice together and to get excited for sporting victories. It is therefore with those emotions in mind that anyone in this House who has practiced sports well knows, who announces the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Collina.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u152	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). CIRINNA' (PD). Ma'am, my device doesn't turn on! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 227 Senators voting 226 Favorables 225 Absent 1]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u153	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u155	Coal (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, even in times of emergency, coronavirus is still dying of work. It is of one dead and two wounded, one of which in serious condition, the balance of the violent explosion occurred yesterday afternoon around 4 pm in the factory Adler Plastic in Ottaviano, the flagship of the companies of the territory where I was elected and Italian excellence in the world, belonging to the colossus of the component industry led by Paolo Scudieri. The victim, 55-year-old Vincenzo Lanza, was extracted from the ruins of the shed together with his two colleagues, one of whom was subjected to surgery at the civilian hospital in Nola and is in serious condition. The violent explosion was felt several kilometers away, as well as visible was the cloud of black smoke that rose in the clear sky in the Vesuvius afternoon. It is not conceivable that the workplace should become a place where people risk their lives. In expressing my condolences to the victim's family and other injured colleagues, to the Scudieri family, to the mayor, to the administration and citizens of Ottaviano, I renew my commitment to encourage Parliament to face the social emergency of white deaths. Ensuring safety and life in the workplace must be the commitment of all, quickly, effectively and across the board. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind this House that a number of proposals have been put forward for the establishment of a Commission of Inquiry, signed by me and all my colleagues in the Forza Italia Group. Security is a fundamental right and I hope that the Senate can also make an indispensable contribution to improving existing legislation. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u156	Thank you, Senator Carbone. The subject is of great importance and that is why I gave you the floor. As announced, I suspend the session until 4 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 14.17 p.m. and resumed at 16.01 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u157	The next item is: Information by the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism on initiatives under the responsibility of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism to counter the Covid-19. I remember that live television with Rai is in progress. I call the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u158	Mr President, I don't think I'm violating the rules if I take off the mask, since I'm alone on government benches. I am very pleased with this opportunity to sum up the situation and above all to collect the comments, indications and proposals that will come from the parliamentary debate on the themes of culture and tourism, linked to the dramatic emergency of the Covid-19 that we are experiencing. I would like to start, even if the arguments are absolutely cross-referenced, on the tourism side, reminding me - and I am in some pain to do so - that, until a few months ago, the work we were setting on tourism, in line with what happened in previous years, including the implementation of the strategic plan 2017-2022 - of course it is still in force - was to govern growth, indeed to govern an impetuous growth. The number of international tourists in the world was growing by a few million every month, with tourists from countries not having outgoing tourism until a few years earlier. As is well known, in all studies and surveys the first desired half of travel in the world is Italy. Therefore, the approach of the plan was intended to govern the impetuous growth of international tourism, starting with some strategies - on which I will then return - of decongestant presences and multiplication of tourists, so as not to have some places overcrowded with tourists and others, equally beautiful but less known worldwide, without international tourists. Paradoxically, from this enormous growth and from its perspectives the Italian tourism sector has come to its knees. Several times, since the beginning of the crisis, in the context of debates in the Commissions or within the same Government, I have tried to emphasize that, if the emergency Covid-19 has touched - as is evident - all social and economic activities, it has affected in a more particular and structural way - and I fear for a longer period than other sectors that will be able to return more quickly or in any case to return to normality - tourism. It is quite clear that for a certain period of time - we hope it will be as short as possible, but we know that in any case it will not be so short - international tourism will not move again globally, and people's movements themselves will be slowed down by reasons of prudence even when there are no more rules to respect and therefore the impact will be directed. I want to explain here - also because the information, as a rule, does not give space to the reply and I imagine that some groups will raise the problem, as happened on other occasions here in the Senate - the reason why the state of crisis in the tourism sector has not been declared. I have already tried to explain it: here we are far beyond the state of crisis of a single sector. The state of emergency in the country began in January and will end in July. The state of crisis is a tool that is used for a sector in crisis in the ordinaryity of the rest of the system and gives the possibility to use some tools, which - in truth - are not many. In this case, everything, from legislation to economic measures, to changing and breaking European rules, has gone far beyond that, in the sense that there is a state of severe crisis in all sectors, particularly in the field of tourism. As a result, the declaration of the state of crisis would only have a symbolic effect, which would have led the other sectors to demand the same symbolic gesture. It seems to me that in this case businesses, tourism operators and citizens are more interested in measures than in symbols. We have already begun, from the first measures which you know perfectly well and which I take only in the titles, to introduce certain measures which apply to all sectors and which have finally been extended to a number of sectors such as tourism which did not have social protection or shock absorbers. I am referring to the extension of the measures of social shock absorbers to all categories of tourism; the measure of EUR 600 extended to tourism workers, including part of seasonal workers; and we are working to ensure that in the so-called 55 billion decree it is also possible to include those categories of seasonal workers who have not been included in the first measures, even if this is not easy. Who did the season last year is identifiable, while it is not easy to identify those who did not work last year but would have worked this year as seasonal if there had not been the crisis. That is why we are trying to identify a mechanism that gives as much certainty as possible, in order to extend this type of protection to those people as well. The instruments for liquidity or payment delays are available; we have introduced vouchers to prevent travel agencies and tour operators from getting crushed between the customer's need to obtain the refund of the skipped reservation for reasons of force majeure and the non-refund by service providers to travel agencies and tour operators. The possibility of giving a 12-month voucher, which we will propose to extend to 18 months in the next measure, has avoided at least some of the immediate liquidity problems. In addition to these measures, which are already in force, we are working on other new ones which will be contained in the decree called April, even if we want to approve it by this week of May in the Council of Ministers, and which we now call Decree 55 billion, because we are always looking for names and at least that is a firm point. Well, in Decree 55 billion will be contained some specific measures relating to tourism and other new ones concerning companies. Allow me not to point out the figures not only for a question of fairness, but also because we are in full negotiation - many of you have experience of government and know it - and therefore in the middle of the phase of discussions between the individual Ministries and the Ministry of Economy or between the individual Ministries. Among the various measures - I have already said about the extension of seasonal protection - we are trying to identify the instrument to meet all those who paid rents in the months when the activities were closed for the ordinances of the President of the Council of Ministers' decrees. In particular, this is a measure that must be absolutely extended to hotels that have not been able to benefit from the first recognition of tax credit for the rent since they were not closed by order but remained open to offer a service, and certainly not to accommodate customers who were not there; in general, it must be extended to all categories, even to the smallest business activities related to the tourism sector. A second general intervention for the sector is dedicated to companies that have suffered a decrease in turnover compared to the same period last year. It should be - I use conditional caution - a loss for companies under a certain size of turnover and, therefore, for almost all companies in the tourism sector. With the growth of turnover, the instruments of intervention and support will change. In addition to these measures that have a positive impact in a sector where they were previously non-existent - I am referring in particular to social shock absorbers - we are thinking about an instrument that helps families, people and tourism businesses at the same time, namely a tax credit holiday, or vacation bonuses - as has been called - requested by several political forces - that can be spent by a family - the amount of credit is linked to the number of members and, therefore, takes into account the dependent children, single parent families and couples - by 2020, in accommodation facilities. We are talking about a significant figure that could cover the needs of several million families with a medium-low income - i.e. under a certain ceiling, which we are quantifying according to the ISEE instrument - to be used at accommodation facilities. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u159	Colleagues, there's too much buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u160	Mr FRANCESCHINI, Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. The tax credit can be used by 31 December 2020 at the accommodation facilities by giving a share to the structure itself, which will be able to recover it immediately in the following month - as you know, companies pay VAT monthly, so they can immediately recover the sum - while the remaining 20 percent will be borne by the credit holder, who will be able to use it the following year as a tax credit. This means supporting families and encouraging them to take vacations and, at the same time, providing businesses with liquidity. It is evident, in fact, that, if a person goes to a hotel or accommodation, then, during the rest of the day, he will also go to the restaurant or a bathing establishment, or whatever he will do what is normally done on vacation. We are also thinking about other measures, one of which, in particular, is very important. As you know, social space measures will inevitably push bars and restaurants to severely limit the number of tables inside them, and therefore, we are thinking about a rule that makes them exempt from paying the public land occupation tax. This measure will have a time limit of six months and, in order to speed up its entry into force, it will ensure that at this stage the normally required state authorisations are not necessary. I am thinking in particular of my ministry and superintendence. These are temporary and reversible measures to make it easier to put the tables outside that cannot be kept inside. I have been asked several times when you can go on vacation. In this regard, it is not only politics that decides. Politics must listen - as I have done in recent months and as governments around the world have done - to the indications of the Scientific Technical Committee, which must take into account the prevention of contagion and avoid the return of epidemiological risk. I believe that the Scientific Technical Committee, which I have asked, will provide a response within this week on all the activities that my Ministry is dealing with, so as to have those requirements that allow companies to reorganise and be able to reopen. I am thinking, for example, of bathing establishments which, beyond what the actual date of reopening will be, need to reorganise their activities. So, by this week, the requirements that I shall immediately report to Parliament will be provided; requirements that will allow, on the basis of the progress of epidemiological data, to determine when it will be possible to allocate, sector by sector, and this will be as soon as possible. If you ask me if this summer they will take the holidays, I say yes, this summer they will take the holidays; they will be different, we will have to observe the measures that are prescribed for all the activities: the distancing, in some cases the masks and sanitization, all measures that we now know very well. It's gonna be different holidays, but it can be done. On this front too, we are urging the European Union. A few days ago the meeting (on videoconference, of course) of the Ministers of Tourism was held and I met several of my colleagues. I spoke to the Croatian Minister this morning and tomorrow I will speak to the European Commissioner who has the delegation to tourism. We want European rules, common health security requirements that allow free movement between European countries, avoiding the risk of bilateral agreements between one country and another, which would create conditions of disloyalty within the European Union. The common rules allow that, if Jesolo is visited by a tourist from Bavaria and one from Lombardy, both have observed the same security protocol and can therefore move freely within the European Union. It is an important action and the whole Government is committed to this. I believe that this is one of the European management tests for an epidemic which, as we have seen, knows very little about borders. So you will have the holidays and you will have Italian holidays. I think this is an opportunity: if tourists from the rest of the world will hardly come to Italy this year, it is equally evident that there will be few, compared to the millions of previous years, Italian tourists who will go on holiday around the world. We are therefore working on a project to promote and enhance Italian holidays, proximity holidays. Italy offers everything that the world offers and very often at higher levels of excellence. Paradoxically, the strategy on which we were working in the strategic plan of tourism for other reasons (i.e. decongestant the places too crowded with tourists, such as Fontana di Trevi, Ponte Vecchio in Florence, Piazza San Marco), acting not with measures of prohibition, but with a multiplication of tourist attractors that Italy can offer endless, distributed on the territory (art cities, natural beauties, villages, paths, bike paths, historical trains, tourism related to wellness, health, sea, mountain, an infinite territory of opportunity), that strategy returns useful at a time when the gatherings must be avoided for other reasons. Therefore the multiplication of Italian places and potentiality must be absolutely valued. This is indeed an opportunity to enhance that very beautiful definition of Italy, which more than anything else explains what our country is, that is, a widespread museum, through tools of promotion and distribution of wealth. Therefore Italian holidays, which also show how strong is the link between culture and tourism, which we wanted to enhance by bringing them back within the same Ministry. In fact, when I talk about a topic it is difficult - at least for me - to understand if I am speaking as a Minister of Tourism or as Minister of Culture; if visitors grow up in museums this is important for culture, but also for tourism and I could go on forever. It is clear that in Italy the indissoluble link does not only concern the theme of cultural tourism; the cultural offer of the country makes the other types of tourism stronger, more competitive and unattainable. Only in Italy you can go to the sea and have a few kilometers or hundreds of meters away archaeological, monumental or artistic beauties unparalleled in the world. The link between culture and tourism is therefore enhanced especially in this scheme. It is clear, however, that the other sector of my ministry, that is, culture, has also been dramatically affected and I believe, in some areas, with a not fast exit. What are the places where people are together? They are together in a cinema, in a theatre, in a concert; when we talk about people who are together (now we ordinarily use the word "assembling"), there are more problems than in other sectors. That is why we need special measures and we have already envisaged a part of them; I will take them back even if you know them. With the same principle as before, social shock absorbers, in a sector that had no type, with the past measures have been extended not only to companies, but also to theaters and non-commercial enterprises. The delivery of the 600 euros has also impacted positively on the whole world of the show and on a myriad of temporary contractual relationships, intermittent, fragile, little protected, to which the instrument has been extended. And since much of the world of entertainment has emphasized that the limit that we had established of at least 30 working days is too high, in the next measure that limit will be lowered in order to widen as much as possible the audience of protection to all the workers of the show, with the vouchers that apply also in this field. We are working on some measures to protect, save and protect the culture sector which is what makes us strong and recognizable in the world. The first choice that has been made and that will be confirmed by a rule of the decree of 55 billion is the use of ordinary funds, that is the Single Fund for the show, plus the tax credit cinema, plus the 130 million that we have already put in the first provision for emergency measures in favor of shows and cinemas related to the emergency Covid-19; the sum of these three figures is worth around one billion, figure that is usually delivered if the theatres and film producers respect certain rules and certain parameters: the number of evenings and the number of productions. We have decided that we will erode them equally, without the obligatory respect of those parameters: 80% will be paid immediately, immediately after the approval of the decree in the Council of Ministers, so as to give breath to all these cultural institutions and to do so by not linking such aid to the number of evenings that can no longer be respected, because it is clear that they can no longer be respected for many reasons, but to do so permanently, thus guaranteeing these institutions a system of protection and public resources that become extraordinary, while they were previously ordinary. To this we have added some decrees that I have already signed, within those 130 million of emergency: 20 million for all those companies of dance, music and theatre that do not take the resources from the FUS and therefore will not have the benefits of that freezing, therefore to the weakest and the smallest; the decree of 20 million has already been signed. Then there will be a second decree that uses the resources of the private share of copyright, with a rule of law that we have already approved in the previous decrees. I have signed the decree that grants these 13 million euros, with a procedure for the application, to all the most defenseless in the field of artists, authors and musicians; all those with an income of less than 20,000 euros of income will have a direct contribution to lost funds from the State that will allow him at least to face this period that they have before them. I have just signed another decree of 5 million euros that had been urged for the traveling show (the rides and the carnivals) that are totally stationary and that had no access, except for the investments in purchasing structures (but now it is not the time to buy structures), within the FUS. Resources remain in this chapter of the emergency that will be used to make sure that no subject, no artist, no musician, even the most unknown and the most helpless, is left alone in this crossing of the desert, because unfortunately for some sectors it will be a crossing of the desert. It is easy to imagine that some sectors will be able to restart (for example, we are thinking about the restart of the museums from 18 May) and it is clear that again in this case will arrive soon the indications of the Scientific Committee and in a museum will be organized the quota of the entrances, the distances, will avoid the files and will be obligatory masks and sanitization. But when we talk about crowded places the problem becomes more complicated; in fact, while it is always complicated in the audience (I speak of closed places in this case) the distance and the entrances extended in and out to make sure that people do not meet (maybe I don't have to tell you, but the Committee will have to tell us), in other cases the problem is complicated also on the stage, because you understand that it is not easy to sing in the choir of a great Italian opera with the mask or play the orchestra or do a concert respecting the safety distances. So it is likely - and we will see this - that there is a differentiation in the measures we have asked for between large events and smaller events, between indoor events and outdoor events. For example, it seems difficult to imagine - I do not want to anticipate it - that the great concerts this summer can be done, because there is a theme that is not only related to crowding people in the same place, which can still be solved in part with the distance or with the obligation to sit even if you are outdoors, but is related to the fact that, when you are over a number of people, there is also the problem of transport, access, entrances and exits. We must ensure that the activities are re-started as far as possible. For this reason, too, I believe, as a general measure, that the interventions currently taken for all types of companies or activities, which have been closed with orders and DMPCs, can gradually be reduced for those who start again with their activity, but must continue for those sectors which, by general rules, will have to remain closed for a longer time, from the point of view of both social shock absorbers and direct support from the State. This is a general criterion. Not by chance, in the next decree-law I am proposing measures for all that part of the non-public culture (concerts, big events, exhibitions, the whole chain of the book, private museums and events) so that support interventions are foreseen until they can start again and return to work. We need to be certain. That is why - as soon as the indications have come to me - I will take action to ensure that certainties are given, not only for those who will be able to leave on 18 May, but also for those who will be able to leave later or who will not be able to leave again. We need certainties especially because we are talking about businesses that need to go through this desert period. I would like to say other things but I stop because otherwise I talk too much. A tool on which we are working is the idea of a public digital platform - we are reasoning with Cassa depositi e loani; we are probing the RAI - that allows to put online for payment - I have spoken of a Netflix of Italian culture, to understand us - a platform for shows that will not be able to have the audience in the room or that they will not have enough audience in the room to have profitability. On the other hand, if you have a room of 1,000 seats, but you can take 150 for distance measures, you can't hold it in your budget. You could then expect the chance to sell tickets so that one party follows the concert rather than the prose show in the hall, and the other can buy the ticket online. It may be that this mode of integration continues even after and that then one day it will be possible to see us the Prima della Scala paying the ticket sitting in the audience, when we will be back to normal, while another person, maybe from Catania, will watch the Prima della Scala without needing to physically go to the place where the show is staged. That's to understand. We are talking about two strategic funds (one on tourism and the other on culture) with Cassa deposits and loans - it has also been called for by a very strong public debate - which allow us to have public resources and to raise private investment for those who want to support or invest in these sectors or to save some of the activities of these sectors. For example, I believe that we must be very careful - and I was also told yesterday in the Commission here in the Senate - that a hotel in crisis, but that because of its position or history it will become absolutely a producer of income once the crisis is over - is bought by foreigners or perhaps bought with funds that are not too transparent. So we are talking about a public instrument that avoids this kind of risk. Moreover, culture and tourism together make almost 20% of GDP. The first time I became Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism I said that I felt called to lead the country's most important economic ministry. Well, I still have that conviction. Here there is a great investment, which is not only for souls, for people, for the sensitivity of each of us, but also a great instrument of economic growth that we must not lose and therefore we must absolutely protect. That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. I am very pleased to hear the debate that will follow, also because I believe that there are issues that see a debate animated in the majority and as many issues in which there is a physiological confrontation between majority and opposition. I believe that in this area - as has been the case with many of the measures of the past legislature and the current one - we can try to put together ideas and positions virtuously so that culture and tourism can emerge stronger from this dramatic crisis in which they have fallen. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, and IV-PSI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u161	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism. He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u162	Mr President, Minister, I believe that the message you have given today with your words is what the Government, institutions and Parliament must convey to so many workers and to so many operators, that there is a full awareness of the importance for the country and for the economy of this sector and that there is also a full awareness of the dimension of the crisis that it is experiencing. Tourism, depending on the sectors incardinated, is worth 6% or even 13% of our economy. Accommodations bill 25 billion, travel agency services 12 billion. This sector has great value, but above all, Minister, his words have testified to the full awareness that this sector is the most affected by the pandemic and also that it will be the sector that will need the most time to recover and therefore will need more support diluted over time to be able to recover. It is clear that in a country where more than 50% of tourists are foreigners, i.e. they come from abroad, at a stage like this where it is so difficult to move, this sector will take so long to recover. Not only is it clear the great damage, but it is also clear that it will take a long time to return to normal and that this sector will recover. On the other hand, this is already the case today. The first months have already zeroed the work of an entire section; Easter holidays have failed, bridges have failed, so many foreign visits have failed. He's lost a lot already. This awareness must be translated and translated effectively into the proposals and measures that he announced and that will rightly constitute a priority part of the next economic decree. There is a concrete and fundamental commitment of the Government to help first of all the workers in the sector that they have already had, and will have even more in the coming months, access to social shock absorbers - I want to emphasize it - that did not exist before, such as the derogation cash and the support of 600 euros for the seasonal. The main theme, as the Minister has pointed out, is support for businesses and accommodation facilities, which face a long time of great difficulty, more than other economic sectors. In this direction it is important to refresh the turnover of companies and I would like to add, Minister, also start-ups, with non-funding, as has been announced. Also the tax credit for rentals of shops and accommodation facilities will help. However, the fact that we will be returning in a long time to the previous situation and that the recovery of this sector will be slower than others does not mean that it is important to invest immediately on the restart here too. It is therefore right, Minister, to say that we will go on vacation; it is right to work to create the conditions so that at least for Italians and foreigners who come here to spend their holidays this can happen safely. So well the idea of promoting holidays in Italy, but above all the choice to create a form of bonus for families with medium-low incomes that allows them to make the holidays and companies to acquire this money, transforming them immediately into liquidity. This is a moment of enormous difficulty, of an emergency that we have never faced before. I believe that the measures and policies that you have told us here represent a necessary and important commitment, a sign of the importance that the Government attaches and recognizes to this sector. We are a beautiful country, rich in culture and traditions; we can compete with any other country and the measures produced help to recover... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u163	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u164	Mr President, I am telling the truth: I had come to this information today with a great desire and passion, thinking that frankly we understood the real problem that the nation is facing. But I have to say that unfortunately we have not entered into the matter at all. Just hearing the percentages that Mr Mirabelli mentioned earlier makes me realize that you absolutely do not know the issue you are talking about. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , because you are discussing something ranging from 6 to 13 percent, from 6 to 25 billion, and you are considering two categories, including the hotel category. These are the numbers, so at least go home and remember something more than what you brought into this House. The numbers are 232 billion, 3 and a half million employed and 13 percent of GDP; This is only what is linked to the structures that directly deal with tourism. Next to this we must put the entire part of the induced; the induced is not only the travel agency, but is the electrician, the plumber, the carpenter, everything that revolves around the accommodation facilities, holiday homes, bathing establishments and so on. In this way we arrive, taken as a subtraction because I have tried to be a low star and I have taken out some categories that are also a driving force for tourism itself, to 7 million people. I remind you that in Italy there are 18 million workers and that, of these, 7 million are linked to tourism and tourism; there are 450 billion turnover, almost more than a third of gross domestic product. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] These are the real numbers, these are the things we have to base ourselves on, this is the real industry. If he closes an important company of 1,600-1,800 employees, we make tables at the Ministry of Economic Development; but, if they close 27,000 hotels in Italy, nobody cares (and move more people). That's the problem. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] There are dozens of categories: hotel, extralbergiera, commercial, public establishments and bathing establishments. As far as bathing establishments are concerned, there are orders and there is the navigation code which states, Minister, that they can open from 15 May and must close by 15 September. But we can't open on May 15th. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Have we made a provision to revoke this rule of the navigation code? No, absolutely not. There is the question of distance and we are reasoning to give them a perspective; but it is not that the bathing establishments mount with a snap of fingers. I know that you know these things, but unfortunately I realize that at this moment there is a sidereal distance between the needs of the category and what the government will put on the field. We asked for a fund of 2.5 billion: real liquidity, not additional debts. We have called for the suspension of the decree of dignity. We want vouchers, but not those for holidays: we want a total tax credit. If I go on vacation I can deduce it from this year's income, otherwise it won't help. The voucher serves for the flexibility of the job, otherwise how can I hire? I'll only have certain costs. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The criminal liability of the employer, which you wanted to approve with Article 42 of the decree-law care Italy, is an absolute folly. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] As far as social shock absorbers are concerned, we have said that we should keep people in the Social Security Fund, which is, however, a lost fund, and then send them to work and make sure that the employer pays the difference; at least we give real support to companies. As regards the state of crisis, I take note of what you said, I understand and understand it, but it would have been a signal, representing the sector one third of gross domestic product. I understand that the other sectors would have asked for it too; but where does a sector representing one third of gross domestic product in Italy find it? There aren't any more. We said that this was a unique opportunity to put in the flat tax and to charge 15% of taxes and that we should not have lost it. You said in various interviews - I'm sorry you didn't say so today - that you resolved on Bolkestein and that the measure will be included in a measure. Well, you know this is a battle of Forza Italia; on the Bolkestein issue our champion is Senator Gasparri. We joined and brought a reasoning of this kind, but the whole game of the IMU and Tari is missing. How are they going to pay for Tari, which is paid by square meters, all those companies that are closed today? This applies to bathing establishments and applies to all others. Do you know that bathing establishments, which are licensed, have to pay the IMU? This is the only country in the world where you have to pay the IMU on a state concession; it's madness. The same applies to hotels and all other activities around the trade. So we're really far away. I shall conclude by thanking the President for the extra time he has given me. There is a whole world that revolves around tourism: from amusement parks, to events, to everything that is movement of people. Tourism is a movement of people. To think that we cannot have people travelling around Europe and the world means shutting down our companies. Hotels and many other subjects are thinking of not opening. I want to say one thing, which wants to be a spur and not a further criticism (I think I've done enough already). Entrepreneurs, particularly in the tourism sector, carry deep burns on their backs. Well, the one tied to this pandemic will not be a burn, but a murder, a murder of Italian companies. I hope it will not be a preterintentional murder, but only a manslaughter for inability to decide. We hope so, and we're here. We will continue to make proposals and reason in the interests of companies, which are the only engine of economic development in the country; we do not know any others. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u165	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u166	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's information has been important because the Minister has taken into account an extended package of measures (we also talked about it yesterday at the hearing at the Industry, Trade and Tourism Commission). The package was expected because in the decrees of phase 1 - in the so-called decrees care Italy and liquidity - there were no targeted and specific interventions for this sector. Therefore, this really is an important intervention. It is also important to have said and admitted that this is one of the most in crisis sectors that we have and that, for this reason, needs more resources and specific and targeted interventions. As I have heard before, the sector and the induced involve many people: from hoteliers, restaurants, beach resorts, spa facilities, tourist guides, amusement parks, big events and fairs. This is an area that has stopped due to lack of demand. The absence of demand created a liquidity freeze and therefore it was right to intervene immediately to give liquidity and oxygen to these companies. However, the blockage of revenues, at equal costs (i.e. at fixed costs), will result in losses. In the so-called liquidity decree - I say this in anticipation of the debate to be held in the Chamber of Deputies - a rule has been laid down to suspend the effects in terms of the liquidation of companies and losses on their budgets. However, more needs to be done and, for this reason, we have tabled an amendment that covers these losses over time in order to give companies the opportunity to recover. This is a very important intervention. This is a sector that went into crisis before others due to lack of tourism from China and will come out of this crisis much later, even having lost the best period (which is the summer one and arrives until September). Therefore, Minister, we believe that this sector needs aid, funding, relief and derogations throughout 2020. There must be a massive intervention and this we have told you also on an agenda, voted by all the majority in the Senate, on the decree cure Italy, which includes a package of particularly powerful reforms that recalls some interventions already announced by you on employees, on social shock absorbers, on the renewal of Naspi and bonuses also to cover all those self-employed operators in the tourism sector that had remained excluded and especially the entrepreneurs in the tourism sector, with a bunch of fundamental tax credits. Then I think of the tax credit to restore the decrease in revenues in proportion to turnover and to compensate rents (including farm rents and leases). Good tax credits for holiday bonuses. We must of course support that little demand for summer vacation there will be. What can be done more, from this point of view, is to expect them to be countervailable - yes - but they are not in 2020. In 2020 there will be little income and, therefore, few countervailable taxes. Therefore, it will be necessary to ensure that they are countervailable in 2021 and 2022 and that they are also bankable. Yesterday, Mr Gualtieri gave a very positive response at the hearing in the Budget Committee. He told us that there will be this openness to the bankability of tax credits and this is very important to give liquidity to companies. With regard to the single property tax (IMU) and the waste tax (Tari) it is right that funds should be created to restore the municipalities because the hotel structures, especially those with imposing properties, cannot bear them; taxes should also be suspended for the whole of 2020: via tax payments, the fees on state property concessions must be suspended. It has to be a protection umbrella over the whole of 2020, so that we can already think of 2021. This is crucial because those who can use the bonus facades, those who can use ecobonus, those who can invest, restructure and fill those gaps that we knew we had to fill for some time in the sector. It's also okay the app you mentioned, but that this platform not only concerns the shows, but also the tourist offers, that gives the information necessary to know how safe that hotel, that structure or that locality, to give everyone the chance to return to Italy even by launching a huge campaign of communication on the theme "Italy travel safe." We are with you, Minister; there is much to be done, but of course it is worth it because this is a fundamental sector, not only for Italian GDP, but also for our well-being. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u167	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u168	Mr President, for the sake of clarity, I would like to say that on the beaches the League is held as a champion who has breathed the sector, namely Senator Centinario. I say this in order not to create misunderstandings. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Colleagues Senators, Minister, as I said yesterday in the Commission, I will not thank you for being here today (don't take it personally, I already told you yesterday), because we have waited nine months for you to come and talk about tourism, so I will certainly not thank you for this unacceptable delay. What is really needed is well summarized in a few words by a well-known entrepreneur of my Province: according to him (and also in my opinion) we need a partnership to the detriment of the companies, that is, the money that everyone is asking for. This is necessary and I recommend not to turn it into a charity of EUR 600-800; as I said, it really is a partnership to the detriment of companies. The state is once the good father of the family. Unfortunately, it is regrettable to note that two of the most important resources of the economy of our country and my Liguria are smacked daily by this Government: I am talking about agriculture and tourism. Mr Minister, if anything, after yesterday's hearing I have had confirmation that in my humble opinion he does not feel so comfortable with this Dicastery, particularly with the skills of tourism. If, on the one hand, the problem of agriculture for the trade unionist minister is the regularization of 600,000 illegals (a crazy and unholy idea on which we will fight), on the other hand there is its smallness. Both yesterday in the Commission and today in this House you have been reluctantly vague about what you are going to do. Moreover, if that were not enough, yesterday he had the courage to quote with emphasis two fundamental measures for the sector: the Cassa Integrazione and the decree-law liquidity. I would like to inform you about this: during the hearings, the groups concerned defined these measures without any means of the books of dreams. Minister, to solve the problems, did you think it would be enough to ask the banks for an act of love like the President-in-Office of the Council? Did you really think so? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Among other things, the associative world has asked you clearly for the declaration of the state of crisis, as indeed for other sectors, but you once again said no and reiterated it today. [[Comments from the M5S Group]] What's the matter? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's the matter? Everyone says what he wants; then you will say what you want. Talk to me, Senator. Minister, companies want to have answers from you, the owner of the Dicastery, which generates 13 percentage points of GDP, they desperately and immediately need certain guidelines that will enable them to restart safely. The question is not about when or who, because the question everyone asks is about how. In this regard too, the hearings tell us clearly what we are feeling and talk about total confusion. What are you waiting for? What are you doing? Time for the sector is not a negligible variable. Hurry up, for God's sake! When we talk about tourism, we talk about the whole sector that lives in its chain: hotels, beaches, bars, restaurants, shops in general, camping, tourist guides (Minister, don't forget the tourist guides), holiday homes, travel agencies and many others, who - believe me - have not felt at all the presence of their Minister of reference. You can say or imagine that you represent a little 'umbrella' under which you can find shelter, refreshment, initiatives and proposals maybe, but you - for heaven's sake - the umbrella keeps it closed. They said this again this morning: they feel abandoned; they do not say Ripamonti, but we were told in the hearings this morning. I repeat: abandoned! Minister, open this umbrella! Who's gonna fix these people? Give shelter to this compartment that is exposed to the weather of this apocalypse like no other. Be it manifest, launch as loud as possible a cry of alarm because tourism will be what most of all - it has already been remembered - will lose (it is expected a reduction of 80 percent this year). President Mattarella then referred several times to the collaboration and we responded "present" by proposing countless proposals and also a plan on tourism that you are aware of. I have collected many testimonies in these weeks and I bring to her that of Gerolamo (who deals with florovivaism), Edi (who has a bathing establishment), Antonio (who has a pizzeria), Marco, Fiorenzo, Carlo Maria (who has a bar), Grazia (who makes a hairdresser). ( [[Comments]] ). What's your problem? They're people, like the ones you saw on the ships. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They are people who have lost their jobs today and are not working. Something's wrong with that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They are names of real people, of many Italians as many who are not enough anymore - if anything enough - the announcements to unified networks and the direct evenings of the President of the Council, the words of the Government of the "we will do". These people need concrete actions, facts, interventions, real money and not lent. Mr President, it is truly dramatic and also worrying that this Government is making citizens pay for the total lack of ideas and a strategic plan to get out of the emergency. After all, you who represent him here, in the light of your information today, are the best and the most plastic of the testimonies: have the courage to make choices that are really useful to find a solution. Look, one of them suggests the League: go home, please! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u169	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u170	Mr Minister, Mr Malpezzi, fellow senators, I unfortunately only have two minutes, but yesterday, Minister, I think I have properly requested you. Today I would have expected from you at least a plan, not already for 2017-2022 - which is already too old - but for 2020-2025. Bring to synthesis a series of reflections; mature the so-called lateral thought of which today we really need and give an important signal to this sector. I am not snogging numbers because she is in a privileged observatory and can teach them to us, but we work together on a plan for widespread tourism, robust, resistant, ecological, digital, modern and contemporary (every adjective has its meaning and there is no time to explain it); I distinguish it carefully with reference to the receptive capacity of this country between the hotel structures (which are about 33,000) and the extra-hotel facilities (which are 134,000). They're completely different worlds. Yesterday he said that Italy is a diffused museum and, then, drops this museum spread in an industrial plan. That's what we need. Minister, I tell you to start from the villages, those 5,800 municipalities that have less than 5,000 inhabitants, where 16 percent of the cultural heritage is concentrated and which are the so-called secondary entrance doors to which you can pour - would say the economists - for the theory of dripping all those who have "swallowed" - let me pass the term - the great Italian entrance doors: Venice, Rome, Florence etc. Last two data very fast. Use the accommodation facilities and review the institutional levels of collaboration, possibly also introducing some reflections on Title V of the Constitution, because the receptive doors of these villages can become the Italian storytelling, and with this storytelling she values not only tourism defined as minor, but also the Italian creative industry, the one that is sought by an increasingly demanding audience not only at national level, but also at international level. Finally, the millennials, born between 1980 and 2000, are about 2.5 billion: look at this audience, which from here to 2025 will consist in terms of international travel. You spoke of a Netflix of music; alas I am not so convinced. Instead, think of attacking that monopoly-oligopoly that is represented by online bookings of big bigs that on the European market are worth 320 billion euros. That we must attack, with a digital experience on travel that only we Italians can do. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u171	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u172	Mr President, Minister, we are happy to see you here in the flesh; frankly, I thought you too had been streaming lately. So we are happy to have you here, because it is important to have you here today, because the cultural sector deserved information in this House. Since, unfortunately, this method and the time allowed will not allow us to deepen the need for such a complex sector, we strongly ask you to come to the Commission to give us the opportunity to make a detailed reasoning for a sector that - I repeat - deserves it and perhaps deserves a completely dedicated decree. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Clearly the photograph that gives us this emergent phase is known to us all, because the data bounce on all the newspapers and on all the media. Unfortunately, there is not enough talk about it on the television media, but in the sector - paper and online - appeals have followed on appeals from all over the world and from the whole sector of culture. Therefore, today I will not dwell on these figures - although I wrote them to myself, in fact - which are very worrying both at Italian and European level. Instead, I want to move on to the next phase, because in the Italian care measure we started taking some measures that we all knew wouldn't be enough. I have read in these days that you have met categories of workers, who have accepted the demands, for example, of intermittent live entertainment workers, that - alas - despite the efforts to heal a situation still remain, to a large extent, in a critical situation of precariousness. When we talk about workers, we clearly also talk about families: we must also get out of this stereotype, according to which it seems that those who work in the world of culture are a bohemian without a family, voted for the nights and the bags: there are people who are professional, who have studied for decades, who have acquired the highest professionalism and specializations. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, let's talk about people and lives. I saw that there was a listening: you announced measures. I hope that it will be possible to put them all into practice and that we will be able to have as much resources as possible to invest to deal with this emergency which, as has been said, has dramatically invested this sector. We'll be at your side if you let us. One of the similarities that occurs most at this stage, speaking of this epidemiological emergency, is that with the Second World War. One of the most popular analogies, with regard to the restart phase, is the one that precisely wants this historical assimilation between that phase of post-war reconstruction - war conflict and the phase that awaits us of post- epidemic reconstruction. I am not entirely convinced by this analogy, but I want to take it today to go on to talk about the phase of recovery and reconstruction, therefore a new constituent phase, but not to put my hands on the Constitutional Charter, but as a time for building the foundations of a new cultural renaissance. Just in these days Naomi Klein, who in 2007 wrote a very powerful essay in which, analyzing various facts happening in various parts of the world, in various historical periods, in the aftermath of great shocks suffered by communities as a result of natural disasters or socio-political subversions, warns us and tells us to be careful, because in the era of the coronavirus it could come back to the fore the "doctrine of the shock" or "the political strategy of using large-scale crises to move policies that systematically increase inequalities, enrich the elites and cut out anyone else." We, Minister, must clear the field of this danger, because today we find ourselves observing what is happening, as one of my colleagues said last week in an explanation of vote, sitting on the ruins of neoliberalism. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Therefore, we cannot think of rebuilding a world that is always inspired by political ones. I tell you this because I see some initiatives, some proposals, some comments and some reflections that, in my humble opinion, could open the field to this danger. We are called, as I said, to imagine a new world, to imagine something that is not there, so we are called to be a little 'artist. So I want to join her today for titles and very quickly dedicate to her this song "Imagine of Culture" that was written in May 1971 and that we retrace today. In the "Imagine of culture" our world of culture, what we imagine ourselves, must have professionals with a legal state defined and recognized, with skills valued and protected, a world in which the dominant logic is no longer that economic, mercantile and commercialization of material and immaterial patrimony, in which the value of quality and added value for the community returns forcefully in the evaluation processes and not sterile algorithmic numerical parameters; a culture spread throughout the national territory and that does not privilege only the great poles of tourist attraction; a world where culture and tourism find a harmonious coexistence in the sign of Article 9 of the Constitution. Therefore, never again historical centers of our cities of art as theme parks completely emptied during this emergency; because there is no more civil residence, they are theme parks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] And never again, Minister, the luxury of being able to see St Mark's Square over a large cruise ship. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This is sustainability. Never more blockbuster exhibitions without a scientific sense and instead much more research and study within museums, many more exhibitions with a vocation that aims to spread knowledge. Never again a system of use designed to privatise profits and socialize losses. Never again is a space in which young people's energies and skills are excluded. Let's give young people room. The Italian Youth Association for UNESCO has written a beautiful letter, Minister, moving in which it asks us for things and we must listen. Finally: never again this system of private foundations. We imagine a world in which there are no more messes due to a system of private foundations that are recognized as public interests because you know well, as happened for the lyric-symphonic foundations, the disasters that happen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would also like to stress the importance of protection, because our archaeological parks - alas - have no voice in order to make us feel their appeal. The protection must not be forgotten at this stage of emergency, because without the protection and enhancement of the professions that work in the protection we have neither valorization nor tourist attraction. I conclude with a warning which, in my opinion, contains the meaning of my speech. Minister, we are here and we are sure that everything will be fine because together we will make sure that everything is not the same as before. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u173	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u174	Mr President, Minister, I would like to put it this way: tourism is an essential sector for the whole Italian economy and culture. The numbers do not return the importance of this sector. We can imagine the development of agriculture if tourism comes to its knees. I am thinking only of wine-growing: the warehouses at the moment are full and we are waiting for the next harvest. Craftsmanship, small industry, carpenters and other sectors in this field would also have no future without tourism, as well as the retail trade. I challenge anyone to tell me that retail can survive if 10-15 percent of the turnover that is brought by tourism is already missing. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC.]] These are the facts, so in my opinion we must now work really hard, above all, as you indicated, on the opening of borders. I'd like to start from the internal borders. It is necessary that you can move between the Regions. The Italian Government, the majority, must give directions as soon as possible on this matter. Tourist companies must be able to prepare themselves but, be careful, one cannot think of a protectionist approach to tourism alone. Many areas, not only my South Tyrol, need international tourism. If the European borders are not opened, the driving companies will not reopen, they will remain firm and closed because it costs less than opening only for a small part of the clientele. So the right approach is to work in Brussels to find a European solution and, in that case, to bring all the weight of Italy into this assembly. Speaking of tourism, Italy is the most beautiful tourist destination in the world. On this front we have to measure ourselves, this is the most important challenge: certainties are needed as soon as possible. As has been said, companies cannot wait until the end of June to know whether they can open or not. Luckily, they're resuming the demands now. Our companies tell us that there are the first requests not only Italian but also from abroad, so I hope that you can go in this direction. A suggestion. Of course, I am realistic and I say that intercontinental tourism, tourism beyond the European Union, probably will not have much chance this year. However, I consider an agreement, for example, with neighbouring Switzerland, not only for our area, but also for other parts of Italy that work with Swiss customers, who we know are a very important clientele also from the point of view of spending capacity. I do not want to say so many words, but I want to get to the point, that is, what can be done with the next decree-law, which is no longer the April decree but the May decree. I had the honour of being able to present in the Senate the challenging agenda for the Government on tourism. I merely suggest four measures which I consider essential and which we cannot give up if we really want to help this sector. The first thing is the exemption from the payment of the IMU for companies in this sector, not just for this year: we must also reduce the tariffs for next year and the following year, because you will see that this crisis will accompany us for a long time and we need companies in the sector to be able to recover. The second measure is intended to support those companies in the sector operating under the lease and rental scheme, recognising a tax credit proportional to the amount of the rent. The third measure is the extension, until 31 December 2020, of all deadlines relating to the fulfilment and payment of social security contributions and premiums for compulsory insurance. The fourth intervention aims to safeguard the seasonal unemployed, who have exhausted the duration of the New Social Employment Insurance (NASPI) available to them and who have not been able to resume their activity due to the emergency. An incentive should therefore be provided to encourage the re-employment of seasonal workers in the tourism sector, recognising a contribution relief to employers. I see a great deal of difficulty in the labour market over the next two or three years, so we must do everything to ensure that unemployment does not reach numbers that we have not known for many years. I have spoken above all about the receptiveness sector so far, but I have one final comment to make on the gastronomic sector. If we want to restart and make this sector live, it is essential that we allow freedom of movement. As with the retail trade, it doesn't make sense to open up if people can't move, because they lack frequencies and companies don't get a big advantage from opening up. So you have to have the strength to move people around. As important as the technical and scientific committees are, the final decision is up to you, it is up to the government, it is up to politicians. Obviously the easiest thing is to stay at zero risk; but the zero risk in health care would mean starving. So what politics has to find is the right meter, so you have to dare even a little, of course, in safety and where you can, with meticulous and strict protocols. One could perhaps also look around Europe a little bit: there are countries that have already started this second phase. We entered the first phase, especially unfortunately, but unfortunately we are also the last ones that are coming out of it, so perhaps there are already some good practices that could be observed. I am referring to Switzerland, Germany and Austria, where we are already leaving and fortunately with encouraging figures. For example in Germany we are in the second week and the increase in factor R has not been so great, indeed: in a first week it has increased by one decimal place, to return, in the second week, to acceptable measures. I therefore hope, Minister, that the tourism package in the EUR 55 billion decree will be important and that these measures will go mainly in favour of businesses in order to be able to restart. Also the tourist card and the holiday bonus are important measures, but in the end it is necessary to provide those measures that guarantee the companies to be able to continue. My fear and concern is that too many companies will not be able to restart due to lack of liquidity and the possibility of restarting. So I believe that the government must take measures that are able to help the tourism sector to be reborn and restarted, so that with this also many other departments are able to restart. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S and L-SP-PSd'Az]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u175	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u176	Mr President, Minister, if it had been possible, using some of the means available to the Senate, I would have liked to have made an intervention with an image: the image of the penitent Magdalene of Andrea Vaccaro, a Neapolitan painter of the seventeenth century, whose painting is preserved at Palazzo Abatellis in Palermo, because that picture would have helped us, looking at the Maddalena's gaze and some objects of that painting, to reflect on what is important in the social context that we live, what attitudes we must have and how to help people bring out the best of themselves, to reason on intelligence, that is, the ability to understand. Unfortunately it was not possible to organize itself and it will be for another occasion. I therefore make an ordinary and traditional intervention. The sectors related to the artistic and cultural heritage of our country, as you yourself pointed out, have suffered enormous damage because of this pandemic. Federcultura has estimated in about 5 billion euros the losses for the missed expenses in this field from the families and they have hit all the areas of Italy, no matter how the virus has affected in the different Regions, because it has been hit also a strategic field for our economy that is precisely the tourism. The cultural sector - as estimated by the Symbola and Unioncamere Foundation (the latest data are from 2018) counts 416,080 companies, which in 2018 gave work to 1,550,000 employees. Tourism, as other colleagues have already mentioned, in our country is worth about 12% of GDP: 146 billion. Today we have thousands of sites, museums, archaeological parks, temples, castles, palaces, abbeys and churches that are closed. Only in 2018 had 8 million visitors recorded and 30.8 billion gross revenues. Also thanks to his work, Minister, and to the work of the governments he has been part of, cultural tourism in Italy in recent years has experienced a great increase: cities such as Rome, Venice, Milan, Florence and Naples have attracted more than 46 percent of the total revenues for international tourism. Today we must also think of the closures and limitations that have had to undergo cinema, theatres and art fairs. It is therefore understandable and clear to the workers in this sector, who will still suffer for a long time the consequences of this crisis resulting from the decrease not only in foreign tourist flows, but also in those resulting from internal limitations and from the difficulties of imagining a return to normality, which does not appear at all imminent. That is why, Minister, I was pleased to hear your words about the support you will want to give to the artists of our country. In the awareness that culture by its nature is certainly openness and internationality, in fact we cannot fail to register with anguish the request of many Italian artists, who ask to be considered in the programming of the theatres, welcoming - also understandable - their requests, together with those related to the needs of the star system. For them too, Minister, I believe it is necessary to build a stage 2 indicating solutions and choices that will enable us to enjoy the immense cultural heritage of which, for no reason, we can do without. The proposal from several parties ventilated of an online platform to the studio to spread at a fee concert events on the net must be considered, as you said, Minister, also for the theatres, festivals, foundations, orchestras, choirs and dance bodies, so that with adequate public support they can present audiovisual products shot, recorded, tested and mounted in post-production in different spaces and times in accordance with the standards of protection. President, the Minister's words look with awareness and courage at the problems of culture and the restart in an area not only strategic but certainly the most fascinating of our country, because anthropological, because it is so inherent in us that we sometimes take it for granted. Maybe, in part, this is also the reason why culture in our country has always been a bit snubbed: in Italy we are used to beauty, we live inside, we live in it. Well, Minister, we don't want to get used to living and breathing beauty every day. Hence the need to act quickly and adequately support this strategic and vital sector, as you have indicated, with measures already taken and others to be taken, because now - and I conclude, President - something is being done or we will see the disappearance of activities, professionalism and presences that contribute to building this identity of ours. Creativity cannot disappear, talent cannot disappear, culture cannot disappear. If all this disappeared, our being attentive to rights, our being a community, our popular feeling, our knowledge, that is present in every gesture of our lives would disappear. If culture disappeared, Italy would disappear. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u177	She's enlisted to speak Senator Petrenga. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u178	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the arguments put forward show the good fruits of the persevering propensity for help shown by the Brothers of Italy, which must be an example to a large part of the majority who see a motionless agitation, without having managed to create a common front against the Covid-19, our enemy. I note, Minister, that you considered listening to my recent question on the extension of bathing concessions, in which I called for immediate and decisive intervention by the Government. The news of its proposal to extend the bathing concessions until 2033 gives perspective to a strategic sector such as seaside tourism, already in crisis for a long time. However, more needs to be asked and done on this issue, as we are now in phase 2. Now it is necessary to have both a short and a long-term vision, to plan investments, to stimulate the start of a more determined Italian governance; an imposing deployment of resources and the creation of systems capable of abandoning the enduring sense of oppression of the state of emergency. A state declared, and in some ways strongly opposed, that has compressed many individual rights, with serious doubts of constitutionality expressed by a large part of the legal doctrine, and finally also by the President of the Constitutional Court. It follows that the opportunity not to be missed is to enhance these individual rights, also through a digitization that in the "Netflix of culture" proposed by you find a fair balance between traditional use and a medium, a digital ecosystem serving a precautionary principle. We must therefore imagine the culture and the museum, artistic and tourist environments as areas to be reformulated, in which to insert a path of growth that also contemplates that part of didactics that today struggles to express itself in the traditional school spaces. In parallel, a necessary journey must also be undertaken, through culture, to give full awareness of what it is to be a citizen. Being Civis involves duties; being Italian brothers means being regiments with pride of civic duties, carrying them and not bearing them, and the task of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities is to make this burden perceived as freely expressed, exercised and not immediately, also through the use of a cultural good. It is certainly necessary to provide for an extension of the receptiveness of the museums in spaces currently not used, also in order to better allow an effective social distance. I asked him a question last August, to which I am still waiting to answer, on the promotion of museums of Italian history, taking inspiration from the Reggia of Caserta, so dear and close to me. The proposal is part of the framework agreement for the enhancement and promotion of the Italian museum and military heritage, signed in July 2016 by the then Minister of Defence Pinotti and the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities Franceschini. The proposal can fulfil several purposes: respect for the correct social distance in the use of museums, without sacrificing the museum offer, but rather broadening it; the promotion of a journey of civic reeducation to collective duties, also through the rediscovery of the memory of home history; the valorization of cultural tourism of small villages that can express a feeling of home history, linking paths and thematic itineraries in order to direct the tourist flows elsewhere, decongested the influx to the beaches; the use of tools of public-private partnership to reactivate, through public partnership and guarantees on the risk of enterprise, private resources that naturally gravitate around the museums; creating a path of memories that unites families and, in particular, generations; networking and digital integration of such services and activities. Today we look to the future, but with our feet firmly in the present. As is sadly known, Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 provided for the suspension of events, initiatives, events and meetings in a public or private place (also of a cultural, playful, sporting, recreational and religious character) for the cultural sector, theaters, concert halls, dance halls, limitation, suspension and closure of museums, the suspension of higher artistic musical and choreutica training. The decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 26 April extended these measures until 17 May. At the same time, however, the measures taken in these sectors to deal with the consequences of the closure and suspension of all activities appear to be largely insufficient. Our president Giorgia Meloni, from the first moment of the Covid-19 season, has shown an attitude of loyal institutional collaboration; even in the diversity of views and approaches we do not want to remain deaf to the voice of a country that asks for more. That is why I must be more and more specific in my questions to the Minister on'sé', 'in what way' and 'in what way' when he thinks he is putting in place a series of measures. I am thinking first of all of appropriate economic measures to safeguard bathing enterprises; for example, measures to exempt or suspend the payment of concessions, but also of taxation due to the municipalities where they are located and, during the summer, appropriate measures of social distancing, both of the establishments and of the free beaches, however protecting the legitimate expectations of the concessionaires. With regard to the many private companies operating in the additional services, what support policies does the Ministry then intend to adopt towards them, so highly dependent on the policies assumed by the ministerial management? In view of the fact that the Ministry has allocated EUR 5 million to the company in house ALES, for the protection, enhancement and use of the places of culture, what use is envisaged for these sums thus allocated? In the wake of the extension of the bathing concessions, will it not be appropriate to include as soon as possible the extension in emergency, compared to the procedure provided for in the Code of Procurement, the assignments and the concessions of the additional services already existing, also with supervisory tasks related to the correct social distance in the museums? With regard to museum use, will it not be appropriate to insert reservation systems, in order to avoid long waits and gatherings? Will it be possible to provide for automatic temperature screening mechanisms at the time of entry? For the world of entertainment workers, is it really sufficient, Minister, for the month of March allowance of EUR 600, i.e. the suspension until 30 April of the time limits for the payment of withholding taxes, contributions and premiums for compulsory insurance, as well as VAT? For the entertainment, cinema, the audiovisual sector, for operators in the sectors, including artists, authors, performers and performers, is the allocation of EUR 80 million and EUR 50 million appropriate for 2020? Is it desirable to expect a re-launch of summer festivals, guaranteeing priority to the thousands of associations and companies in the sector that do not have access to the FUS, and is it desirable to consider also the possibility of ratifying protocols of understanding with the municipalities concerned? In this respect, Minister, for those who work in the entertainment sector, who have been granted 18 weeks of supplementary insurance, and for those who are not in a position to perform theatrical activities because the emergency has blocked them, would it not be appropriate to extend this measure at least until the end of the year? They are in serious difficulty. In the matter of reimbursement of tickets and tickets for access to shows and museums, is it considered correct to issue a voucher equal to the purchase certificate to be used within one year of issue? For opera foundations, don't you think you have to protect lyric-symphonic foundations with a balance of resources that must be addressed all for the benefit of music? Here, Minister, on these issues we await an answer, as well as on other possible scenarios, such as remodelling for 2020 the criteria of access to the resources of the Single Fund for entertainment and tax credit, providing additional resources... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] ..and publishing, archives, libraries, museums, including state and municipal museums, set up a fund with an investment function both with the Deposit and Loan Fund and with the Sports Credit Institute. We will not fail to be present, keeping alive our contribution. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u179	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u180	Mr President, Mr Franceschini, the Coronavirus emergency has brought to the fore the tragedy of millions of precarious citizens of our country, in equally precarious areas. Today, Minister, we have the opportunity to discuss with you two of the sectors most affected by the current emergency: entertainment and tourism. During these weeks, forced into our homes, we have appreciated with greater awareness how fundamental culture is in our lives, an essential pillar of our being and worthy of due attention even in political decisions. It is therefore a matter of putting in place material and intangible policies with a very high public impact. The world of entertainment is linked to the destiny of prestigious and not prestigious names, of actors, authors, musicians, artists, to whom the periods of training and preparation are not recognized in any way as work. But there is also and above all a large category, which you know well, of technicians, assistants, costume designers, drivers, electricians. Without these professionals there would be no show, event, concert, comedy and movies. I am talking about hundreds of thousands of workers and billions of euros of GDP lost in these first weeks of detention and we know that the stop will be much longer. The show, especially the live one, was, like tourism, among the first sectors to stop and will unfortunately be among the last to start again. The vast majority of the entertainment workers have always lived unjustly with an uncertain future. It is, in fact, a world with a high percentage of precarious contracts, so-called on-call, with discontinuous and often inadequate wages, sporadic social security payments, imponderable calendars and intermittent insurance coverage. The problem, therefore, is structural, but the Covid - 19 has complicated and exasperated the situation. The health emergency and the consequent blockade have almost immediately erased the activities of the show and the forms of support put in place have often proved inactivateable precisely because of the precariousness of the contractual typologies in place. For example, very few can use the Integration Fund; others will see their applications rejected for the 600 euro bonus, as the parameters envisaged do not take into account the intermittency, at best the assumptions, their contracts and the precariousness to which they have been sentenced for years. The so-called decree cure Italy has provided as an essential requirement that a worker of the show can access the bonus if registered to the pension fund workers of the show for at least 30 daily contributions in 2019. However, many of these workers, precisely because of the atypical situation described, not only do not meet this limit, but, being forced to do a second job (almost always in the same sector, but VAT as occasional benefits subject to separate INPS management), are also excluded as freelance professionals. We must then make an effort, in this and in other areas, to put ourselves in the position of "seeing", of "discovering" these workers and, allowed the difficulties of the institutions in this sense, we trust that no one is left behind, as you said and stressed yourself. As a political group, we have proposed amendments which have been set aside in the light of the new decree which you yourself defined as '55 billion'. I would like to point out to the Minister and the Government some of these guidelines of interventions for the next measures: an emergency income, at least until autumn, with the inclusion of the occasional benefit among the types of work that give right to the bonus; the reduction of the limit of the thirty days (we had proposed a reduction to fifteen days) that would seem to allow the NASPI or the distribution over two years (I know that you are working on this hypothesis also); the coverage of the contributions that will not be completed by the bonus. For the future, a structural reform of the sector will also have to be introduced to ensure protection and economic continuity for workers. An example could be the availability allowance, as well as the unification of the contribution - separate management and fund - for those who are forced to perform second jobs, the insurance cover for the whole period in which they are under contract and not just for the days when they are physically engaged. Minister, if the entertainment sector is experiencing a difficult situation, the tourism sector is probably the most affected. It is in fact obvious - you said this - that it will take a long time before you can return to see our country crowded with tourists from all over the world. The tourism sector is fundamental in all respects for our country: it employs about 4.2 million people and generates 13% of our GDP, which can also push up to 20%, as you well know, well beyond 232 billion euros of GDP. It defines the image of Italy in the world, ideally combining our past, our present and also our future. For this reason we need strong and courageous action, able to respond to the immediate and no longer procrastinable needs matured in these weeks of complete blocking, of so-called lockdown. In recent days, in the context of the discussion of the bill to convert the decree-law cure Italy, the Parliament has approved an agenda of the majority that indicates the way to the Executive on the measures necessary to meet the demands of the sector. Minister Franceschini, we expect, for example, the Government to be timely and effective in exonerating tourist-receptive enterprises in relation to the payment of property taxes, in reducing the fees due and extending all payment deadlines. It will also be important to support seasonal workers by extending protection against them through incentives for businesses. Finally, I believe that the idea of encouraging Italian citizens themselves to spend their holidays in Italy is not only very useful, but also absolutely feasible. I very much appreciated the attention you have given to the fact that you do not allow tourist-hotel facilities to end up in the hands of those who, Italian or foreign, have a liquidity whose origins are unknown. We need to pay close attention to this, because it is a danger that we must bear in mind. At the same time, our country needs more than ever a strategy that in the coming years accompanies the tourism companies, precisely to resume that very important role that they have had so far, that makes them able to cross the challenges of the future. Despite the difficulties - it is well to remember - we are a country with a cultural and landscape richness without equal in the world and I hope that together we will be able to live up to this beauty. We very much appreciated your words yesterday at the hearing in the Commission and today in this House. We know that it has clear problems and possible solutions; we know that unfortunately the Scientific and Technical Committee has not yet answered its questions; we know that the support of the whole of Parliament will be necessary and we think of some courageous progress. For example, for me this will be a particular year with the loss of the season of the Greek theatre in Syracuse, because for years and years I have never missed any of the performances, so this year will be remembered precisely for this lack. I hope you can try to catch up to the last one, but I don't know. We will, however, be at your side; we will be at your side if necessary, so that your proposals today are a reality already from Decree-Law 55 billion, as you have called it. I did not think that today on these issues in this House there was talk of manslaughter or even preterintentional murder; I thought that the themes were others, that is why I wish you good work. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u181	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u182	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for this information and for the important work he is doing. We are aware that Italy will not be able to leave until culture begins again. At the beginning of this crisis, when in a sudden and dramatic way they closed the cinemas, the theatres, the squares, even the word "culture" had the risk of disappearing from the debate and the agenda of priorities and we avoided this happening. The government has done well to put in place a plan to protect all our sectors. I am referring to the measures of economic support, fiscal advantage and social shock absorbers that you have outlined here. We strongly ask you to implement them. Italy is, first of all, a great cultural power and it is what distinguishes us in the world and allows our Made in Italy to conquer and emotionalize. Woe, though, to talk about culture in abstract, because culture is a multiplier of thought, social ties and gross domestic product. Culture is above all the incredible set of workers, professionalism and talents and this must be our point of view, that of passions pursued and built between a thousand difficulties. We know that this crisis is likely to wipe out entire generations of creatives, technicians and artists, but no one will have to give up their project of life. You have also said this here today and we strongly reaffirm it here today as an absolute commitment. Let us say that it is false that this crisis affects everyone in the same way because - we know - there is a risk that the strong will become even stronger and that, instead, those who were already at risk of being excluded today risk being deleted. This must be our political priority: to protect, above all, independent enterprises and, in particular, unsuited workers, workers of the live show (who were the first to close and we fear will be the last to reopen), intermittent freelancers, who are the great part of this world and yet - we know - do not have enough protection because they are invisible, because they lack the recognition of the status of the artistic professions, because there is a lack of a statute of cultural and creative work that designs a system of rights that allows to work with dignity and maybe, one day, also have a pension. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the issue and this crisis sweeps all the things that are not going and amplifies them, inequalities and disparities, and we cannot fail to see them. That is why we must intervene, and that is why it is not enough to stop the emergency, but we need to think of a radical reform because our system is too closed and needs to be changed. There are too many twists that feed dominant positions, rents and bulkheads that prevent access to new energies, to the experimentation of new languages. An emblem of all this is the Single Fund for entertainment, which is the cornerstone of all our cultural production, which is an important tool and yet we know that, despite the improvement that we really wanted, the criteria make this a conservative instrument that risks excluding, rewarding those who are already there (tradition and repertoire), but we need public support that extends the system, that gives opportunities and opportunities to those who have not had, that recognizes and promotes independent production. We must have the strength to impose a fairer distribution of copyright resources, which SIAE does not do today, in fact favouring large networks. We need - you said so - a large public subject that makes production, distribution, that supports the cultural demand, that revolutionizes the offer by focusing on creativity. And this, Minister, is the function that must carry out by vocation the RAI: stop buying pre-packaged products outside and become a great factory of productive pluralism, new talents, defending Italian production, starting from the independent one with real quotas, broadcasting quotas for contemporary Italian music, for contemporary Italian audiovisual. To have this strength to reinvent within this crisis so hard the world of culture needs vision, it is necessary to open a great public and political debate. Mr President, that is why we asked the Committee on Culture yesterday for an early round of hearings to be held in order to share with a world that is now boiling, rightly, a new model. It means having strategic, cultural public investments, a new deal for culture. I do not use this term at random. It must be designed in these weeks in which we experience restarting, because, Minister, it is necessary to leave, not to let summer pass: it would be untenable for too many. Live audiences cannot be replaced by streaming, the raison d'être of the live show would fail. We need to create the conditions immediately so that we can, safely, go back to playing, dancing, acting live in the squares and courtyards. We need this certainty, because culture is exchange, community, mutual trust, shared breath of our society. We will not conquer this border for a sector, but for an entire country that wants to leave and will leave again. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u183	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u184	Mr President, first of all I would like to start with a comment that has just sent me, by message, a travel agent who is watching us live: and so? What will become of us? Because, after an intervention in the Commission and an intervention here in this House, the world of tourism has not yet understood anything you want to do about this sector. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Mr Minister, we have understood from your speech that culture is the sector that is most of your interest; we have now understood it, everyone understands it. Therefore, reminding us that the productive system of culture generates, including the induced, about 255 billion euros, we propose two points that are important for us: first, an extraordinary fund of 1 billion euros lost, because without it the productions do not start again. The majority of our colleagues have also said this: money is needed to restart the Italian production system. Secondly, it is necessary to block the foreclosure by Equitalia of one hundred percent of the copyrights for those who receive folders. Minister, as far as tourism is concerned, we were very concerned because we did not have any news of you and many associations in the sector were ready to call "Who saw it?" When the pandemic began, we would have expected his immediate intervention, instead nothing, a deafening silence. The same disinterest shown on the occasion of Thomas Cook's failure [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] , when we asked you, when you settled in, to help the world of tourism because this international operator had failed, and you did not move a finger. On 26 February, when this crisis began, we convened and brought together the most important tourism associations and, together with them, prepared proposals on tourism. If you remember, Minister - if you do not remember, I will give you back what I had given you - on 2 March at MIBACT, with a very constructive attitude, we put on the table the proposals of the world of tourism: not of the League, of the world of tourism. Since then we have heard nothing, a deafening silence. I'm the only one who gets the phone calls from travel agencies, tour operators, beach resorts, hoteliers, bars and restaurants, spas, theme parks, tourist guides, travelers, bed and breakfasts, farmhouses - and I could go on for hours - asking someone to listen to them? If the associations or operators ask us to be heard or to listen to them because no one in the government listens to them, it means that the situation is very serious. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Only Senator Borgonzoni receives e-mails and phone calls from cultural operators, museum operators, who organizes the events? They also say: they talk a lot about culture but, Senator, nothing is being done here, they are not doing anything even for the culture sector. So, Minister, one advice: less Fazio and more Commissions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] Less television and more conference calls with industry operators. Tourism is the sector that will not restart immediately and that will suffer the crisis more than others. [[Senator Centinario, addressing the benches of the majority, calls for silence. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] In these hours, Minister, we have heard you speak of a non-refundable guarantee fund: well, we proposed it in the famous document, but that it be quick and with little bureaucracy. We heard her talk about a good vacation: well, we had proposed it and you blocked it in the Chamber to resubmit it. The Leader of the Democratic Party in the Commission in the House (go and see a press release), when we presented it said that it was an unrealizable thing and that it was crazy to present the good holiday. Explain to the Parent Company in the Commission productive activities, trade and tourism in the House that perhaps the fools are the ones who had made that comment! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As for Law No 145 on the extension of bathing concessions, in order to interpret that law, it is sufficient to take up the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that we had agreed with Europe: if you change that law and Europe sends you into violation, you take responsibility for having sent an infringement of a measure that was good for Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, we understand that tourism is Arabic for you, so I give you three tips. Tourism is planning, the sector needs aid for businesses and workers: lost funds, fund for integration, vouchers. Secondly, tourism needs the rules of the game, Minister: before reopening, operators need to understand what can be done and what not and especially how, but you have to tell them quickly, because the season has already begun. Thirdly, tourism is emotion and promotion: the good holiday for tourism and cultural events in Italy and then a communication to Italians simple and understandable. We'll be on your side if you do. We gave her a series of ideas of reflection so from tomorrow you can all tell the Italians that you are phenomena and that these ideas are yours, we are now used to hearing you say it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u185	VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Bravo! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u186	Mr President, Minister Franceschini, my fellow senators, I say this with all due respect to this House and to those who speak to it: we risk dying of rhetoric. For Christ's sake, it is all true that the cultural industry is a great national strategic industry with 1.7 million jobs, 30% occupied by less than thirty years, with an input of 16% of GDP, with the flywheel of tourism, I add the element of national identity and the extraordinary card of Italy in the world. All this is the Italian cultural industry, but it is an industry that has been historically mistreated and that does not have a systemic organization. It is mistreated because we are still in the fourth place in Europe for public funding and on the organization - you know better than I do - are many worlds that do not speak and do not make system. This is a serious element of weakness, the sign of a form of political masochism by those who have ruled in the past, a masochism that seems to me this Government has made its own, insofar as, beyond the words of today, in the decree care Italy has been allocated an objectively miserable figure: of the many national strategic industries, the cultural one is the one that in the mythical phase 2 will not reopen its doors and no one will work. I understand the difficulties, I also see a difficulty in exercising the imagination to put the workers of the thousand worlds of which culture is composed able to exercise their art for the benefit of the Italian public. Minister Franceschini, so the Italian cultural industry is in danger of going bankrupt. This crisis could be an opportunity to restructure the cultural industry, to make it truly competitive and relaunch it on national and international markets. The precondition for this to happen, of course, is that those who work there survive and therefore there are times the proposals that Forza Italia has made to support the many categories that make up this great and extraordinary industry. I limit myself, for reasons of time, to quoting one: copyright. On 21 March last year, the European Parliament, with the only votes against by the League and the 5 Star Movement (in my opinion the League revised its opinion at the time, on the opinion of the 5 Star Movement I dare not venture) approved a directive, approved it on the basis of the European People's Party's push, approved it thanks to the commitment, in particular, of Antonio Tajani. It is a directive that puts an end to the greatest intellectual property theft in the history of humanity, carried out by large web companies to the detriment of national authors and publishers. Last summer, France, a country that has a certain opinion of itself, transposed that directive, in recent weeks the French Competition Authority has placed Google and comrades a sort of ultimatum that roughly says so: if within three months they do not agree with the publishers and authors to recognize them a fair compensation, they will make the rules and regret it. Colleagues, that is how a State acts, that is how Italy should act. None of this seems to happen. In this branch of Parliament, the European delegation law has long been in the Commission for European policies, despite the Italian authors, who, tell us the numbers of SIAE, on average earned 1,000 euros a month - now they do not earn even those obviously - both with water at their throats and with water at their throats were, even before this crisis, the publishers. Colleagues, I turn more to the parties that support this Government than to the Minister, in this case: if we want to get out of the empty rhetoric, if we want to take responsibility for justice and national interest, because there is perhaps nothing more strategic for Italy than its creativity, we must first approve, at the heart of the directive on copyright. We must demonstrate in practice that this House is not subject to the conditionings of the most powerful lobby in history, a lobby that does not create jobs in Italy, that does not pay taxes in Italy, that systematically robs the Italian authors, that is the web lobby. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u187	He is registered to speak Senator Croatti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u188	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if there is an economic sector that is at the heart of the tourism sector at the moment, it is the tourism sector, which does not export goods but imports people and gives experience and emotions. We must look at the extraordinary picture of what is happening in order to be able to intervene correctly on this issue which is all too often trivialized. Lately we hear about moving the cot of one or two meters or dividing the umbrellas with a plexiglass. This does not do good for this sector. We need an industrial policy, for the first time, in the short, medium and long term. In the short term, Minister, you need liquidity, you need a non-refundable credit. Unioncamere has spoken of 98% of companies that will have an absolute need for liquidity right now. All right the bonus, it's an incentive to move, to move around the territory and it's important, but in the medium term they need new regulations to innovate and look at the exchange rate. [[Brusio]] Shut up, please, I can't talk! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let me tell you, though. I should say so. Go on. Excuse me, Mr. President. Soon there will be a new question about the hygiene sector, the environmental sector, sustainability, well-being and healthy lifestyle. We need innovative tools for companies. We need sburocratization. The theme parks are blocked on age-old Ateco codes. We've been crammed into this situation for so many years now, and they can't get out of it. Tourist guides are constantly asking for help. It is necessary to encourage the amalgamation of small structures on the territory, leave the spaces, build hotels joining what is in the territory of dilapidated and leaving free spaces in the city. You need courage right now. It is not possible that every time you remove a structure a building speculation arises. I come from a territory that will pay dearly for this period, namely Romagna. It is the entrepreneurs and administrators who courageously want to roll up their sleeves, they want to try to work, they want to face the season, but they need the protocols, President, and they need them to arrive immediately no to today: they had to arrive yesterday. We need to be able to intervene on our facilities in order to start the season, which is not a shop that just pulls up the shutter. It takes his time to complete. We need protocols immediately, the mayors from all over Italy ask. Finally, it is necessary to be close to the entrepreneurs at this time. The risk of bankruptcy and disposal of the assets is very high. Acquisitions and infiltrations on all territories are really on the agenda. The Ministry of Interior has sent a circular to all prefects, who are warning the territories. You have to stay close to them and support entrepreneurs. In conclusion, President, I saw a great work on the territory by the Government, the Region, the Provinces, the Forces of the Order together with the prefectures, the Civil Protection and the Municipalities where the Movimento 5 Stars, the PD and the center-right together were present, in helping the citizens. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone to stop fighting: people really can't do it anymore. We need to work together to face this great challenge. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u189	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u192	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would like to address, through you, the President of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Labour and the Directorate-General of the INPS, a problem that has been affecting so many citizens and the whole health system for weeks, concerning the certification of risk conditions for immunodepressed patients or for oncologic diseases or the results thereof. It had been provided, in Article 26 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, that the attestation of these conditions, in order to allow these persons the preventive isolation and the authorization to leave work, should be granted by the competent health authorities. In the conversion of the decree-law, in addition to the competent health authorities, it had been certified that they were entitled to produce this authorization to leave work even the primary care doctors. We had tabled the question 3-01489, which raised this question and above all the question of the definition of procedures to be put in place for immunodepressants and people to the outcomes of oncology. There is no valid procedure. This morning we wrote a letter to the subjects to whom I referred earlier, so that, on the occasion of the expiry, on 30 April, of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, the coverage that the norm gave also to the basic doctors, but above all that it is clarified which procedure to implement. Since there is no procedure, every single INPS headquarters in the different territories has done it on its own. In Emilia-Romagna, the INPS in Bologna launched a procedure that, weeks later, the national INPS has disowned, with the risk that those who have used that procedure to request the intervention may not be recognized the contribution in the face of absence from work. We are really asking for attention in this respect. The subject is well explained in the question I referred to, so we ask that the answer of the INPS be fast and covers both the definition of who is authorized to certify, and the procedure by which to make the certification.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u195	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am glad that you are chairing this afternoon, at the end of this sitting, because my speech is aimed precisely at stimulating the Presidency in order to reactivate the work of the Foreign Affairs Commission of our Senate. In fact, in emergency time for coronavirus, in the last two months, the Foreign Commission has only been convened once, in sixty days, despite our many requests. I am reporting this because I find this very strange. We all know, in fact, that our Foreign Minister and his Undersecretaries are very effervescent on the international stage. Indeed, in a very nice way, I have renamed Minister Di Maio Minister for Foreign Health, because he is extremely active at international level. However, dear President, this activity is not accompanied by a work of the Commission, so the fact, in my opinion, is very serious. It is serious that our Foreign Minister is very active on the international stage, but that the Foreign Affairs Committee does not follow this work at all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I, like so many Members who follow foreign affairs, am on a blog that informs me every day about the hottest scenarios or, in any case, updates me on the most important information. I browse the daily information slightly, starting from today and going back, and I quote the names of the important scenarios: Libya, Iraq, North Korea, Malaysia, Israel, Germany and Lebanon, Afghanistan (which never lacks); still Iraq, USA and Canada (who knows why), Yemen, China, Syria, Iran, still Libya, Hong Kong and so on, I could continue, every day there is something important. This is very strange. I would point out that, apparently, no colleague from the majority of the Foreign Affairs Committee is interested in convening the Commission, given the important scenario, especially during this emergency phase. I do not think it is any less important that, at least in one case, only the Senators of the League were present in the Foreign Affairs Committee (we were the only ones present in the Commission) and that it is often we, the members of the opposition and we of the League, who guarantee the quorum to the Foreign Affairs Committee. I think this is extremely embarrassing. I believe that the issue of foreign affairs is central at this time of emergency and therefore, please, ask the Presidency of the Commission to reactivate itself and to make us work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u196	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u197	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u198	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, among the great sad and dramatic stories of so many deaths consumed in the closed of our country's various intensive therapies, despite the dedication, efforts and self-denial of so many health workers, doctors and nurses, I want to point out a bad story, unfortunately, ended with a tragic epilogue, which occurred at the hospital in Castellammare di Stabia, Napoletano, with the death of Covid-19, after being subjected to surgery for intestinal infarction, by a 59-year-old marine inspector, Luigi Rivieccio. All this despite the efforts, professionalism, emotional and affective participation of doctors, nurses and health workers. Why do I tell a bad story? Not only for the tragic epilogue, which has thrown into dismay and inconsolable pain all the family members, in particular the wife Magdalene and the children Mary and Francis, but for what happened after death and that we can say, if possible, it was in the same devastating way and that it must touch the conscience of the author or the authors of this lowest action, but also that of all of us: the disappearance of the bag containing the most expensive personal effects of the deceased. Among these, the documents, the gold chain with the image of Our Lady always carrying around her neck, the bracelet, the mobile phone with photos of the moments of joy and intimacy lived together with the family, as stated by the family members themselves in the complaint lodged at the Public Prosecutor's Office of Torre Annunziata. The immense and heartbreaking pain of family members for the crossing, without having the chance to stand next to him and give him the last greeting or caress him for the last time, becomes even bigger and inconsolable when you can't hold in your hands the most dear personal memories. This is obviously not for their material value, but for their affective value. Needlessly the family asked the leaders of the hospital in Castellammare to clarify what happened, there was only a discharge of responsibility with different versions provided of what happened. No one wants to take responsibility or admit mistakes or inattentiveness. It is absurd that such an unfortunate incident occurred in a closed department to the public and strangers, a few hours after their death. This small action, that is the disappearance or the theft of the bag with personal effects, is, unfortunately, a bad signal both of the moral degradation that we are going through, and above all of the absence of a real sharing of the drama happened. The hope is that there will be a spark that shakes everyone's consciences so that similar episodes will never happen again. I trust in the work of the judiciary, which can clarify what is denounced, and I publicly express my personal solidarity and closeness to the whole family for the inconsolable pain for the loss of the late Luigi. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u199	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-214.ana.u200	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 7 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.15 a.m.
