ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u3	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1845, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call Senator Pagano to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u4	If a little silence were to be created, Mr President, I would also be able to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I rise to speak on Decree-Law No 26 of 20 April 2020, one of the many launched by the Government in Covid-19. We have often had the opportunity to discuss the constitutional legitimacy of these measures, we have discussed the DPCM for a long time and we have finally considered that some argument, linked to the possibility of expressing a measure by the President of the Council of Ministers, could be legitimate. But here we are faced with another kind of problem. In this provision, in the matter of electoral consultations for the year 2020, the Government has previewed - as the Undersecretary in Commission has explained - for reasons of health emergency and, above all, as suggested by the Technical-scientific Committee of which it makes use, to identify a time force, a period within which to establish a single date, the so-called election day, in order to carry out the municipal, administrative and regional elections. Even if - as everyone knows - it is the Regions that themselves should determine the date on which to carry out the consultations, from this measure emerges the political will on the part of the Government to have all the electoral operations carried out on a single date. It also emerges that the Government intends to set this date, at the suggestion of the Committee I was talking about before, by September. Well, so far someone can dispute the fact that in order to be able to hold the elections, for example on 20 and 21 September, it is in fact necessary to deposit the lists... [[Brusio.]] I am sorry, Mr President, but I would ask you if you could call my colleagues to silence, so much so that we can chat outside.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u5	Colleagues, the House is not a square.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u6	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). To chat you can go quietly outside the Chamber. There's no need to do that in here. I also wanted to focus on the fact that in the Commission, in the other branch of Parliament, it was intended to introduce the constitutional referendum in this election day. There are no precedents of constitutional referendums which took place on the same date as other electoral consultations, whether municipal, provincial, regional, political or even European. There is no precedent. Three constitutional referendums have already taken place, in 2001, 2006 and 2016, as is known to each of us, and they have always been held independently and autonomously. On that day we voted only for the constitutional referendum, so-called confirmation, although - as I shall say now - this is an oppositionary referendum, former Article 138 of the Constitution, which has nothing to do with the repealing referendum under Article 75 of the Constitution. Well, the will to introduce the constitutional referendum on that date is something that we do not believe can be done, and is spoiled by constitutional legitimacy. [[Applause]] And it is not just for a well-established practice. Yesterday, in the Commission, undersecretary Variati himself had to admit that in one circumstance, namely in 2006 - when the organic constitutional reform was voted on, which was packaged by the then centre-right majority - there was the possibility of putting together sacred and profane, i.e. political elections with constitutional referendums. That year, in fact, we voted for the referendum on June 25 and only a month before we voted for the renewal of the municipal councils and mayors of the most important cities of our country, that is, Milan, Rome, Naples, Turin and hundreds of other Italian municipalities. They would, therefore, have put together the one and the other election if this had been possible; in fact, it was not done because it is not allowed by a precise rule in our Constitution. In fact, our fundamental Charter does not prescribe what cannot be done: it must be deduced from the dictates of it. Well, there is a judgment of the Consultative Committee - No. 496 of 2000 - which establishes, first of all, the nature of the constitutional referendum, which is of an opposing nature. The Supreme Court, in fact, emphasizes that the people intervene only as an application for restraint, for preservation and guarantee, or for confirmation subsequent to a parliamentary will for revision already perfect; that is, Parliament has decided, it must be the people, in terms of opposition, who, if necessary, want to oppose a will expressed by its representatives in Parliament. And it is clear that, precisely because of this nature, the appointment of the referendum cannot be linked to other electoral representations of a completely different nature and of political expression, so much so that - the Supreme Court concludes - thanks to the times, the modalities, the stages in which the referendum is organised, loads the political choice of the maximum rationality of which, for its part, is capable, and tends to reduce the risk that this choice is linked to contingent situations. Moreover, the turnout at the polls is asymmetrical, for the obvious reason that we vote in six Italian regions, not in all, for a total of 18 million voters. Therefore, I would like to stress the fact that Senator Pagano does not just say this; this is what the Constitutional Court says: a referendum cannot be polluted by contingent situations linked to other political events. It is clear to all of us that if we vote on the same day in six regions and not in all of Italy - and we vote, therefore, asymmetrically with respect to the remaining part of the national territory, for 18 million Italians - we influence, we drug in a shameless way the turnout to the ballot box for the constitutional referendum, given the absolutely unique nature of this type of referendum. The latter, in fact, must intervene - be careful - not on any law, not on an ordinary law, but on our Constitutional Charter. Then, we must be careful: the health emergency is not enough to justify a clearly spoiled measure of unconstitutionality. Finally, I would like to say another point that I spoke about in the Commission this morning. When the Undersecretary Variati said that everything had to be put together because the Technical and Scientific Committee suggested it, I reminded him that there are over 5 million Italian voters living abroad. [[Applause]] Many of these Italians live in countries where the Covid-19 virus is particularly acute at this time. I was just reading the news that in Brazil alone, on yesterday's day (therefore only in twenty-four hours), over 35,000 new infections have been counted. Covid-19 is also growing in the United States of America, Chile and many other countries in North and South America. It is evident that this type of contagion is not spread in a planned way throughout the Planet. Therefore, interfering on the referendum campaign of Italians living abroad (who are Italian voters like all of us and who have our own constitutional rights to express the vote) vividly spoils - compared to the conditions and elements I mentioned earlier - this measure on the level of constitutional legitimacy. We are talking about the desire to make Italians express themselves, regardless of whether they vote yes or no (this is not the subject we are dealing with, ladies and gentlemen). I repeat, it is only the right to make Italians express themselves in an absolutely regular way. Since the will to make this referendum take place is not by a certain senator, but by more than 70 senators from all the political groups present in Parliament, I believe that it is a right of all to highlight this aspect and, therefore, I call on everyone to be consistent with their request for a referendum. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call Senator Ciriani to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u7	Mr President, in order to illustrate the inevitably political significance of our preliminary question, I believe that it is necessary not only to frame in political terms the situation that distinguishes Parliament's activity and, in particular, the Senate. The decree-law that we should vote from here at a few hours is yet another provision that arrives in the Senate without the possibility of a real, frank and effective discussion that can produce results in the confrontation between majority and opposition. On the other hand, Parliament serves this purpose: to compare positions and, if possible, to find a synthesis between the different guidelines in the field. The one under consideration is yet another decree-law on which trust will inevitably be placed. It is a decree-law that arrives only a few hours from the expiration of the sixty days and that fits, even if with small differences from the others, in the furrow of the repeated decree-laws that arrive and completely replace the parliamentary activity. I remember, in fact, that two years after the inauguration of the Government we have not even seen a law of parliamentary initiative. The decrees-laws are converted with confidence and there is even worse: trust is often placed not in the second, but even in the first reading. So, the current government has transformed our perfect bicameralism into an intermittent alternating current monocameralism, that is, once the House and once the Senate works. Often the House of Deputies deals with laws with financial impact, while the Senate is reserved only the possibility of dealing with rules of a legal nature that have no financial impact (or that may have, but being precluded the discussion is as if they had not). All this happens in sixty days. Then there is another fantastic novelty of the new way of lawmaking. The decree often absorbs another decree - thus becoming a maxidecret - because, with an amendment approved in the Commission, a subsequent decree is incorporated into the previous decree, creating the need for a further... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, it is really difficult to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u8	Colleagues, I appeal above all to those who even belong to the same Group as the speaker and who continue to speak unceasingly; please lower the tone of voice.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u9	CIRIANI (FdI). As I said, Mr President, there is also this novelty that the decrees absorb other decrees with the political necessity to speed up the times for which everything really becomes impossible. This intermittent monocameralism, with alternating currents, in my opinion is in contempt in Parliament. Today, when I read the press review quickly, I found that an important political reporter, making a summary of yesterday's day, wrote that Parliament was humiliated. If we add to all that I have said, Mr President and colleagues, that yesterday President Conte wanted to make, in this House, a simple information rather than a communication, as is foreseen by law, then you understand that we must use all the instruments that still remain in opposition to make us feel, for the dignity of the role we assume as we enter this House. In fact, the dignity of Parliament, parliamentarians and opposition is also expressed by the prejudices to make it clear to the Government, that it has a hard head, that oppositions are not a supermobile and that they must be respected, that they must be heard, and that Parliament must be respected and listened to. Last night - I listened only this morning in reply - President Conte, with ironic and mocking tones, said he had invited oppositions to Villa Pamphili - blessed him - and that they would not show up. But we were busy in Parliament, we were not on vacation, Mr Conte. We thank him, then, for giving us the opportunity to listen to him in Parliament with information. We have come out of the Chamber and therefore have not listened to it. President Count, the ridicule and mockery keeps it to itself. I would like to say, with the utmost seriousness, to President Calderoli, who represents President Casellati, that patience is over. Yesterday President Monti - not an eversor: President Monti, former President of the Council and already an authoritative representative of the European Commission - said that President Conte violated the law and weakened Parliament by making it a mere information and not communications. Therefore, I repeat once again that the Senate, Parliament has the duty and the right to demand that the laws apply to everyone, including President Conte. Is there, or is there not, Law No 243 of 2012, which in Article 4 and Article 5 provides absolutely for communications to Parliament and not information? Then, President Conte, either you come here and respect the laws you are bound to, or you do not reserve us this umpteenth humiliation, however with the ironic and mocking tones that you used with television and with the media. I would like an answer from the presidency of the Senate on this particular problem. Does the 2012 law exist or does it not exist? Is it still operational, or is it no longer operational? Are President Conte or who for him - all the presidents - still required to respect her or not? Otherwise, we will no longer get out of this, President Calderoli. It's a very, very serious matter, because we haven't talked about small things. We have talked about the future of Italy, the future of our economy, of our society, of the millions of unemployed who could be in September, about whether or not the European Union can guarantee the resources it has promised many times and which we have not yet seen. President Conte should also have the intelligence to understand that going to Europe without a parliamentary mandate does not make it stronger, it makes it weaker. If you don't understand this, I think you should change your profession and you should also stop humiliating the opposition with the tones you used yesterday on television, smiling with the air of superiority. The fair of vanities on the air at Villa Pamphili keeps it for itself. We, once again, invite him to Parliament, challenge him to confront us rather than continue to flee. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, your speech has clearly been instrumental in my view. We have the right to be instrumental, because the opposition, when it is cornered, uses all the means it has, even the instrumental ones. However, the preliminary ruling which we have tabled has serious elements which, in our opinion, need to be addressed and discussed. The first of which is that the date of the vote was once again chosen by the Government and the majority without comparison with the oppositions; not even on the rules we agree, not even on the elementary rules the Government accepts the comparison with us. Well this choice undermines the right of the active and passive electorate; active because it is difficult to make and prepare an electoral campaign, organize the collection of signatures and find public offices open in August. There is another reason, Mr President, that I would like to stress; Mr Calderoli, who seems to me to be the only one to listen to me and I thank him for that, if there is a double mandate limit for the mayors and often also for the governors, it is because it has been established by the legislator that there is a duty to balance the force that has a monocratic power directly elected and the limit of the mandate. That is, there is a position of natural electoral and political advantage for the mayor and the president of the Region that reappears. The legislator therefore placed a time limit on the duration of the mandates precisely because there is a natural and inevitable abuse of dominant position, to use a term foreign to politics. It is clear that the electoral campaign cannot be campaigned for those who run against the outside world, unable to organize an electoral campaign in August, those who run against a governor or an outgoing mayor, in fact, already have 99% of the chances of losing the elections, because it is not in a position to carry out the electoral campaign. Is that a small thing? A banality? Don't we want to talk about it? It doesn't matter, let's put another trust. All is well and the government and Parliament continue to do what they want. We then add some considerations on the referendum. It is a confirmation referendum; it is certainly not a repeal, there is no quorum, there is no danger that the political, municipal or administrative elections will inevitably contribute to raising the quorum and thus alter the sense of the electoral appointment, but it is, as the constitutionalists have written, a system referendum that calls into question the foundations of Parliament's representative capacity and should be kept far away from other electoral appointments, especially if they take place a few weeks from August and in conjunction with the beginning of the school year. I no longer have time because I see the microphone flashing, so for all these reasons, I believe that the Government should avoid yet another slap in Parliament, yet another humiliation to the opposition, having a more cooperative and even a little more intelligent attitude. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u10	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u13	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, I shall make a brief speech and then give the text of the speech. We would have liked to have done without discussing the question of the preliminary ruling, and it would probably have been much more interesting if Parliament had been confronted today, for example, with the possibility of preventing the forthcoming electoral deadlines from taking place again in school premises. As you know, in fact, this involves - today even more so, with all the criticalities that schools have experienced - a series of problems that we must find a way to solve. I am pleased that this morning in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs there has been an agenda which I had tabled and which calls on the Government to move in this direction. It would have been better if, as colleagues, we had discussed it today and found ways together to allow elections to take place in different places from school. Having said that, the reasons why the two preliminary questions appear weak compared to what is also the constitutional dictation, I believe they have to do with very practical reasons related to the situation we are experiencing. First of all, we are called upon to avoid assemblages, so it seems to me quite clear that splitting the electoral deadlines involves proceeding by asking people (which I do not think would understand this motivation) to go twice to the polls within a few weeks. Then there is a cost-related reason, because it seems to me quite evident that the state at this time, as often oppositions also call on specific issues, is called upon to avoid spending money when savings can be made. Moreover, in the same reference made by the Brothers of Italy it is said (I quote): "even if our order does not provide for an express prohibition of matching constitutional referendums with elections" - and that might be enough - it is important to note - colleagues continue - "that, in none of the previous cases where constitutional referendums have been held in republican history (...), it was considered to proceed with the combination with other elections". Now, you could argue for a long time about this "keep". In the meantime we should remember that, when the referendum law was made to allow the referendum on divorce to take place, the Christian Democracy, then a relative majority party and leading the government, believed to separate the paths of the referendum and elections for an exquisite reason of electoral tactics. There were no legal reasons, as in any of the judgments of the Constitutional Court that have to do with referendums. I quote in conclusion two things. The combination of ordinary referendums and local elections has, however, taken place; this is also more serious from a legal point of view, because you know that the repealing referendums need a participatory quorum and therefore in that case the participation, driven by the local elections, would have led, indeed has led to a different achievement of the quorum. This took place on 21 and 22 June 2009, with three referendum questions. But there are also ordinances of the Constitutional Court, for example No. 198 of 2005 and No. 131 of 1997 that have well clarified the discretion that the Government enjoys in choosing the date of consultations, which meets limits in the case of objective exceptional situations. I believe that the situation that we are experiencing is an absolutely exceptional situation and that, therefore, the reasons for opportunities and costs that I have mentioned allow the understanding that the Government proposes to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u14	The Presidency authorizes you to hand over the text of your speech, Senator Beginini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u17	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we shall vote in favour of this reference, for a number of reasons that have been very well illustrated by Senator Pagano; we also recognise those illustrated by the Brothers of Italy. If there is an argument about which oppositions should be involved (which according to the polls are more represented and more present in the country than the majority, but for now we are in the numbers in Parliament), this is the electoral consultations. Well, we have been involved in the sense that we too participate in the debate on the decree-law; but there has been no intercourse on the dates. So at least we should have followed a procedure that did not foresee innovations that had never been seen, such as combining a constitutional referendum with clearly political consultations. In fact, we know that in the regions the confrontation is political: the various groups represented in the Italian political panorama will present themselves with their candidates, with their alliances and with their coalitions in the regional center. Definitely they favor the outgoings, because it is expected to make "electoral campaign" (I say it in quotes) in August and in a very particular August, since we will be in a situation in which the concerns due to the pandemic, which is still present, will be very strong. But, above all, the 5 million Italians abroad will often find themselves in countries where the epidemic makes it impossible or does not recommend contacts and keeps many people away from home, under conditions in which they will not be able to exercise their right to vote. This right to vote would make particular sense to be expressed on this referendum, because it has consequences especially on the representation of Italians abroad. With this reform done in haste and fury, content from here and from there with respect to certain resistances in existence, the 5 million Italians abroad enrolled on the electoral lists - then there are all those who are not enrolled and the registration rate is large - will have four senators (one for each of the immense partitions) and, therefore, they will all be of the one-name colleges, when the law says it is proportional. The law formally says that they are proportional, but when only one representative is elected in Europe, only one in North America, only one in South America and only one in the rest of the world, he is actually a fierce majoritarian, where only the first party will be represented. This is exactly the opposite of the idea that, at the time, led to the modification of the Constitution - and not a legend - to give representation to Italians abroad. The 4.2 million Italians today - the increase suggests that the last consultations have reached 5 million - will have four senators of a single party, because those who win in one country will probably win in the others, while the 857,000 inhabitants of Trentino-Alto Adige will have 6 and, that is, one senator every 200,000 inhabitants, against one senator every million inhabitants for the Italians abroad. That's right: many here voted for it. Bravo, you voted for this marvel! Italians abroad are deprived of their representation to a great extent because most of them will be elected by a minority. [[Applause]] Do you want to give Italians abroad a chance to express themselves? Even in Italy there will be disparities: the inhabitants of the Valle d'Aosta and Trentino-Alto Adige will have 5.9 senators per million inhabitants. The inhabitants of the other regions will have, more or less, half and, that is, 3,2. Is this right? Does that make sense? Is it compatible with the spirit of the Constitution? The Constitutional Charter, among other things, had it not been changed subsequently, provided for a House of 750 members and a Senate of 300 and, that is, a higher number of parliamentarians than the current one. Do we want to make it possible for voters to read these indications and to be informed of them? I remember that we had arrived near the date of the referendum celebration, before it was postponed for the pandemic, and there had been no way of getting information through the great media, starting with those of the so-called public service. There was no way of getting information and there will be even less now, because it will have been dominated by the party campaigns of the regional elections. The sense of the referendum is to give citizens a chance to express themselves regardless of the parties, which are not ugly and bad, or the movements - whatever they want - which have already done their work, have their representatives in Parliament who have voted on laws and, in this case, voted on constitutional reform. We want to make it possible for citizens to speak independently and to avoid the campaign being for regional elections with someone who will tell us how to vote in the referendum. Almost everyone, in the same way, will say to vote thinking of picking up some extra votes, going to tell that Italy is the country that has the most parliamentarians in the world. On the contrary, if we make a comparison with the only country in the European Union that really has a number of parliamentarians less than Italy than the population, which is Germany, we note that it has many more elected and paid political representatives than Italy. It is true that in Germany there are only 707 Members and there is no real Senate, but, because it is a federal state and there is a Parliament for each of the 16 sixteen lands that make it up, it has a total of 1,900 representatives equivalent to our regional advisers, which, on the other hand, are about 850. So German legislators are about twice as many Italian legislators. But it is not enough because, below that level and above the municipal level, we have the Provinces that, although they have been scarred and devastated by the Delrio reform, still exist, have no resources whose advisers are not elected by the people and are not paid. It would have been 107, but then there were various and strange reforms. In Germany there are the districts, which are 294, for a total of 18,000 representatives, equivalent to our provincial councillors: all paid. The municipalities in Germany, compared to the population, are only in proportion: in Italy there are less than 8000, while in Germany there are more than 10,000. And all the mayors are paid much more than the mayors of Italy and are perhaps less subject to interventions by the judiciary towards them; judiciary that, when it rightly intervenes, is welcome and carries out its work very well; when, instead, it is angry with a mayor because there has been a landslide in a fraction of its municipality and, therefore, some misfortune happens, it is the fault of the mayor himself, and then the problems are greater. Do we want to give this kind of information to the Italians, instead of telling them that the ruin of everything is really a democratic representation? Maybe, let us take an example from China, which has few Members of Parliament compared to a population of 1.5 billion people? Or perhaps Venezuela or Iran, where Parliament is subject to the authority of the religious leader? [[Applause.]] Are these the examples you want to take to Italy? Let's give the Italians a chance to express themselves and understand. Then they will decide, because the people are sovereign. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u18	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred, with several reasons, by Senator Pagano and other senators (QP1), Senator La Pietra and other senators (QP2), referring to the bill n. 1845. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). (Senator Iannone gives the Presidency a declaration of intention to vote in favour of the approval of the question referred for a preliminary ruling which has not been registered.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u19	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1845, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Borghesi, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u20	Mr President, having been given the measure on Tuesday, the Commission has failed to complete its examination. We have held a short round of hearings, the general debate and we have dealt with the agendas. However, we are unable, as the Commission, to complete our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u21	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Borghesi's report, draft law No 1845, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the debate on the question of the preliminary ruling made it clear to those who wanted to follow it that the decree-law we are talking about today is really the fruit of a government that was born in August - as happened last August, among other things, with a negotiation that never ended - because only such a government could give birth to a hypothesis such as that which we are about to discuss today. A number of issues do not work with reference to this decree-law. I do not repeat what has already been said in the debate on the question referred by Senators Pagano and Malan, but we are faced with some anomalies which must remain in the proceedings. The first substantive question is that it is decided, in fact, on the day of the vote - it will be 20 September - through a decree-law, and this is already a rather unusual anomaly in a matter that is usually the subject of at least an exchange between all political forces. Not only is it a decree-law, but it is not even shared with oppositions. Our colleagues in the House, when they discussed it, told you in every way and could not, of course, be shared because it is the clearest and most plastic form of a lack of authority on the part of the Government in its dialogue with oppositions. Not being able to find a point of fall in a subject like this, that is, a date for the conduct of electoral consultations, I would say that is the best. Even then, coming to combine municipal, regional and other elections, which are political in nature, with the confirmed referendum, which is constitutional in nature, is the ultimate and I do not say of the abomination, but I really do not know who this might have come to mind and from the point of view not only legal but also of the opportunity. The constitutional referendums, from which world it is world, have always been very understood and well participated by the Italians, and all the governments have "put down the pens" taking them under the leg. This is how it is: Italians do not like to touch the Constitution without expressing their opinion. The fact that this is a referendum that may have a obvious outcome does not mean that it should not be treated with respect and not confused with the elections. It has been rightly said that putting together regional elections and referendums and campaigning in August is practically like putting together jam and anchovies. It's true and it's an uneatable, uncomfortable thing. Practically - as I said before - is the expression of the synthesis of what can come out of the twisted mediations between the 5 Stars, on the one hand, and the Democratic Party, on the other. I am not telling you, among other things, one thing that I think is obvious: you should know that the elections involve a collection of signatures and the holding of meetings. It is true that the number of signatures needed has been lowered, but the elections are not only taking place on 20 September - a date that is supposed to be the case, but in fact they are the result of preparatory work (this is not a regulation from a health point of view and anything else) in August; month in which I sincerely hope that the Italians will stay on holiday in Italy and do not deal with the electoral campaigns or perhaps confuse the election of the President of their region with a referendum of a confirmed character on the number of parliamentarians. It is true that tourism is being harmed, but above all it is a substantial contempt for the exercise of the right to vote. This is not a good step, because to believe that, in the end, we can also vote on vacation or in the vicinity of it is something altogether dangerous. No, it is more than dangerous: it is like believing that he has given himself a little to lose the exercise of democracy. In my opinion, the fact that we wanted to make a decree-law; that we had put together referendums and general elections; that we had spoken of a dies a quo, when we all know that it will be September 20; that we did not involve the political forces as a whole; that we thought that we could make the elections with the collection of signatures and the conduct of the electoral campaign in August, I believe that it is proven that the government has no intention of reasoning on the fundamental aspects of some basic democratic rules that are not even difficult to find. I can understand that sometimes you may have different ideas with regard to major issues, but in this case it was a fairly simple matter: an emergency issue on which to find an understanding of nature and general character. No, we have not been able to do that either, and this has resulted in a number of consequences for which everyone will then complain - so much so - the day after the vote, as if we could blame a choice made upstream of the fact that the result of the vote might not be positive, because the election campaign was carried out in August. How is it seasoned, then, in final terms? It is seasoned by the vote of confidence, which is the icing on the cake. So, while our colleagues in the House have made it clear that we are confident about a decree of this kind, the measure comes to the consideration of the Senate Chamber without even finishing the analysis of the amendments (about 200, from what I understood participating in the sitting in the Commission the other night). The measure arrives in this Chamber without a rapporteur and the Government has already indicated that it will put the question of trust. I believe that all this is incommentable, indeed not even incommentable; I would say that in the future someone, on some history book, will be able to write that the lowest point touched before something terrible was just that, because all this is frankly inadmissible, unvotable, inconceivable. I therefore insist that - in my opinion - only a government born in August could give birth to such an architecture. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u23	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u24	[[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, if you could avoid me from yelling, I would be very grateful. This measure shows that in Italy the electoral measures are established by the protempore majorities, not to safeguard and favour, but to undermine and violate the rights of political participation of citizens. This is not the first time and the present one is not the first majority to behave in this way either, but this is not an attenuating one. Much has already been said about the combination and I really agree with what has been said. I voted in favour of the preliminary ruling, but with all this I just want to stress that - in my opinion - the combination of a constitutional referendum with another round of voting, for the first time in the history of the Republic, is a dangerous precedent, made simply to say that the cut of parliamentarians is not discussed, it does nothing, it is a fundamental reform. On the other hand, I would like to add another question: the possibility for some parties to participate in the regional elections and I will give you a concrete example. Let's take Veneto, a region we all know. In Veneto the regional law provides for the presentation of lists and applications 12,000 signatures, which have been reduced to a third, therefore 4,000 signatures, divided into all Provinces, to be collected on closed lists and not on symbols. This means - for example - for Misto-Mù Europa, for the radicals, for the Greens, for whom you want, that the lists will have to be closed at the end of June, while the others will continue to negotiate candidates and collect signatures in July and August, obviously respecting the distances, using the masks, writing by hand, like the amanuenses of the Middle Ages, because we now do everything electronically, outside the collection of signatures. And since assembly cannot be done for health reasons, what should we do? Door-to-door? We ring the doorbells of the houses, obviously always with the authentication behind their backs and who knows if it lends itself? But how do you think of that? It's not that you don't notice, but that's how you decided. This rule is called: who is there, who is not there, is not there and will not be there. That's it. Actually, I believe that we will turn against each other, perhaps not immediately, but further in time. We had proposed everything - alternative methods, electronic signatures - but nothing was accepted. In fact, an authoritative member of the Democratic Party suggested to the House that, if it creates problems in August - in August people are on holiday - we close the signatures collection on July 31, so people are not on vacation. It's so easy! It sounded like the spot "easy.it," easy.it, easy.it!" that we all see on television these days. But, since it cannot be bad faith, is it incompetence? Does your colleague want to come with me to pick up a signature, ringing the doorbells of the houses? Or has he never done that in his life? I don't think he's ever legally signed an election in his entire life, otherwise such nonsense couldn't have said it. [[Applause.]] Once we pick up the signatures, always ringing the bells, are we done? No: you have to unleash dozens of militants and go around to find the certifications in the municipalities, who, in August, will not wait to open to make us the certifications. What do you want to talk about? Of an electoral law - how is it now fashionable to say - inclusive? No: this is a law for which those who managed to make some parliamentary Group catch in the Regions are exempted from collecting signatures; while those who behaved correctly, without changing many coats, and are simply excluded. To everything we add the cherry of the vote of trust. Senator colleagues, this week has been the typical example of how the Senate is now a simple letterhead. Not only have government communications been downgraded; not only has there been confidence yesterday on the bill of conversion of the decree-law, but there will be confidence today on the electoral law. I don't know what else I have to wait for. Maybe I have to wait for all of us, by SMS, to get the official announcement that we have actually passed to imperfect monocameralism, decided not by transparent vote, but by fact. We simply sign photocopies here, so much so that we don't even want to participate anymore. If you want to dissolve the Senate, have at least the courage to say it, to do it by law, to do something; instead it is done. It is really difficult, really difficult, to continue to defend the dignity of this Parliamentary Assembly. It will not interest anyone, but be careful, because sooner or later it can touch everyone. There is nothing more fragile than politics. The only stable thing I know is geography. I've seen so many of them come and go, but protecting the institutions is good for everyone. [[Applause]] The idea that now you also want to join the referendum in the regional elections I had never heard of it. For what? To save money? In short, if we cannot defend the institutional dignity of our institutions, why should the citizens do so? [[Applause]] They see ourselves despise our institutions and, then, why should they make the effort to appreciate them? Of course, I will not vote for confidence, as I have never voted for it, nor for this measure, but I believe that you have reached a point of no return and you are not even aware of the seriousness of what you will approve with confidence today. I feel sorry for you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u26	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u27	Mr President, I am speaking from this place because there is sufficient room.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u28	No, Senator Fantetti, if you don't, the De Poli vigilante is here and he's gonna fine us.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u29	FANTETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking as a result of the speeches by Mr Malan and Mr Pagano, as well as by other members of this Senate, to try to draw the attention of the Government and all of you to the particularly reprehensible effects it has on the political life and the exercise of the political rights of Italians abroad. It has been said that 4.5 million voters, out of a total of about 6 million Italians enrolled in AIRE, then officially resident abroad, will be called to vote on the referendum. But it has also been made clear that at least half of them will not actually be able to exercise it, because, being resident in areas of the planet, particularly in South and North America, where the pandemic is still in progress, a whole series of technical arrangements relating to the vote and referendum cannot be exercised and, therefore, the exercise of the vote cannot be allowed. I refer in particular to a note from the General Council of Italians abroad, which President Schiavone made available to all of us, including the Government, in which the technical modalities of the vote are enunciated that cannot be exercised in terms of the activities of the consulates, in terms of the printing of cards by the organized printers, in the different parts of the world, by the consulates general or in the services that the consulates should provide to voters abroad in the transport of ballots. I always point out that a cost has been provided for the state coffers (about 4.5 euros for the sending of voting cards, in addition to the cost of printing) and this is an absolute waste of money, because we already know that those postcards cannot be sent and that, once printed, they cannot be withdrawn. Therefore, those who will take responsibility for using public funds to sign these contracts - I think of the general consulates around the world, the printers who will not actually be able to print the cards or the post that they will not be able to deliver them - must know that all this is a waste of public money and is a violation of the political rights of Italians abroad, but it is only the last of a series. Unfortunately, in fact - as I have already said in this House - a devastating series of institutional defeats for Italians abroad has taken place in the current legislature, of which the political majority of the Government Count 1 and the political majority of the Government Count 2 all take responsibility. In the institutional landscape of Italians abroad there was - for example - a Committee for the issues of Italians abroad, which has always worked in previous legislation since it was established. Well, it has been abolished in this branch of Parliament, while the equivalent has not been abolished in the House of Deputies; therefore, it is a specific attack here, in the Senate Chamber. At that time, the President of the Senate's Foreign Affairs Committee said that he would be replaced by a survey of Italians abroad. I pointed out then - and I still point out - that it is shameful to imagine dealing with Italian issues abroad - which I repeat - is 10% of the Italian population, because 6 million AIRE members are that percentage. Well, it was thought to replace the Committee with an inquiry: about four hearings were held of people who were more or less aware of the matter, and that was the end. In the XVIII Legislature, the majorities that alternated have humiliated Italians abroad and their institutions: the Committee for the issues of Italians abroad not recreated, the infamous investigation, which among other things has stopped working for months already. I think - for example - of the deception that has been perpetrated against the General Council of Italians abroad: it was told at the beginning of the legislature that it would be much more important, because it would have had direct access to Parliament. This is to justify in part the reduction in the parliamentary representation of the foreign constituency, which I shall be discussing shortly. They were deluded, then, and then of course they were abandoned to themselves. Moreover, the note of the President of the General Council of Italians abroad on the impossibility of holding - for technical reasons - the referendum abroad has been completely non-existent, not taken into account; as have not been taken into account, over time, the proposals that came from that Council in the matter of amending the law of citizenship, modification of the law of the vote of Italians abroad. I mean, the CGIE wasn't considered. Similarly, an institute has been violated which, on the other hand, this Republic should make a great deal of use of; in the past enough has been done. I am referring to the Comites, the representation of Italians abroad at the level of each general consular district. Hundreds of assemblies - they are called Comites - elected by citizens residing abroad with a democratic vote every five years play their role, especially at local level, and are fundamental for the representation of local communities, but also for the better functioning of the consular network, because they act as a link between the governmental authority, the general consul, and the community. This beautiful institution of the Comites, which many envy us, was due to expire last year, after five years, provided by an ordinary law of the State. Well, the renewal of the Comites has not been allowed and has been moved to date - next year those who will live will see - even their renewal: an elected democratic institution, provided for by an ordinary law of the State, every five years, therefore widely predictable from a budgetary point of view [[Applause]] , has not been renewed. I'll keep going. The proposal, tabled at the beginning of the parliamentary term by myself and others elected abroad - but not only - to set up a bicameral committee was not taken into account. We took a ride to the Senate Presidency, then to the House Presidency. It is a proposal that has been put on a dead track, yet another humiliation against the political rights of Italians abroad. Honestly, we are disappointed and also sadly helpless at this point. Personally, last January, I filed an appeal for a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State. It is an institutionally a little aggressive - I confess - but destined to bring to the attention of the Constitutional Court the violation of the political rights of Italians abroad, with a decrease in representation, which - as has been reported again this morning - would foresee four senators representing 6 million people. [[Applause]] No democratic assembly in the world provides for this kind of proportionality. We are still awaiting the examination of the eligibility of the Constitutional Court. I therefore also denounce today, in this House, the situation and I repeat the fact that everyone assumes political responsibilities towards a crowd of our fellow citizens (the Italians abroad are 10% of the population); then we will see who is going around to claim merits and who, instead, will be rewarded for the consistency of the behaviour held. I repeat, I'm disappointed. We will of course vote against this measure and once again draw the attention of the Government and - specifically - the Undersecretary with delegation to respect the rights of Italians residing abroad. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u30	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are debating today includes two sets of problems - one of merit and one of method - but above all the loss of an opportunity and an opportunity. In this House we have debated several times, because of the coronavirus, also of the organization of the powers of the State and we have long shared - majority and opposition, therefore cross-cuttingly - the consideration for which to redesign post-Covid the powers of the State belongs to a favourable condition, transversally shared by both branches of Parliament. Indeed, there is no doubt that over the course of these months - in fact, not only in Italy - powers and functions have been redesigned in order and by virtue of a verticalization of the state functions. Therefore, as a better opportunity than the current one, in which we are facing the pandemic with determination, determination and I would say with very good results (as opposed to other states), to stop and open a constituent phase that also includes a revision of the number of parliamentarians, but within an organization of the powers of the organic and constitutionally defined state. I say this because it is one thing to expect Members to be cut off before this dramatic affair and something else to discuss upstream. I leave out the fact that those who then shared these same reasons of mine and would use the same arguments that I use, today will use different ones and I will listen very willingly. I stress this point because there are two orders of state here (and I look in the eyes of the representative of the Government). There is no doubt that this is the case and, therefore, we miss a double chance. On the one hand, there are those who believe that the next future state should organize itself on the basis of two pillars (a stronger executive and more authoritative presidents of the Region, in a sort of binomial not constitutionally planned, but in fact organized) and on the other who - like me even if I am not the only one - thinks that instead we should proceed towards a new tripolarization: consolidated legislative powers on the one hand, middle society strengthened on the other and, rather than the Governors, the mayors if we really want to work for a rebirth that coincides with a renaissance of the country. Mr President, allow me to make three points before I come to the conclusion. Those who read the measure will notice, in capital letters, six times the word "Covid". This means that the decree has been organized taking into account, and cannot be otherwise, an ongoing emergency. If that is the case, and it is not a consequence, I can think of a joke by the comic Guzzanti when he said that only by repeating the same mistakes is it certain that we are doing them perfectly, because we cannot even, Mr President and representative of the Government, put on our chessboard - and we have done it rightly - a controversy started with the French Government when it held the municipal elections in the heart of the pandemic and at the same time (it is my third and final consideration) to carry out a procedure that recalls a dramatic mistake made by the French Government that today is also admitted by President Macron. I leave out the question of collecting signatures. I belong to a party that has a great history but, also for personal reasons, I have lived mainly the next phase, so I know what it means to collect signatures, I know what it means to ask for self-certifications. For others this is a grammatical procedure from university text. For Emma Bonino, for those who speak to her and I do not know if for many others in this House the meaning of the operation of this mechanism is real. I therefore put it aside and come to the three points in the final proposal, which provides for the separation of the time limits for electoral consultations, of whatever order and degree they may be. in relation to referenda procedures. Firstly, Italy, if I recall correctly, adopted the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights in 1978. If a measure is taken, it must follow because failure to do so could be an unconstitutional reason for the rule, precisely because that pact provides for equal conditions in the information and expression of the vote. Today, the committee following that pact argues that this measure and this content is not dealt with by the rule under discussion today. Secondly, the consultations we are talking about meet different criteria, reasons and regulatory reasons. I quote one: in the referendum abstention is considered a way of expressing the will of the individual citizen but it is not so in the election. It is true that a form of censorship dating back to the immediate post-war period has been removed, but it is equally true that the failed vote is counted in the category of an ethical and moral disvalue. The referendum does not respond to this criterion, rather it overturns it, it overturns it. So putting together two factors of this nature is from the regulatory point of view very contradictory. Then there is, in conclusion, the final figure of Italian voters and electricians abroad. The number has been mentioned - four and a half million - but it has not been remembered that one and a half million of the latter live in South America and that, Mr President and representative of the Government, South America is closed. There are cities in lockdown and there are cities that have only started phase 2. What kind of campaign is going on? How do our fellow citizens vote from Buenos Aires, Rio de Janeiro, Panama? Is it an idle question or is it a question to which the Government owes an answer if we unify the two electoral procedures? Where the cities are in lockdown, the consulates are closed. If they're closed, how do they perform their duties? Where we have gone from lockdown to phase 2 - and I imagine and hope that we will immediately move on to the next phase, even if from the data I read about South America things are absolutely not the case - the offices have recently been reopened and have little staff. There is also a lack of personal-electoral update and we are in the middle of June, so I imagine they have to carry out a discreet back work. I would add that there are indispensable side-services that do not depend on ministerial procedures; everything about printers, mail and air transport is the child of a pandemic condition that can evolve up or down. Who is in a position today to judge how far Brazil can take, for example? If these are the conditions and the rule says that the information campaign must begin at least sixty days before the referendum is held, who is able - and I call on the Government - to ensure that a common sense rule, even before the law, can be guaranteed? Hence my consideration that the two procedures should be separated. It is enough to re-read a sentence concerning the difference between common sense and common sense contained in the XXXII chapter of the "Promessi Sposi" (Promessi Sposi). Manzoni says that if in something the memory of the time, that is, of then, agreed, it was in the attestation that absolutely nothing was done. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u32	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u33	Mr President, representative of the Government, today we are debating an issue which frankly leaves us appalled by the content. Yesterday in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs I tried to explain that there are no institutional reasons for convening the local elections on 20 September. There is only one political will to transfer the tensions of the majority to an institution contained in our Constitutional Charter, the constitutional referendum. The aim is to prevent the effects of a possible non-positive outcome of the regional elections from manifesting itself on the holding of the majority and the government. If this were not the case, we should not be afraid of the ruling of the electoral body, so we could easily postpone the election by one or two weeks. It is said, however, that there is a danger of the pandemic returning. The government therefore certainly has secreted documents - now it is not new - and knows that 21 September in the country will return the pandemic. We must therefore vote on 20 September because on 21 September there will be a return of the pandemic. Yesterday I listened to the problem of schools in the Commission. Another thing that I appreciated from the National Secretary of the Democratic Party and the new proposal to vote in places that are no longer schools: good idea and, therefore, the problem of the school is another nonsense. Then there is the theme of money, you have to save money. Now frankly, if, in order to safeguard a dictate of our Constitutional Charter, the issue is brought down economically, I think you could have saved who knows how much money in many other ways. It becomes a ridiculous and propagandistic contradictory. At that point, in fact, I could reply that if you wanted to save money you could spend less money on the staff of President Conte (the most expensive in the history of the Republic) or on the staff of the Foreign Minister Di Maio (also the most expensive in the Republic, also spoke about the transmission \"Le Hyene"). Let us be clear then; that is not the theme: the theme is instrumental. I am sorry to contradict Senator Bressa, but yesterday in the Commission I did not get a chance to reply. It is not only a political factor; the referendum is an institution and a bulwark in defence of the Constitution. Professor Mortati in the constituent debate, in Sub-Committee, explains it in an exemplary way: it is a tool built to defend minorities, oppositions; before a possible majority, whether it be three-quarters or absolute, it gives the instrument to the opposition to appeal to public opinion and voters. Someone turned that instrument to protect opposition into a majority instrument to share or not the choices of the government and it went wrong. Let's think of the referendum of 2016: it was believed that the Italian people would share that institutional reform and the Italian people contradicted that outcome and in fact the Renzi Government fell. I don't want to insist. I turn to the Democratic Party, which is a bulwark of defending the Constitutional Charter: we want to pollute the outcome with an artifice of having the local elections and the constitutional referendum convened on the same day. It is clear that the decision not to go to the polls is also part of the spirit of the referendum, dear senators. So if I do not want to vote that morning, I do not go to the polls, with the same scheme and the same spirit as the repealing referendum; it is identical, it simply changes the quorum. In the case of the repealing referendum, when I go to vote I help to reach the quorum and, if they win the yes, the law is repealed; but the spirit for which I do not go to vote is the same. Instead, I am going to vote because I must express my preference in terms of local elections, of the mayor or of the president of the Region. It is an artifice and you are taking responsibility for polluting the outcome, no matter what it is. It is easy for me to say that the Democratic Party has voted three times against the parliamentary reduction; but this is not the issue. It is now up to the Italian people to have the credit. The parties also divided themselves across the board: there are those who are in favour and those who are against. But this, thank God, is part of the salt of democracy. The issue is: why should we pollute this outcome and why should we subject the referendum institution to the wishes of the majority? Why do we have to fall into this trap? I'm sorry there's hardly any MP from the Movimento 5 Stars, except for one of our heroic fellow senators. I would like to review some statements by members of the 5 Stars during the 2016 referendum. I would say that we are almost embarrassed by the change of ideas, but now is the season of sudden changes; one does not do in time to say something that the next day you deny it. Senator De Petris yesterday in the Commission also pointed out that there was a debate on the date shift. I would like to remind the House that there was also a tragic situation there, even if limited to a couple of Regions: the earthquake of 2016, which led the Government to postpone the date of the referendum, with a whole cross-cutting debate, from the 5 Star Movement to LEU, against this decision of the Government. The Senator of LEU De Petris even accused the Government of adopting the scheme of the tip law: we vote on December 4 and make a budget law to win public opinion. Do you remember? This was also said by Senator Morra (who I do not see in the Chamber); he also accused the Government, saying to stop these laws that serve to create customers towards the public and therefore to win, with a budget law, the consent to the referendum. Mr President, at the time Mr Di Maio accused the President-in-Office of the Council of being a fraud and a provocateur of the people. Then there was the classic accusation that was made at that time and that obviously today it has fallen into prescription, dear colleagues of the 5 Stars: "President Renzi, you are not elected by the people!." Think how much sympathy there are on the law of counterfeiting. Finally, again Minister Di Maio, going against the President of the Council (today his ally), compared him to Pinochet because he did not give the opposition the opportunity to use that instrument to defend the minority. Times have changed; within three to four years times change and alliances change. Today Minister Di Maio in a national newspaper wonders, saying that the PD has changed. No, the PD has not changed, in full respect of its mentis form and its values: the PD has remained the same, shared or not. You have changed, dear friends of the 5 Stars; today that you are in the Government you have totally rejected all your demands. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u34	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u35	Mr President, I would like to remind everyone - first of all to myself - of the context in which we are having this debate, because I have not heard much of it in the speeches. Fortunately, we have come out of the most critical phase, but we have not yet come out of an absolutely exceptional situation. I remember that because this decree must also be included in this context. Allow me a brief digression: the boys of maturity began yesterday an absolutely new and different examination from what we have always witnessed. In Lombardy since February, and throughout Italy two weeks later, we closed schools: all children, boys and girls, teenagers were at home. I remember because it seems that at this moment, talking about the elections, we depart from the dramatic situation of an absolutely emerging situation that we have experienced in our country. All the boys and girls are experiencing this exciting moment unfortunately in conditions completely different from those in which they thought they could measure themselves, but it is still a very important and passing moment and, therefore, I take advantage of it to make my closeness to them feel. Returning to the debate we are having, we are talking about this. Even the exams of maturity, which fortunately take place in the presence, will be completely different from those that have lived each of us: there are no written tests; there is only the oral test and, as we know, there are their teachers. I have made this premise because this decree must include it in this situation and frankly in the speeches I have heard I did not understand if we want to arrive at a date for regional elections; then there is the whole topic of the referendum. I say this because the debate is about when this date should fall. Yesterday, undersecretary Variati in the Commission told us that the government thought it would be better on 6 or 13 September because it interfered less with the beginning of the school year and considered it a better date. In order to meet a series of requests from the oppositions who asked instead of going further, we arrived at the date of September 20. There was therefore no clear desire for closure with regard to a reasoning to be done together, but you also know that, within the reasoning that there is, for example, among the parties or forces in Parliament, the reasoning that the Regions make is intertwined, because there were Presidents of the Region who were pushing to vote as soon as possible - there were those who said to vote even in July - and also political forces that today say that instead we should go further. We have therefore thought about these dates and we have arrived at this date, not because it is the magical date but because, in view of a series of pushes, it seemed that it could be more appropriate also to meet the requests made. Sooner or later, however, regional elections must be held. They were to be held in May and the constitutional referendum was to take place on 29 March. In this exceptional situation, I believe that, however, we must put ourselves in a position to have these democratic pronouncements carried out. Then there is a whole debate that I heard about the problems of collecting signatures and an election campaign in August. So I would say that I do not believe that this August will be as normal as those we have lived in all the past years of our country: many companies will continue to work and I think that there will be a political activity that however will be different. The country that closed for the Covid-19 will have to imagine a different August from the others, with the hope that in any case it will resume the tourism and everything we expect will be August in some way different. So, even focusing on these difficulties, I would not consider August as the usual August that we have lived to date. To return to the measure, after reminding us that we are not talking about decisions that we take in normal times, I would like to point out that this decree postpones the ordinary deadlines for the conduct of the electoral consultations planned in 2020, extends the principle of election day to the conduct of the constitutional referendum (and on this I have heard many interventions and much concern) and then reduces to a third the number of subscriptions required for the submission of lists and nominations to municipal or regional elections. Let us examine the main objections I have heard. On the date of the elections, as I said, there is no magic date: that proposal did not want to be an arrogance of the majority, which imposed a choice date for some reason, but it was a mediation between different pressures. That was it. We all know that, we read the papers and we know the positions. The issue that has been raised with regard to the fact that the election day comes to involve a constitutional referendum too, I have listened very carefully to it, because I do not underestimate and underestimate the concerns that have been expressed, which electorate is being called upon and how this attention can be there. Here too, however, the choice that has been made is not unconstitutional, so I believe that the question of constitutionality first discussed was not to be presented; but this is my opinion and of course everyone makes the choices he believes. Here too, however, we are not talking about a normal situation. On the one hand, we all worry about school. Then, with regard to the fact that we are talking about two democratic expressions - the referendum and the regional and administrative elections - that we have moved in this exceptional situation, I do not think that this is a very serious tear, as I have heard in some very vibrant speeches. I think it is a choice determined by specific and particular conditions, although I have listened very carefully to the debate that has taken place. Yesterday in the Commission we learned, from the words of the Undersecretary Variati, that the way in which this decree is supposed to carry out the elections (the timing and the modalities including, for example, the fact that they take place in two days) comes from evaluations of the Technical and Scientific Committee, which are therefore applied in this area. I have heard a lot of concern about the vote of Italians abroad. Now, the whole debate on the importance of the Comites and what can be done about Italians abroad has a great dignity and I think we should pay close attention to these issues. I also understand the concern of those who say that with this law the representatives of Italians abroad will be very few. On the other hand, I understand the problem of voting a little less, because, even though the theme of the pandemic will be considered differently depending on the different realities and continents, there is no doubt that the voting methods imagined for what concerns Italians abroad do not foresee assemblies, therefore, it will be a danger of a different type. I'm gonna finish. I am glad that an agenda has been accepted by the Government requesting the help of the municipalities to provide for voting arrangements that affect as little as possible on school issues. This is because we all feel the need for the school to resume and reopen. I would also like to address my colleagues from various political forces whom I have listened carefully and of which I have much respect for this battle, passionate, convinced and very civilized that they have done on this constitutional referendum; an important political and ideal battle. I want to say that I have very much appreciated the tones and ways, even if I see them more connected to what has been voted and its object, that is to reduce the parliamentarians themselves, than to a direct opposition, to this decree-law which, in reality, only talks about holding elections. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u37	Mr President, Mr Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Senator Pinotti that we are not missing the context in which we are living: we are living in an exceptional state and we have been seeing for months the abuse of the urgent decree, the abuse of the question of trust, the misuse of the decrees of the Presidency of the Council, the marginalization of the Parliament of the Republic and the alteration of the balance between the powers of the State. We have seen that yesterday the President-in-Office of the Council considered it appropriate to make a mockery of his presence here in the House of the 'communications' which would have required a vote, so as not to test himself and not to put this House to the test of its majority on a clearly sensitive and obvious issue such as the use of resources from Europe to deal with the economic emergency that we are already experiencing and that we will probably live with even greater intensity in the near future. We are therefore not missing the context, I assure you, Senator Pinotti, precisely for this reason, because we are twisting the constitutional rules, because we are living in a state of exception, common sense and love of the Constitution would like to have the rifts and the forcings dosed and limited to the emergency. I am a lover of Carl Schmitt and I am not shocked that power is concentrated in the hands of those who legitimately hold it at an exceptional time; I complain that our Constitution does not provide for an exceptional state, but it is in things, it is part of the reality that such moments can come and that in these moments the Constitution is actually frozen in some of its essential parts. But let us not exaggerate colleagues: we are creating a series of serious and worrying precedents that today have a justification and may not have it tomorrow. Forcing the rules of the game, forcing constitutional prerogatives where there is no health emergency that justifies such forcings is dangerous and there is no health emergency that justifies the combination of a political vote and a vote on a constitutional text. It is true that the Constitution does not prevent it, it does not explicitly prohibit it, but it is equally true that constitutional custom goes in this direction: never before today has the combination of two different votes been hypothesized and formalized. In 2006, the center-right proposed to the electoral body a constitutional reform that bore the name of President Calderoli. In that year it was voted for important local elections (in the City of Rome, Naples and Milan) and those two votes were not merged. It was voted before for the administration and shortly after for the referendum, because since the times of Roman law the principle of drugs for saturam has been considered an essential principle. They do not mix votes of a different nature, because one fatally pollutes the other. The political vote is a sentimental vote, the vote on the Constitution should be a rational vote. To coincide the two votes means to pollute the constitutional vote and to pollute a vote on the Constitution, moreover on an essential part of the Constitution - Parliament, representative democracy, parliamentary function - is dangerous and alters its results. It is clear that, by matching the two votes, the figure of turnout is altered (it is true that there is no quorum, but that figure will have a political value), the result is definitely altered (it is also a vote, that for regional and administrative partial, not homogeneous at national level, therefore the result is altered unevenly) and an essential right of the citizen to be duly informed is denied, because anyone of us who has sufficient use of the world knows very well that by making the two campaigns coincide (that policy for the renewal of six regional administrations and that for the constitutional referendum) the second will be fatally suborn from the first: we will talk about political issues, about faction issues, we will talk about people not about principles. The constitutional vote will in fact be cancelled and the possibility for citizens to be properly informed will be cancelled, thus denying that principle, dear to President Einaudi, of knowing how to act. Added to this is a non-marginal aspect: Italians abroad in many districts (North and South America) will not be able to exercise their right: they will not be informed; they will not be able to carry out electoral campaigns; the consulates will not be able to ensure those essential services so that the right to vote can be realized. If this seems normal to you, it doesn't seem normal to me. I challenge my colleagues in the majority to stand up in this House and take the floor to say that I have said falsehoods, namely that the two votes do not pollute, that the two votes do not keep their own lives and can be easily matched. It is also not provided for in the Election Day Act. A law was made which provided for the possibility of merging so many votes, but all political votes, for reasons of simplification and cost reduction. It is possible to combine the vote for municipalities, regions, provinces, Parliament, even for the European Parliament, but it is not possible - and the election day law does not foresee it - to merge a vote on the Constitution. Why, Senator Pinotti? Because they are two votes of a different nature and it has not come to anyone's mind to set such a principle. Amendments were then tabled but were rightly rejected because they would have created a worrying and wrong precedent and because they would have gone against the spirit and logic of the Constitution and against the spirit and letter of constitutional judgments (such as that of 2000 which Mr Pagano referred to in this House). Citizens have the right to express themselves on the Constitution in an aseptic context and in accordance with principles of rationality; aseptic context and principles of responsibility that cannot exist if on the same day they vote for political elections. So, frankly, the outcome of a democratic vote is being altered and the result of a constitutional referendum is being put in hand, tampering with it in fact, and what is most disconcerting is that it is being done to support the electoral calculation of a majority party. I am not the one who reveals this to you, because you know it better than I do; we are talking about it and we are talking about it quietly between colleagues of majority and opposition. The combination is dear to the Movimento 5 Stars which, wrongly or rightly, I cannot say, has convinced itself that the vote for the referendum will be partly transferred to their lists for regional elections. Frankly, violating a democratic vote, altering its results, creating an illegitimate precedent from the constitutional point of view to guarantee an extra fist vote to a majority party without the consent of all oppositions to me seems a force worthy of note. I am sure, ladies and gentlemen, that at this moment, in reverse parts, you would not be in this House: you would be on the roof of this Palace branding copies of the Constitution and shouting at the villainy of democracy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u38	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u39	Mr President, we had not even signed up to speak at this stage of the debate because we could not even imagine that on a measure of this kind (i.e. an electoral measure which historically, by its nature, has always been agreed between the majority and the opposition, between the Government and the political forces) was preparing for the imposition of the vote of confidence and therefore the impossibility of discussing the amendments that we had tabled. That is why, at this stage of the general debate, I had to address you, Mr President, to put me on the list of those entitled to speak, given that it was our intention to address this measure point by point at the time when it was possible to amend it. Surprise. I'm running out of time. I have a glass ball with which I read the future, a very near future. I remember a movie in which the protagonist can see the future thirty seconds earlier: I went ahead and a little more. In a few minutes, at the end of the general discussion - there is still a colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars who must speak, last of course - we will see if I am wrong, the representative of the government will come and, the glass ball tells me, he will ask for a vote of confidence. The Government will put the question of trust on the date of the elections: it has never been seen in the history of Republican Italy, never! [[Applause]] Why haven't you ever seen him? Why, what is the supreme moment of the exercise of the democratic rights of citizens? The vote. I understand that by now it is a waste, I understand that it is no longer fashionable and that, in order not to go to the vote, we can invent any, but we had not yet even managed to prevent the debate on the date. And why are we against voting? And here I have another glass ball: does the decree provide for three months? The glass ball tells me that the government will choose the first useful Sunday, in September, when the tourist activities are still underway, when still, going back thirty days, that is, the date on which the lists are presented, people are at sea. Do you understand? I have great respect for the intelligence of Casalino and his associates, but you can't reduce everything to a bleak calculation of opportunities. When can we not do too much campaigning? When can we benefit from Covid-19? Because this is what it is about: a bizarre use of an Italian tragedy for political purposes! [[Applause]] Who said it would be worse in October than in September? Perhaps the 450 useless experts, who have told us everything and the opposite of everything, who still have to explain to us whether the masks serve or do not serve, who still have to tell us whether the asymptomatics are able to infect or not, but who meanwhile take advantage of this tragedy for an endless series of television presences and now, even, not only to make a decree as they want, but to impose it with the vote of confidence. Perhaps you do not have the majority to beat our amendments? Or are you ashamed to show, for a time not too narrow, that you are committing unprecedented abuse? Mr President, you see, there is a possibility of joining the referendum, but this would be less serious, even if this is a fact without any precedent, given that there have been several times in Italy when there have been consultations on the Constitution or the confirmed referendums, but never in conjunction with other elections. I am sure that the constituent Fathers, who did not need to write it, are turning into their graves, because they could never have thought that a government would combine a passage as fundamental as a confirmation referendum with a partial election in Italy, which is even more serious than the possibility of imagining an amalgamation with a general election, because this will inevitably mean that in some regions the percentage of voters will be 60-70 percent and in other regions it will be - even in this case I have the glass ball - less than 40%. Want to bet? And I kept my distance: it's going to be 10-15-20 percent. However, there will be a considerable difference, falsifying a result which, on the other hand, peacefully will be in favour of confirming that rule, but which had to be so by choice of citizens and not by a game of cheating on the part of the Government. I, who will vote yes to that referendum, am ashamed to have to do so in conditions of non-equality with the rest of the citizens of other regions. Mr President, I would like my glass ball to explode, that I was wrong, that from here to a few minutes I should be denied, for example by my colleague who will speak immediately after me, who will instead tell me about the goodness of this measure, but will not explain to me why there is a need for a vote of confidence. He will have to tell us and not stating as a reason the fact that in the House we have extended the debate by two days, preventing who knows what. That is part of the democratic game; it is not part of the democratic game to make sure that decisions such as these are not the prerogative of majority and opposition. Mr President, we in the House have been forced to light a beacon on this measure. Without the two days of filibustering, that is, of interventions one after the other, we would not have noticed, because communication would have wrapped everything. And why did we in the House - and so early, even in this case with the glass ball, the objections of the majority - have to light this reflector? Because it has never been seen that an election date like this, under these conditions, is not preceded by a formal or informal consultation with the opposition forces. It's never been seen. The responsibility lies entirely with the Government and what does it want to achieve? I said this earlier, but I say it quietly now, with greater clarity: it wants the election campaign to be a formality, that it cannot be carried out. When Conte went on television, what is the need for candidates to go there? What is the need for parties, too, when Casalino organizes television presences? All right, if you want to do them on the 15th of August, they're telling us; do the meetings on the beach. But if Salvini goes to the beach, for five years they will blame him for going to the beach. This is the other ridiculous thing: they force us to campaign on August 15th, but then it's ridiculous if you do it on the beach. [[Applause.]] I mean, we don't have to campaign, so that the attempt to use coronavirus as a propaganda tool remains in our ears, transforming a tragedy into a miserable utility for a government that is afraid of the popular vote. [[Applause.]] A government without a programme, without popular support, without a future, however, and I am sure of that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u40	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u41	Mr President, Senators and fellow Senators, members of the Government, I should like to say a few words to Senator Sacconi (who I no longer see in this House), who accuses us of having changed our minds. Throughout my life, since I was a child, I've learned that changing my mind can be a good thing. My grandmother also told me that changing my mind is a way to learn. [[Applause.]] I would say that on the fundamentals we have not changed anything, because we have a government programme that we are implementing with the current majority. So on the fundamentals we keep our classic positions. [[Applause.]] To Senator La Russa I respond that the dialogue with the opposition was there, given the delay with which this measure arrived at the Senate, just at the end of the possibility of converting it into law. Therefore, a great dialogue with the oppositions was carried out in the Chamber of Deputies. But let us come to the content of the measure today before the House, which exceptionally postpones, in the light of the current health emergency, the normal deadlines set out in the current legislation for the conduct of the electoral consultations scheduled for 2020. The consultations concerned by the measure are the supplementary elections for the Chamber and the Senate, the elections of the municipal and circumscription councils, the elections of the provincial councils and the Presidents of the Provinces and the elections for the renewal of the regional councils and for the election of the President of the Regions with ordinary statute. It also provides for the application of the principle of election day, also for the purpose of holding a referendum on the constitutional draft law which provides for a reduction in the number of parliamentarians. The measure comes from various needs, which I would like to remind the critics of this measure briefly, but I would like to start this intervention also by citing a dangerous precedent which has not been given due importance in these days and which should make us reflect on the importance of postponing, in the terms that have been decided, the electoral consultations. The previous one concerns the French local elections last March: the French, at the beginning of the pandemic, decided to go on the same, although they had - as you know - a double-shift system, with the result that they took the first round and then were forced to freeze; something never happened. [[Applause]] I remind all forgetful that we too have the double-round electoral system for many of the municipalities that will vote and also for the Tuscany Region. What would have happened if, following the French example, we too had decided to vote quickly and furiously? How would we handle the situation in the event of a blockade due to the outbreak between the first and second rounds of elections? Who would have been entrusted with the task of administering those municipalities that would not have made the ballot? To previous administrations? Or to commissioners? And doing the second round, after weeks and weeks, couldn't it have altered the electoral balance and affected the vote? Of course, this is one of the requirements that we try to resolve with this measure, but in the newspapers and in so many statements we always talk about only one thing: the date of the vote. Colleagues and colleagues, let us make it clear that the date of the elections is not written in this measure and that election day is not indicated. A window is indicated and it is within this window that it is desirable, both for organizational issues, both for cost issues, and for issues related to the beginning of the school year, that a shared date of the elections be identified, the so-called election day. This, as you all know, could be September 20th. This date has aroused a number of moods - you have all said so - but we also know that no date will find a unanimous consensus of all the institutional actors, parties and referendum committees involved. As regards the referendum in particular, it is good to remember - as the Undersecretary Variati, whom I thank for the work he has done - that the move to the electoral window of the referendum had already taken place with the decree-law cure Italy, and that this measure does not intervene on the new referendum window already established there. It is not forbidden, however, by any law to hold this referendum in the elections of Municipalities and Regions; the only prohibition continues to concern the amalgamation between repealing referendums and general elections. However, this union - if there is to be - must not be considered a precedent, but a choice due to the current emergency situation we are in. The dates envisaged for the elections also necessarily take account of the guidelines expressed by the Technical and Scientific Committee, which, given that it cannot be determined whether or not there will be a resumption of virulence, has however found that, since Covid-19 is an agent of the category of influenza viruses, it is conceivable that it can reactivate with the lowering of temperatures. It therefore considered it appropriate, in addition to extending the operations also to Monday, so not only on Sunday, that the whole of the elections be exhausted by September. The voting window indicated in the decree-law then goes already in the direction, requested by the oppositions, to move the date of the elections later. There were therefore no pre-emptive closures against the oppositions. There is also another requirement that concerns the protection of the health not only of citizens but also of the members of the electoral seat. People, in fact, enter the seat, vote, withdraw the electoral card and leave, while the president and the scouts stay there for hours and days, in a normally relatively small space, which is usually a classroom. There is, therefore, an objective risk that must be addressed, and that is why a specific standard has been introduced that provides for a health and safety protocol, which will obviously also depend on the evolution of the epidemic. If, in fact, we find ourselves - as we all hope - out of the pandemic in September in all the Italian regions or almost, it is clear that we can have a simpler protocol, a lighter protocol. If, on the other hand, we are in a more complicated situation, the protocol will have to raise the level of safety in order to protect first and foremost the components of the seat. Otherwise, we run the risk of not finding the people who are willing to go and be scouts and seat presidents. Finally, there is another requirement that the measure addresses, which concerns the collection of signatures. The decision to reduce signatures for local elections by two thirds does not contradict the decision to postpone voting terms. We are not in a normal situation to allow such activity in the ordinary way even in the immediate future without fear or concern. The collection of signatures is potentially a core of assembly even today that we are in phase 2, and however there is a specific attention, suggested by scientists, compared to the assemblies because it is enough any episode absolutely not wanted to potentially provoke a resumption of the diffusion. We live in a non-ordinary situation and within the process of formation of the lists, which provides for the authentic signature of the subscription, we must intervene in this direction In conclusion, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are approving today is a concrete way of protecting the exercise of the right to vote, and therefore our democracy and our institutions, in an extraordinary time which is what we are living through. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u42	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u43	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that I have spoken in the Senate. [[Applause]] I've spent my life in local government for so many years, facing various election campaigns, so I know what it's like to be campaigning, collecting signatures, compiling lists. I must tell you that what the government had led since the decree that bears the date of April 20 last was the emergency. Only the emergency was able to allow the Government to extend its powers by three months (in other words, all powers as the current one has not been and is not an extension, i.e. limited to a limited number of urgent measures, but it is an extension), maintaining the full powers of the bodies of the Regions and the Municipalities. Only a very serious situation of national health emergency could make this happen, along the lines of what is contained in the decree and of the measure under consideration (not surprisingly, it was first pointed out that within very few articles the word Covid can be found written for as many as six times). Allow me to say that it is not true that the Government has closed itself in a lack of dialogue, because the very long work in the House has been accompanied by a desire for dialogue and convergence, as in part happened on some important aspects of the provision that is now in the attention of the Senate. Unfortunately, however, the time has been too long and there has also been at some point, especially on the part of the Brothers of Italy in the House (they know it), a obstructive action that has caused the times to expand. I remember that the regions would have liked to vote as early as 26 July. In order for the Regions to be able to vote on this date (with their electoral laws - let us never forget - for which they are autonomous, because, as a result of Article 122 of the Constitution, the State cannot impose different rules on the regional electoral system) they would have had to publish the relevant decree in the Official Regional Bulletin on 27 May. This could not be the case not so much for this decree-law which was published on 20 April, but for the fact that the Chamber of Deputies could not find the quadrature, despite the fact that the dialogue was important. I remind you that the electoral window for the regionals has been made homogeneous with respect to the window for the administrative ones, when it was not so; the collection of the signatures has been brought to a third party, among other things with a norm of type yielding towards the Regions, because, it is clear, if a Region does not accept, it does not accept point, because the electoral law is regional. I appreciated the cry of pain from the benches of this House by Senator Bonino; I am sure that such an authoritative voice can only be heard for proper reflection. However, I would remind you that in all regions those who have council groups must not collect signatures to participate in regional elections. In Tuscany the signatures must be collected, but they are ten signatures, if there is a Council Group. In Campania and Puglia, it is enough that there is a group in Parliament so that it is not necessary to collect signatures. In Marche, under the relevant electoral law, it is enough to have a seat in the Italian Parliament in the last parliamentary term or even a seat in the European Parliament not to collect signatures. I start quickly towards the conclusion. Avoiding disadvantage positions... [[Comments of Senator La Russa]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u45	Senator La Russa, let the government representative respond.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u46	VARIATIONS, Undersecretary of State for the Interior. I was explaining the rules that belong to regional autonomy, on which the state cannot and must do nothing. I was reminding you that there is also a position that we have agreed to in the House and that is expressed in paragraph 2 of article 1-a, where it is said that for the electoral and referendum consultations of the year 2020, the provisions of article 4 of law 28 of 2000 for the par conditio, apply so as to avoid positions of disadvantage compared to access to the media and for political communication during the electoral and referendary campaigns in relation to the epidemiological situation. Translated, this means that, for example, we must take into account the fact that the outgoing governors had a great visibility during the period of Covid while the other possible candidates were obviously at home and could not even move. This must be taken into account in the rules to be laid down under the powers laid down in Article 4 of Law No 28. (at 11.51 a.m.) (Following CHANGES, Undersecretary of State for the Interior). It is there, in the House, that the election day was born, that was not reported in the original decree of the Government. Why? Because in this situation, even if someone says that the Technical and Scientific Committee is incapable (everyone has his own ideas) it is clear that the choices make politics but the Government has felt to hear the opinion of the Technical and Scientific Committee which, for the criterion of maximum precaution, despite a virus still largely unknown but belonging to the coronavirus family, therefore to the family of influenza viruses, has advised the policy - which must make the choices - to make sure that the elections take place no later than September. The elections are no small thing because there are certainly 18 million voters in the regional elections, which in part, of course, coincide with the 6.2 million involved in the local elections in a complex of 1,134 municipalities, and then there was the referendum. Now, it is not even at all questionable whether the referendum is a bulwark of democracy, which even represents a fundamental right of minorities even more than the majority. There is no debate on this, but we are in this cursed and hopefully the only situation. The so-called decree cures Italy, then converted into the law that was remembered, fixed the window of the referendum from June 14 to November 22, but to think of calling citizens to the polls twice in the autumn, it seemed to us a wrong thing, for this part-session. I will conclude later on by talking about the issue of voting abroad. Attention, however: the Government, in the House, and I feel authorized to say so here in the Senate Chamber, has accepted an agenda, in fact of the minorities of the House, with which it has committed itself. The legislative measure before us provides for elections windows and that the first Sunday useful - also for regionals - is on 20 September. In fact, the window starts from September 15th but the first Sunday is, in fact, September 20th. Moreover, I repeat that the decision on the date of the regional vote belongs to the Regions, not to the State. The legislative measure before us does not set the date of the elections, set the procedures and set the two days. In this regard, instead of one day, there is a return to the past for obvious needs dictated, also in this case, by infectious virulence. However, it is the government that decides, which will do so in a very short time, taking into account what it has heard in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. Too bad, but it is a pity - I say it with deep conviction - that we could not have had a proper debate in the Commission and in the Senate House, because we could have enriched the legislative measure further. Unfortunately, time is not enough and we cannot make it go away because of the terrible situation that this could cause. With regard to the vote of Italians abroad, Mr President, there will be the greatest attention. In fact, if it is true that, on the one hand, our compatriots abroad vote by correspondence, but there is an electoral campaign to be guaranteed and then there are the transfers of the plichi from the consulates to our country; delicate issues, which we will then see in September, that in some countries that are experiencing an acute moment can also have disturbances - let's call them this - on public services. The Government, both inside and through a positive dialogue between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, is facing an organization to ensure the vote of our fellow countrymen abroad for referendarian consultation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u49	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Government's reply came to an end and, having already pointed out that this issue is always a risky one, in accordance with Rule 96 of our Rules of Procedure, I would ask you not to move on to the examination of the articles. Since there has been no request for electronic voting, as usual, I would ask that we proceed immediately by show of hands.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u50	Pursuant to Rule 96 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per Group may speak. As there are no requests for intervention, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal not to proceed to the examination of the articles, tabled by Senator Calderoli. I declare the vote open. TARICCO (PD). I'm asking to talk. [[Comments.]] Actually, we were already in the vote. I have already declared the vote open. [[Comments.]] There is no point in making proposals. Come on, talk. [[Protests.]] Minister, I'm not talking to you. You don't have to teach me anything. Do you understand? Sit down. Minister, sit down. [[He lives Protests.]] There was a request, I asked if anyone wanted to intervene. He asked to intervene, like we usually do. Please intervene. [[Comments.]] TARICCO (PD). Thank you, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You are the only one who has the floor, because I had already declared the vote open. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u51	Thank you, President. I want to take advantage of these very few seconds to say something.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u52	I give you two minutes, because I had declared the vote open and I do not want to exploit anything. Speak two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u53	[[Comments]] TARICCO (PD). Look, I just want to... [[Comments]] It's a bolgy, it's not a Senate Chamber. I just want to say that I believe that continuing to create a condition in this House which is what we are living through, which is basically games that nothing... [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u54	So I declare the vote open. Playing games in the Chamber doesn't make any. I declare the vote open. Game doesn't make any. [[Comments]] I declare the vote open. Who is in favour of non-passage? I declare the vote closed. It seems to me that the failure to move on to the articles is approved. [[Live Protests]] Retest has been requested. Close the doors. [[Comments]] Who is in favour of not switching to articles? I declare the vote open. [[Protests]] I don't feel anything. Please provide the tablets in the stands. Secretary Senators provide tablets in the stands. The doors are locked, I said. The doors are also locked in the stands. So, do they have all the tablets? Please, we're waiting for everyone to have tablets in the stands, otherwise you can't vote for the counter. [[Protests.]] Do they all have them? Please, the doors must also be locked in the stands; it is only to bring the tablets. [[Comments.]] So, are we good? [[Comments.]] Not yet? [[Comments. Protests.]] I declare the vote open again, if you have all the tablets. [[Comments.]] I can't hear anything if you talk outside the microphone. [[Brusio.]] Do you have the tablet? Senators quaestors have to verify, when the doors are closed, if someone accesses closed doors in the stands as well as... [[Protests.]] If those guys weren't up there, they have to go. CHORO OF VOICES. Honesty! Honesty! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senators The quaestors tell me the doors were all locked. [[Comments. Protests.]] I have already declared the vote open. If everyone voted, because I understand that three votes are missing in the gallery... PRAYER. I'm asking you to talk about the order of business. We are in the vote, so there is no order of business. [[Protests.]] You keep screaming and I don't hear anything, then. [[Comments.]] There are no reports. I declare the vote closed. Keep screaming and I can't hear anything. Put on the masks! I declare the result of the counter-test: [[Senators present 208 Senators voting 207 Majority 104 Favorables 102 Contrars 105]] The Senate doesn't approve. (see Annex B). CHORO OF VOICES. Shame!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u55	I ask you to speak, if the House will allow me to do so. [[Happy comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u56	Colleagues, if this noise continues, I'll suspend the session. Everyone gets back to their place. Assemblages are not possible. I invite the quaestor senators to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u57	[[Protests.]] I call Senator Calderoli. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have correctly requested a vote by show of hands, because none of the other Members requested an electronic vote. We therefore voted by show of hands. The result of the vote was very clear, to the point that you said before the counter-test was requested: according to my own assessments, the proposal is accepted. [[Applause.]] A senator was then given the floor while voting. After the proclamation of the outcome, the counter-test was requested. Whistles at the stadium, not in here, both from above and below. [[Excusatio non petita, accusatio manifesta. (Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u58	Senator Calderoli, the counterproof has been requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u59	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, when you said: I have the counterproof, you said, correctly: the doors are closed. The moment that we are living, linked to the extension also in the upper tribune, allows Senators Quaestors to verify that these three entrance doors are closed, but not that those of the stage of the first and second order are closed. [[Applause. Comments.]] It was evident to everyone that in the first level stands the people who are now there were not there. And if you applaud for winning by three votes, you should hide not in the stands [[Protests. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u60	Senator Calderoli, I asked for all the access doors to be locked, including the stands. I asked Senators Quaestors to verify that they were closed. I cannot verify it from here, but those in charge of this function must do so, because the responsibility lies with those who have a precise and specific function and you, as vice president, know it well. I said to shut it down, if someone didn't do it and someone didn't verify that this happened, including the assistants, everyone will answer for what they did, but you can't turn to me saying that the doors weren't closed when I said that everything had to be closed. [[Protests.]] Now I don't want to argue, otherwise I'll suspend the House and suspend it, okay? Either you stop, or I'll suspend her and suspend her indefinitely, if you don't stop.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u62	What are you talking about? RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, you have declared your approval and you have seen the discrepancy between the first vote by show of hands, the result of which was then proclaimed by you, and the numbers instead of the electronic vote. I assure you there weren't and there couldn't have been only three rejection votes. Since you first proclaimed the result of the vote, then you declared that you opened the vote and closed the doors - I am sorry, but since we are here too and we have eyes - the stands, which were empty before, filled in within a matter of minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You know better than I what the Rules of Procedure mean when you ask for counterproof. I proclaimed the result compared to what I saw. There has been a counterproof, you must know the Rules of Procedure and you know it better than I do. RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). President Casellati, you are impeccable, but if you let me finish it. We ask that we check with the closed circuit, so with the cameras in the Senate, what has happened in this House today.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u63	[[Applause. Protests.]] We ask for verification with internal cameras, because what the senators did in the stands is unacceptable for a democracy like ours. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u64	All right.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u65	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u67	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I am proof that the closure of the doors has worked, because I have remained outside with some of my colleagues in the Democratic Party. [[Applause.]] After that, I was also very harsh in criticism of the Presidency, but I consider these attitudes unacceptable by the Lega and Forza Italia Group against the management of the Presidency and I ask that we proceed with the work, respecting the Rules of Procedure, as has been done so far.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u70	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to say that just as we had - I remind you - contested a decision you had previously taken, that is to put to the vote according to the proposal made by Senator Calderoli, but you rightly and legitimately. . [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Senator Pharaoh leaves his position so that he can intervene from the pre-defined posts.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u71	Let's not exaggerate, he was running out of talk, he had started. Go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u72	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Yeah, I'd been talking for a minute. I was saying that I believe that this House must always respect its decisions, both when its decisions go in one direction and when they go in another direction. As I contested a decision before you, but then we took note of your decision and voted on it, I think it is now appropriate for the whole House to take note of your decision. I also think it is inappropriate, Mr President, for your Vice-President, Mr Calderoli, to contest a decision concerning your choice and the functioning of this House, which is also in your responsibility. I believe that we must move forward with the work and that your intervention must always be respected, both when you say one thing and when you say another that goes in another direction.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u73	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u75	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I would like to remove a possible misunderstanding. From what I have heard of Senator Ronzulli's speeches and, even though he was a little disturbed by the buzz of Senator Calderoli, it seems to me - and I agree very much - that no one has questioned his perfect behavior. [[Applause.]] There's no point in trying to throw it in a caciara. The President had the vote and then, dutylessly, asked for the doors to be closed for counterproof. What you are complaining about is not about your responsibility, Mr President, nor is it about the responsibility of the Quaestors, who were in the Chamber under these conditions and not in the forums; it is about responsibility and honesty. [[Applause]] of any colleagues who pretended they didn't know they couldn't vote. [[Comments. Applause.]] It is useless for you to be angry, because we are talking about this. [[Comments.]] Colleagues, be quiet and let me speak, because I don't think I'm offending anyone. I'm saying we're talking about this possible responsibility. As this is ascertainable, exactly as Senator Ronzulli asked, through a mechanism of vision of the images... [[Brusio.]] Of course it's not a football game, but it's not even a fake game.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u76	Senator La Russa, you're a Vice President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u77	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). If I don't interrupt, I'll finish. Mr President, confirming what has already been said, we believe that there has been an undue presence in the forums of people who were not entitled to vote. We ask you to ascertain, even for disciplinary purposes, this impression of us. Mr President, I should like to add that I shall not have to ask you to speak again. After this I'm waiting to see if my glass ball explodes or not, that is, whether this government will still have the courage to put the question of trust after a swindle vote like this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u78	Colleagues, I've listened to everyone. As one of my tasks is to ensure the good administration of the Senate, namely a Senate that must have no shadows or suspicions, I suspend the session in view of the verification of the closing of the doors in the stands. [[Applause. The sitting was suspended at 12.23 p.m. and resumed at 2.15 p.m.]] The session is resumed. Senators quaestors have acquired and checked official video footage of the Senate cameras, as well as testimonies from parliamentary assistants. They have therefore verified the correspondence between the relationship provided by the Offices of Police and the images detected by them. I shall therefore read the report on the sitting in question - and I say this for the sake of clarity. "At about 12.15 p.m. at the meeting of the Assembly on 18 June 2020, the President declared the counterproof open, which had been requested after a vote by show of hands, and subsequently ordered the closing of the doors. The parliamentary assistants, when the doors were closed, immediately closed the doors, not only in the Chamber but also in all the forums. After that, according to the testimonies collected among the parliamentary assistants, no senator is entered." [[Brusio.]] Please, I have suspended the session just to carry out a verification; now I would ask for some silence. "He only entered some of the administration's personal forums to deliver the necessary tablets for voting to some senators who were deprived of them. Moreover, the senators who were deprived of them and were already inside had crowded near the closed door to have them delivered and at the most excited moment they left empty some seats in the front rows of the stands. The following senators were not able to take part in the vote: on the floor of the Chamber Airola, Bernini, Botto, Casini, Ciampolillo, Evangelista, Ferrara, Gallone, Giammanco, Grasso, Licheri, Marcucci, Parrini, Quagliariello, Rizzotti, Romeo; on the floor of the tribune of the first order Campagna and Drago; on the floor of the tribune of second order Pittoni; on the diplomatic forums no one remained outside. Senator Drago said she had mistakenly voted with the tablet, even though she remained outside the forum door." Therefore, the result is as follows (taking into account Senator Drago's non-vote): [[Senators present 207 Senators voting 206 Majority 104 Favorables 102 Contrari 104]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 1845, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 26 of 20 April 2020 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u80	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 26, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 2.20 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u81	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Economic Development and the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Ruotolo has the right to explain the question 3-01687 on the cases of relocation by undertakings benefiting from facilitations, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u82	Mr Patuanelli, it was you - indeed, more correctly, a statement of yours - who suggested this question to me when you said that there were no legislative instruments to oppose the 'take the money' and run away. The theme is that of the relocations of multinationals that benefit from public money and, then, abandon or want to abandon - entirely or in part - our country. There are several open tables on industrial crises. There is one, in particular, that needs answers and that reactivates as soon as possible. From here, Minister, I ask you to receive the company and representatives of the workers of the Whirlpool in Naples. You know the situation well. By now it is more than a year that the American multinational of appliances has decided to close the Neapolitan plant: 420 workers plus the induced. Losing the job is always dramatic, losing it in Naples - in the Mezzogiorno - is even more so. I will stop here, also telling you that I have asked colleagues from other groups who support the majority to try to write together a bill on this. Today I would like to understand from you what results there have been as a result of the adoption of the 2014 Stability Act which, with Article 1, paragraphs 60 and 61, provides for the forfeiture of the benefits received for companies that relocate their production. These provisions provide that Italian and foreign companies operating in the national territory that have benefited from public capital contributions, if within three years of the granting of the same delocalize their production from the promoted site in a country not belonging to the European Union, resulting in a reduction of staff of at least 50%, lapse from the same benefit and have the obligation to return the capital contributions received. You know that Whirlpool was planning to relocate the production of the Neapolitan plant in Turkey or Poland. In conclusion, Minister, I ask you how many and what measures for the revocation of capital benefits the Ministry of Economic Development has notified, from 1 January 2014 to today, to the beneficiaries pursuant to Article 1, paragraphs 60 and 61 of Law No 147 of 2013.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u83	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the honourable Members for wanting to touch on a very sensitive and important subject for our country, such as relocations. I start immediately from the answer to the question and then I will try to argue some concepts. The answer is zero, obviously not due to inertia of the Ministry of Economic Development. Moreover, following the adoption of the rule referred to - Article 1, paragraphs 60 and 61 of Law No 147, 27 December 2013, the Stability Act of 2014 - there was obviously the Directive of 25 November 2015 which determined the criteria for the implementation of that rule. The reason why it is not possible to implement, in reality, a sacrosanct device such as that of recovering the funds possibly given for productions in Italy that are relocated is that any regulatory arrangements - and a parliamentary initiative that deepens this issue - must remain within the limits laid down by Article 41 of the Constitution, which guarantees the freedom of enterprise, and must also remain within the rules laid down for the single European market, therefore such devices must refer to the relocations outside the EU. Obviously, set some stakes within which we can move, as the legislator moves, so move the enterprises, going to do those real and material relocation works that actually respect the stakes beyond which you can no longer recover the benefit paid. It often awaits the three years needed, after which it delocalizes. The 50% limit is respected by delocalising, in one production, even one employee less than 50% of the total, and of course this is not the case. In contrast, these stakes risk or invade the field of Article 41 of the Constitution or, of course, give other instruments that can be overcome by multinationals and companies in general. In my opinion, however, we must also take into consideration the fact that today we have the opportunity to put in place tools that more than hit those who have relocated, go to reward those who bring back the productive activities in Italy, with the so-called back reshoring that will be a founding element of the plan to relaunch the Government. We need to identify the dumping of different kinds that leads multinationals to no longer produce in our country but elsewhere - I am thinking of tax and wage dumping - and therefore, with a reasoning that cannot but be European, to protect our market compared to other markets and competitions on the global market. I believe that the opportunity before us is unrepeatable because we will have resources to put in place for these instruments. I was very impressed by an interview with Stiglitz a few weeks ago - I think at the end of April - when he said not to waste this crisis. This too is a subject to be explored in order not to waste this crisis. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Rotolo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u85	Minister, thank you for the honesty of your reply. This is a subject that we have been going on for too long. I am aware of the limitations and guarantees that the Constitution provides for company law, but we also need to think about workers' rights. That's why we need teamwork, and that's why I've also asked other colleagues to work. Certainly the subject is European because it is clear that if in Italy the salary costs 100 and 30 kilometers from the border costs 50, the speech is related to globalization, so even in Europe we must go to work to create a harmonization of wages. In the meantime, however, I tell you from here, Minister, that there are people who are hungry. Receive workers from Whirlpool in Naples and the company. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u86	Senator Laniece has the right to explain the question 3-01690 on the completion of the works on the state road of Gran San Bernardo, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u87	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the ANAS, with its disposition of 10 June 2011, had approved the executive project for the construction of the road 27 of the Gran San Bernardo, the installation work between Etroubles and the junction of the motorway for the tunnel of the Gran San Bernardo, a variant between Etroubles and Saint Oyen. It is, as you know, the state road connecting Italy to Switzerland. The work on completion and completion of this section and this work and the motorway connection in the tunnel are still at a standstill. On 22 November 2018, I had already submitted a written question to the then Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, from which unfortunately no new elements had emerged. This work was to be completed in 2016, both with regard to road works and with regard to the restoration of agricultural areas temporarily occupied for the storage of material. Due to the well-known events related to the contractor Lauro SpA, the progress of the works is stopped in December 2015 with the consequent stop of the process of disposal and reuse of the materials resulting from the excavation. In October 2018, the engineer Luongo dell'ANAS, at the hearing in the III Permanent Commission of the Aosta Valley Regional Council, explained the timing of the project by reporting that it would be approved and validated in the spring of 2019 and that during the summer of the same year the phase of the publication of the new contract would be completed. We take note of the fact that unfortunately the timing of the design of the work and its validation will not end before the year 2023. Such timing is more than twice as long as was expected. In all this remains the condition of danger regarding the road axis, the problems related to the material still to be disposed of, therefore image damage to the environment, the agropastoral and landscape sector remain. I would therefore ask the Minister, precisely in order to avoid further hydrogeological risks, to know whether he is aware of the facts set out above and, above all, whether he does not intend to intervene directly in order to be able to conclude, in an urgent way, a rapid completion of this variant between the parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u88	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2018-2019 update of the 2016-2020 programme contract through ANAS provides for EUR 2.650 billion of bridge maintenance and viaducts on the ANAS road network, as well as EUR 641 million, plus 440 already allocated, for the extraordinary maintenance of the former provincial roads transferred to it. Even during the lockdown phase the yard activities have continued and you are quickly returning to a normal situation. In relation to the works contracts entrusted by ANAS the activities in 444 yards are being carried out for the value of one billion. In relation to the works contracts entrusted by the interregional authorities to public works, operations are ongoing at 336 yards, worth 700 million. Finally, with regard to motorway work, construction sites are open for more than 80% of those already contracted. Regarding the obstruction of the torrent Artanavaz, the company ANAS points out that the same was eliminated under the supervision of the Valle d'Aosta Region in the autumn of 2019 and that there is now no danger. With regard to the piles of smarino recalled in its act of union, they insist on areas temporarily occupied and that will be returned in a new configuration that has been agreed with the owners of the areas and the Region. Finally, ANAS points out that, with regard to the executive design relating to the completion of the State 27 with the connection with the highway for the tunnel of the Gran San Bernardo, the executive project is being drafted and it is planned to entrust the contract for the execution of the works by the end of this year. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Laniece to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u90	Minister, thank you for your reply and for the timely information you have given us. I take note of your commitment. I can say that I am extremely dissatisfied with the way things have been going in recent years and with the direction this project is taking, which the community of the Gran San Bernardo valley has been waiting for years. So let's watch and see how things evolve.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u91	Senator Faraone has the right to explain the question 3-01696 on the construction of the bridge over the Strait of Messina, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u92	Minister, today we are questioning you with regard to the request for possible intervention by the Government on the construction of a very important infrastructure. However, rather than questioning her about the possibility, we would like to ask her about the real realization and the steps that the Government intends to put in place in order to ensure that this infrastructural work is realized and realized quickly. I am referring to the steps needed to achieve the "Mediterranean Bridge"; I would call it that, rather than a bridge over the Strait, since it is a necessary infrastructure to connect the markets of the Far East to Europe, bringing high speed to Palermo and Augusta, with corridor 1 which is called the "Berlin." It would benefit the country's economy, because we would become central in the Mediterranean; it would also benefit the environment, without CO2 emissions and avoiding the journeys of polluting container ships, today forced to cross the Mediterranean and the Strait of Gibraltar, after having coasted Portugal, Spain, France and Belgium, to Rotterdam. Nor does it convince us, Minister, that, if an infrastructure is built, there is in fact the certainty of stealing and corruption. We have shown that in this country it is possible to intervene, even quickly (bridge of Genoa, Expo), without there being any corruption and without there being mafia infiltration: preventing this is the competence of the State. In addition, Minister, the fourth point is no less important, i.e. a necessary infrastructural equalization in the country, so that, in addition to the bridge, high speed can be achieved, the interventions on the ZES, the port authority and broadband, because these measures and these interventions, all together, would lead to a revival of the Mezzogiorno, as well as of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u93	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u94	Mr President, the health emergency has made it even more fundamental to improve links with and between the regions of the Mezzogiorno, which is strategic in order to allow, using both the resources already allocated by the Government and those made available by Europe, an effective and easy exercise of the right to mobility and the mobility of goods. For this reason, in the fast-paced Italy plan, the infrastructure in the South represents the heart of the project for the next few years for the country. In this context there is the deepening of the bridge over the Strait of Messina, for which a public company currently in liquidation had been set up. This deepening requires a careful assessment of the technical and construction problems and the employment, environmental, transport and, more generally, of the results of a detailed cost-benefit analysis, as provided for in Article 23 of the Procurement Code. This will be followed by a thorough review and evaluation of the work by all the political forces and territories concerned for the final decision. I am convinced, in fact, that the realization of useful works, even in a reasonable time, can not in any case ignore a virtuous relationship between the infrastructure and the territory in which the same must insist, that it must be based on a broad consensus around the options of social development also and of economic-productive vocation of the territories. At the end of this analysis, therefore, which may last a few months, the decision on the possible realization of the work can be taken and of course, consequently, the total financing.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u95	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u96	Mr President, I am partially satisfied with the answer because I believe that in all these years of cost-benefit analyses there have been a great deal of it and that today we are in a position to choose something and not to postpone it further. Minister, the Government, among other things, has presented to the general states the plan for the social forces in which high speed is also planned for Sicily. Unless we think the train should fly, the bridge is planned. I agree that we must listen to all the political forces, which have already been abundantly declared. I have heard his Undersecretary Chancellors of the Movimento 5 Stars say in favour, all opposition forces say in favour, like Minister Franceschini. We, like Italy Viva, are equally. I believe that in this Parliament, if we voted on the bridge, there would be an overwhelming majority of consensus. There are finally also economic resources and there will no longer be this opportunity for such large economic resources on the part of Europe because they are one-off. It is therefore possible, at last, to implement an intervention. Minister, there is also a project and there are the cost-benefits assessed by the professional organisations, including Confindustria, on the jobs created and on the wealth generated in the country. I believe that the time is ripe for us to proceed within this parliamentary term. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u97	Senator Calandrini has the right to explain the question 3-01692 on the construction of a motorway between Rome and Latina and a road between Cisterna and Valmontone, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u98	Mr President, Minister, the territory of the province of Latina has been waiting for more than twenty years for the construction of the Rome-Latina motorway and the Cisterna-Valmontone road, strategic works that would allow not only to connect the capital to the capital of Pontino, but also to improve the existing network between the city of Rome, the Campania Region and the highway of the sun A1. For the execution of the work, the CIPE with resolution of 2004 allocated 468 million euros. In 2008 a public limited company called Autostrade del Lazio, a mixed society between the Region and ANAS, was set up to carry out the same work. The work has a total cost of 2.7 billion euros and is evident the 20-year delay for its execution. The delay condemns the territory of the province of Latina to an isolation that penalizes the local economy, with numerous companies that have decided to relocate due to lack of connections, in addition to the high incidentality that makes the Pontina one of the most dangerous arteries in Italy. The realization of this infrastructure, moreover, would have a formidable impact on the territory of the province of Latina, that, Minister, the reminders have the first chemical-pharmaceutical pole of Italy, besides a fundamental connection to the European corridor of the A1 highway. I would also like to remind you of what happened on 24 April, just under two months ago, when, in an official hearing of the Budget Commission in the Lazio region, the city council member for public works, who belongs to his own party, Minister, said that it is the intention of his Ministry, in a decree to be issued, to identify an extraordinary Commissioner for the execution of the work (I imagine like the Ponte Morandi of Genoa). This appointment never took place. Therefore, Brothers of Italy, asks you to know how the Government intends to proceed in order to realize the Rome-Latin and the Cisterna-Valmontone; how it intends to support the Region is at ANAS and with what additional resources it intends to proceed to the construction of this work, which is of vital importance for the province of Latina.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u99	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u100	Mr President, the construction of the corridor of the intermodal corridor via Rome-Latina, including the Cisterna-Valmontone Brewery, is an absolute priority for the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, waiting for the economic and social importance, as well as transport of the work. In order to safeguard the activity to date carried out, as well as to speed up the time of definition of a very complex procedural process, and to support the decision-making process exactly, a working table was established at the MIT with the participation of the Lazio region, the ANAS and the society "Autostrade del Lazio." At the meeting of the CIPE, scheduled for June 25th, the theme of the completion of the southern Tyrrhenian corridor A12-Appia and motorway junction Cisterna-Valmontone, section A12 Rome-Civitavecchia, Rome-Tor de' Cenci, the extension of the declaration of public utility, which is the first act that allows us to proceed; and that an amendment has been submitted, in the course of discussion exactly in these hours, to the bill of conversion of the decree relaunched to the Chamber of Deputies, aimed at facilitating the realization of the work. As for the use of the public resources currently available, I represent that all institutional actors are proceeding to the conclusion of formal acts, which will enable us to close, not only the legal issues that I imagine the Senator knows very well, but above all to use the resources and present the project as soon as possible. With regard to the question of the commissioner, as you know, we had produced a list, in which the work was present, but the subsequent decision to intervene very briefly on the whole issue of simplification of procedures, meant that we put ourselves in a condition, as well as of discussion of the works, even of waiting, to arrive, with the new rules and, therefore, with the new Commissioners' powers and with the new lists, to implement the policies we had announced on this particular issue. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Calandrini to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u101	Minister, I am absolutely not satisfied with the answer because you are not actually answering me. I had hoped that you would come here today, in this House, to announce the imminent start of the work, considering, as you said a moment ago, that in October this year the pre-ordered link to the expropriation expires in order to be able to occupy the land where this infrastructure will have to arise. So, I assume that if that doesn't happen, it's gonna blow everything completely. I had deluded myself with your commitment to the appointment of an extraordinary Commissioner in order to speed up the process of this work. I note that other logics prevail in the government, because you, Minister, are called here to put a piece of cloth. We do not hide behind a finger, because we know very well that his traveling companions, part of his majority, that is the Movimento 5 Stars, see Rome-Latin as the smoke in the eyes. Sacrifice a very important infrastructure for the province of Latina and Lazio, on the altar of a majority estate, which makes water from all sides and is glued to its doors. So you and your government have on your conscience an entrepreneurial fabric that is dying and that you are refusing to save. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u102	Senator Stefano has the right to explain the question 3-01695 on the full operation of the airports, with particular regard to the situation of Salento, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u103	Mr President, Madam Minister, as you know, in order to contain and combat the spread of the Covid, in recent months it has rightly been done to rationalise the air transport service, guaranteeing the operation of only some airports and only for some routes. From March to today there have been several measures to regulate the matter, the last of which, on 14 June, has formally foreseen the extension of the operation of the services to several airports, in view of the numerous requests of the airport managers, the geographical location of the airports able to serve user basins in a uniform way on the territory and their infrastructural capacity, but also the need to guarantee the island connections until 14 July 2020, with the possibility, by the National Civil Aviation Authority (ENAC), on the basis of additional requests and needs of air transport, to modify and supplement this list. However, in spite of the fact that some airports are operating as guaranteed, no routes have actually been re-established. This situation, in a country with a strong tourist vocation such as Italy, that needs a rapid restart and every instrument and a means suitable to guarantee and support the recovery, the reduction or worse the total absence of flights on some ports of call, causes harmful consequences, with more regard to the South, for which the tourist season now in progress constitutes an important opportunity of restart. I take as an example the airport of Brindisi, which serves the entire area of Salento, where today there are zero daily air routes. This situation ictu oculi determines important consequences in chain on the economy of the entire area of the Region and its occupational estate, starting also from that tied to the operativity of the same port of call. The measures put in place by the Government in these months of emergency regarding the tourism sector have been numerous, but if they are not adequately accompanied by the full operation of transport infrastructures serving tourism in those areas of the country with greater vocation, we risk not being able to make this sector resume the road of development. I therefore believe that reactivation of air routes is a priority. In view of all this, Madam Minister, I ask you to know whether you intend to proceed in order to restore the greatest number of routes operating before the lockdown sentence, with particular attention and sensitivity towards the territories of southern and island Italy, which serve otherwise totally unstocked catchment areas, and if you do not consider it necessary, in view of the new industrial plan that affects Alitalia, to work in agreement with the Minister of Economic Development to ensure that air routes outside the market choices, which are somehow unavoidable, are planned and ensured, because the effective right to mobility must be guaranteed in all areas of our country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u104	Mr President, the efforts made during the period of lockdown by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, by operators and workers throughout the sector to ensure the mobility of people and the transfer of all goods are well known. In view, moreover, of the strategic role of the goods section, transport and logistics, from the beginning of the emergency Covid have been adopted a series of measures, in agreement with the Minister of Health, in order to prevent and contain the diffusion of the virus, planning and organizing the mobility for the safety of the user and guaranteeing the health of the working environments and therefore the safety for the workers and the workers. From 3 June the restrictions on the movement of persons within the national territory have ceased. By ministerial decree of 14 June, on the basis of requests received by airport managers, the geographical location of the airports able to serve user basins in a uniform way on the territory and the infrastructure capacity of the same, it has been done to restore the full operation of the services at some airports, including that of Brindisi. In view of the loosening of measures on national territory and the new guidelines on air transport that allow for greater filling of aircraft, once the free movement at international level will be ensured we expect a real resumption of the demand for transport with consequent increase of the supply, until reaching the levels prepandemic. With regard to the government initiatives to promote this recovery and the measures already known and contained in the decree-law relaunch, which is being converted to the House, will be added the necessary initiatives to proceed to a rapid updating of the current National Plan airports and to foresee a strengthening of airport structures, thus making easier and more attractive the connections between the different parts of the country, even those currently less served, without need in many cases of having to resort to the imposition of public service charges, which, as you know, Mr Senator, subject to European rules. As for Alitalia, the newco will have an industrial plan that, in absolute discontinuity with the previous models, will allow Italy, in compliance with the principles of competitiveness and free economic initiative, to have an airline able to contribute to the economic recovery of the country and to compete on the international market. In any case, I would point out that I met Alitalia's extraordinary administrator, who represented my willingness to negotiate with the airport companies new national routes, made the necessary checks on demand, which, as I said before, is already growing. It is obvious that Alitalia is not and will not be the only national operator who will be able to answer the question about the routes we talked about. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Stefano has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u105	I thank you, Minister, and I am sure that you are aware of your commitment and determination and that you will receive this invitation from me. Of course, from what you tell us in this House, I am partially satisfied. I believe that Alitalia carriers must serve their national territory, given the effort we, as Government, make to support this company; and I do not understand that there has ever been a question problem in Salento for connections with Rome and Brindisi. I believe that there are some indispensable routes, because we have the duty to connect Puglia, like Sardinia and Sicily, because it is a matter of civilization, all the more so in those territories where it is not possible to arrive with high-speed trains. From this point of view, I ask you for an even greater commitment, because we need to give mobility to those territories, but also an opportunity to economic operators. I wouldn't know how to come, otherwise, from Lecce to Milan or from Lecce to Rome, if I didn't take ten hours by car, and an economic operator couldn't afford it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u106	Senator De Poli has the right to explain the question 3-01694 on the various interventions necessary for the road of the province of Padua, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u107	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a society like the present one, which is no longer a 4.0 society - we see it these days - but it becomes 5.0, where services must go towards people and not vice versa, it addresses all areas of our lives. The innovation factors of the so-called companies 5.0 can give very interesting ideas to contribute to the improvement of logistics, public and private transport and infrastructure. Unfortunately, the Italian infrastructure assets in recent years have suffered a constant degradation. This puts the safety of our citizens at stake and undoubtedly makes people's quality of life worse. According to a dossier published by the European Commission, Italians remain in line for thirty-eight hours a year compared to Germany or other European countries. Italy unfortunately has a 24 per cent gap on this aspect on behalf of the quality of the roads. The Union of Italian Provinces has made a verification: almost 6,000 viaducts, bridges and tunnels need urgent interventions and another 14,000 works need investigations to avoid the risk of collapse. Dear Minister, Italy needs not only great works, which are however necessary, but also and above all small works in the territories, in order to guarantee safety in the streets and, in parallel, especially in the context of the emergency Covid, to restart the companies and the socio-economic and productive fabric of our Italy. I refer - for example - to the completion for only 7 kilometers of the highway 10, former regional road 10, of which for thirty years we are talking: there are 7 kilometers of connection for all the low Padua between Carceri and the grafting of the A31 and 10 kilometers to reach Montagnana. It would therefore be a small measure, a small contribution, a small amount of State funding. In the same way, dear Minister, today I want to put to your attention the story of the bridge of Curtarolo sul Brenta, in high Padua, along the provincial road 47 of Valsugana: a project that the province of Padua has just realized, which has a cost of 4 million euros. It is also a small project in this case, but unfortunately the bridge, subject to heavy traffic limitation due to the deterioration of the load-bearing structures and the considerable problems of staticity, urgently needs maintenance and consolidation works and I believe that this is one of the other issues. The provincial road in question connects with the Valsugana, up to Trento, and then serves a link to the Pedemontana highway. I believe that these are fundamental and important aspects for the territory of Padua and Veneto. We need very small funding - we are not talking about great works - but fundamental in order to be able to give a concrete answer to the needs of this whole territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u108	Mr President, with regard to the request for state funding for provincial roads, I represent to the Senator who, on 19 March, I signed - and subsequently was validated by the State-Regions Conference - a decree with the allocation of the first 995 million resources for provincial roads. On May 29 I signed a second decree for the amount of 459 million for the provincial roads, obviously divided for each Province. As is well known, however, the road 47 - and I am now going to one of Senator De Poli's requests - has been downgraded to a provincial road, with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 21 February 2000, in the only section of about 30 kilometers that insists precisely in the province of Padua. In the remaining sections the road remained within the State competence of ANAS. In January 2017, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport proposed the reclassification as a state road also of the section falling in the territory of Padua. This proposal was not shared by the Veneto Region and, therefore, the section of road in question in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 21 November 2019, which revised the road network of national interest, was not included. In February 2020, during a meeting of the technical table set up to examine proposals for further changes to the road network of national interest, the representative of the Veneto Region formalized the request for reclassification as state of this 30 km stretch of the provincial road in question. Therefore, in the next measure of revision of the road network of national interest, of course we will take charge and take into account the request of the Veneto Region. On the other hand, regarding the completion of the state road 10, insistent in the area of the lower Padua, the assessments of the need for resources are being carried out. There will then be a comparison with the Province to assess also the impact on the resources that we have already allocated and of which I mentioned the figures at the beginning of my speech, to consider, if possible, whether to include the financing, in whole or in part, in the 2020 Investment Fund, which will shortly be distributed by the Presidency of the Council.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u109	I give the floor to Senator De Poli to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u110	Mr President, I thank the Minister, although I am not satisfied. In particular, on the resources - both the 995 million euros of its first decree, and the 459 million of the second decree on the provincial roads that the Minister has quoted - I ask that there be a formal commitment of the Ministry to finance the work of the bridge of Curtarolo. The same applies to the regional road 10: for thirty years the citizens have been waiting for the last part of the link to the lower Padua. Therefore, rather than considering the possibility of including this section in the 2020 investment fund, I would say that it must be included, precisely in order to give the answer that has been waiting for all citizens for more than thirty years now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u111	Senator Faggi has the right to explain the question 3-01697 on the simplification of public procurement legislation for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u112	Minister, I would like to save you from repeating the premises of my colleagues, because they are almost all the same, as is mine. The issue of Covid-19 has led us to an even clearer situation in terms of infrastructure. However, I would like to refer to the questions put by my fellow Members, all of whom refer to major delays. For example, Mr Laniece highlighted the issue of work to be completed in 2016 and perhaps to be seen at the end of 2023; Mr Faraone spoke of a priority project, defined by the European Community in 2004 - the official expression was more than fifteen years ago - which is still; Mr Calandrini recalled a resolution of the 2004 CIPE which allocated resources for a work costing €2.7 billion, which is still; Mr Stefano rightly points out that it takes ten hours to come to the Senate and perhaps it would be right to think of an air link with Lecce, which I fully agree with; Mr De Poli addressed the part of security on some other important roads, which are still standing still. At present, planned infrastructure interventions amount to almost EUR 200 billion. The case - for example - of motorways is emblematic: the updates of the economic and financial plans of many concessionary companies are waiting to be approved, in some cases, from 2018 by the Ministry of Infrastructure. I also take my example: the lack of approval of the new plans is reason to block investments for almost 20 billion euros, including about 7 billion already cantierabile interventions and 4 billion previewed for the Gronda of Genoa, that is a priority realization, regarding which are attested very serious inconveniences, that historically serves the road of all the North-West. A simplification intervention has already been made, and I shall return to that. Everyone has rightly denounced delays here and has mentioned works that have been going on for years in their specific territories, which are still there. But, if we do not put our hands on the most important part, namely the rule governing the possibility of the construction of these infrastructures, we will be here in six months to talk more about further delays, which will be added to those that have already been there. The unblocking of yards has practically put a suspension until 31 December 2020 and has had, at the statistical level, an important positive effect: 16% more spending on investments in the municipalities, 40% more value of tenders. There has therefore been a clear and significant position on this small part of the code - you will know it better than I do, Minister - which concerns works up to EUR 1 million. For the great works, however, those of the value above 10 million, it is absolutely essential to put in place a model system Genoa, that is the special regime that wanted the League for the reconstruction of the Morandi bridge and allowed the start of the works only three months after the collapse and their completion in just fourteen months. This is not a League model, but it is expressed through a very precise source of law: I am referring to Directive 2014/24/EU which had already requested the appointment of a Commissioner. Then there was another directive, the one in 2020 that has just come out, which gives guidelines on the use of the public procurement code framework, especially in an emerging situation such as the one related to the crisis of the Covid-19. I would like to ask you, Minister, how you intend to act for the overall simplification of the procedures provided for in the current rules for public procurement in order to allow the realization of the many infrastructure investments inexplicably blocked (not so inexplicably). The legislation is so complex that in the end we end up in appeals against appeals and we have seen how all our colleagues, both majority and minority, have denounced a very difficult situation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u113	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u114	Mr President, on the first day of our inauguration, I expressly instructed the offices to carry out the punctual reconnaissance of all planned and blocked public works, which obviously depended on the Ministry or on the large national contracting stations, identifying all the initiatives necessary to overcome the problems that had prevented their start or by chance - never by chance - hindered their implementation. On the Ministry's website, every day, the update of the total value of the works that we have unlocked and of the funds provided is published, without having since happened normative interventions, but exclusively thanks to a more effective and incisive administrative action. At the date of 17 June 2020, the total amount is approximately €12 billion in less than nine months. With regard to regulatory simplification in the field of public procurement, the Government is preparing some measures for a forthcoming decree, which first intervenes under the regime on the forecasts of the Code of Contracts in order to reduce some factors of slowing down of the procedures of confidence and the subsequent phase of execution, also through the reduction of the administrative burdens; secondly, it has a temporary discipline aimed at favoring the resumption of the various productive sectors hard hit by the Covid, through forecasts that, in compliance with the principles of legality, impartiality, transparency, as well as maximum responsibility of the contracting stations, that will be the heart of this measure, allow a rapid identification of the contractors and the resolution of any disputes. In this context, we will also consider the possibility of using the appointment of extraordinary Commissioners, but not as an ordinary way of carrying out interventions, but as a measure to speed up interventions characterized by a high degree of design complexity, a particular difficulty of execution, or a complexity of the technical-administrative procedures that determine a significant impact on the work. Dear Senator, I put to you the following final reflection: none of the works we have spoken about today in this very authoritative Chamber is blocked for reasons related to the rules, the code of contracts. The works we have talked about today are blocked either for design reasons or for reasons determined by political choices - national and local - that have prevented the implementation of the process regulated by the Code of Procurement.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u115	Senator Faggi has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u116	Mr Minister, first of all, I would like to thank you for the very kind reply, which unfortunately - I must say - does not satisfy me. I have referred to the questions raised by my fellow Members because these are delays which - you have pointed out to me - relate to design. I have been involved in procurement for twenty-five years, which is why it is a matter that I know very well, as I know all the evolution of the contract code, from legislative decree no. 163 of 2006 to the legislative decrees that have followed, from legislative decree no. 50 of 2016 until today. Today's legislation is a little stuck with the current situation; a regulation that is probably kept extremely complicated and bureaucratic, which then reverberates in so many difficulties - she herself recognized - in reference - for example - to the design, so it must be lightened. That of Genoa is not a model of commissionership that the League is inspired by because the Commissioner is fine. The League is not interested in commissarizing everyone: the League is interested in the result. And the result of the Genoa model saw a bridge suddenly fallen on itself and between its design and its realization spend twelve months. So, compared to what my fellow Members have said, this is the obvious and significant example of how simple legislation can be useful. [[Applause]] Minister, maybe you don't care what I say. That's all I need. I'm a simple senator, even in the country, so there's no problem, and I'm happy as I am. But you know what I do? I'm gonna get you out of this. I'm gonna give you the bill with the works so you can, when you have a moment, maybe you can read it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u117	Senator Lupo has the right to explain the question 3-01689 on the reopening of airports and on the reorganization of the air transport sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u118	Dear Minister, the air transport sector is one of the most affected by the crisis generated by the Covid: the International air transport association (IATA) estimated losses for 2020 of approximately €74.5 billion and a fall, of course, in profits. Also in Italy, with the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, from 15 June has been eliminated the obligation of social distance on board the aircrafts; the obligation of mask and the prohibition of boarding at a temperature of 37.5 degrees; there is also talk of prohibition of carrying large baggage, very difficult to understand. This topic, if not well managed, from the accesses to the airport area, with the help of airport managers and handling, could actually risk to cause some problem in the final phase of the boarding proper, causing eventual assemblages. There are a number of requests - sometimes I would say pressure - on the national carrier to operate certain routes at specific airports, but they do not appear to have large requests on the basis of the carrier's reservation indexes. In this case I wonder, since there are airports actually in a certain sense more sensitive to the distances to be put in place, perhaps the regions could urge and work for territorial continuity. As far as Milan Linate airport is concerned, I understand the difficulty of the operators and the economic one, but it remains a very important airport for the business. Therefore, I wonder if there is any way to find a solution for its reopening and operation, including by evaluating particular time slots. Air transport is an essential factor in the growth of the GDP of our tourism. The forecasts estimate a recovery of the market equal, compared to pre-Covid, 40% in 2021 and even 30% in 2022. The crisis can actually be a great opportunity to restore certain structures of the past, with a systemic vision. The rule contained in Article 203 of the so-called re-launching decree is highly appreciated, because it makes us hope that there will be attention on some professional figures often considered almost invisible. The Government is asked what initiatives are being taken to ensure maximum safety for passengers and operators, monitoring the responsibilities of each actor with regard to compliance with the rules. We ask for an intervention in order to understand how to reopen the airport of Milan Linate, taking into account the criticalities and economic difficulties, of which we do not doubt, of the manager and what position the Government has regarding the plan of reorganization of the field of the air transport. Among other things, I remember that here in the Senate, in the Commission public works, communications, is under consideration the bill Act Senate 727, which is ready to be of total support to the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u119	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the air transport sector is at the heart of the daily activity of the Ministry and is one of the pillars of the Italy Fast plan. It is, therefore, certainly the growth factor of the country's GDP with a strong tourist vocation. As regards the measures to ensure the safety of passengers and operators, I would remind you that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 June 2020 contains conditions, which we have assessed together with the indications of the Technical and Scientific Committee, in addition to the organizational indications, and specific forecasts for all carriers operating in Italy. In particular, I quote the one-way routes within the airport and in the routes up to the gates in order to maintain separate flows of incoming and outgoing users; the obligation of interpersonal distance of one metre on board the aircraft and within the terminals and all other airport facilities. In addition, it is permitted to derogate from the interpersonal spacing of one metre on board aircraft if the air on board is renewed every three minutes, the flows are vertical and the aircraft is equipped with EPE filters. In addition, prior to boarding, a specific self-certification shall be provided for the acquisition of close contact with persons with Covid within the last two days before symptoms arise and up to fourteen days after symptoms arise; temperature measurement prior to access to the aircraft; the prohibition of boarding in the event of such a temperature exceeding 37,5 degrees; the obligation to use surgical masks and their replacement every four hours; the absolute prohibition of employment of places other than those assigned during check-in and the prohibition of carrying cabin baggage on the aircraft in order to avoid continuous or possible movement of persons approaching the distance; the obligation to inform the carrier and the territorially competent USL of the occurrence of Covid symptoms within eight days of landing in order to ensure the widest traceability; the obligation to hygienize and sanitize terminals and aircraft, even several times a day on the basis of traffic of the AOC and aircraft, with specific attention to all surfaces touched by passengers. With regard to the failure to reopen the Milan Linate airport, the Ministerial Decree of 14 June was adopted on the basis of requests received from airport managers, the geographical location of the airports able to serve uniform user basins and the infrastructure capacity of the same airports. In this case, in view of the current demand levels, the airport operator considered that it would concentrate all the operations of the flights on Milan Malpensa airport. On the basis of additional air transport needs, however, it can be arranged at any time, in accordance with the procedures indicated in the Ministerial Decree, also the reopening of Linate. Soon, however, there will be a meeting with SEA for updates compared to reopening times. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the power to respond to Senator Wolf for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u121	Minister, thank you for the answer I am satisfied with. However, I would like to point out that the President-in-Office's decree is certainly very attentive to the safety of passengers and operators. However, the restoration of the temperature measurement at the airport entrance could be assessed, not leaving the responsibility to the carriers, because it could actually generate a bottleneck. I think that the passenger, when he arrives on board, should be ready to board and should not have to be subjected to procedures that can be carried out even earlier. With regard to the pressures on some sensitive airports or in any case in a certain sense more in need, because unfortunately in previous years alternative infrastructures such as railways have not been built, I would invite the Regions to assess the territorial continuity or other forms of public service useful for passenger mobility that I imagine to be fundamental. On the other hand, as regards the rules and the reordering of the air transport sector, I hope that there will be a firm will. We have seen it, and I appreciate it, with Article 203 above, which is only a beginning, but it does show considerable attention from the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u122	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u123	I immediately convene the Conference of Leaders. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 16.09 p.m. and resumed at 16.24 p.m.) The session is resumed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u126	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business on what happened this morning. Undoubtedly, as a Lega-Salvini Premier Group, we respect the result of the deepening done also by the quaestors senators and therefore the result given with reference to the counter-test; we know that the images were viewed and everything that had to be done and what we had asked for was done. Therefore, although we have expressed a number of concerns, if this check has been made and so it has been decided - with Senator Drago who has expressed the fact that he has voted by mistake - we have no reason to doubt that the result proclaimed is that. President, allow us, however, to be a little concerned and also a little bitter because it is quite clear that - my colleagues in the Group expressed this and those who were present in this House at the time verified what happened - there was no correspondence between the senators who voted by show of hands and the senators who voted during the counter-test. Mr President, this was for a simple reason: from the time when there was a vote by show of hands at the time when the counter-test was requested and when the counter-test was voted, a period of time has passed which has undoubtedly allowed many of the majority to reach their posts. [[Applause]] It's no use pretending nothing. I repeat, we respect the vote of the counterproof, but I think this is quite obvious and everyone has noticed it. Our Rules of Procedure provide - and when it happens we also see it on several votes in the calendar when we ourselves ask for a counter-proof - that between the vote by show of hands and the counter-proof with an immediate vote passes very little time. Clearly, the Rules of Procedure provide for this precisely in order to allow no other senators to arrive in order to reach, perhaps, the desired number. We highlight this because we understand and know that, not only in a part but in a large part of the hemicycle, when there is a vote where the majority had to go under with the numbers, some panic attacks and some states of agitation begin that probably not even the supply of anxiety that keeps Dr. Marini could suffice to appease. [[Applause.]] We understand this and we also understand the collective hysteria that is generated in this situation. However, Mr President, in this House we usually have votes on issues of trust on the decree-laws: we have reached the twenty-first or twenty-second vote on trust (now I do not remember). In the Commissions we deal only with incardinations of delegated laws or attempts to incardinate delegated laws. So, now, measures that come directly from Parliament are no longer there, and rarely do we get to vote on any amendments. When there is a European Council, and indeed there has been a difference since the beginning of the pandemic, we have never been given the opportunity to give a mandate to the Government and to the President of the Council. What is missing is that we certify in this House that the majority can never go under and in the end what remains in opposition? [[Applause.]] Let us first declare that we have moved on to a state of authoritarian democracy, so these are the choices, we cannot say anything, we come here just to make some speeches in this House and that is where it ends. This is absolutely not correct and it is unrespectful, I repeat, of Parliament's prerogatives. Then, however, when we are told that the opposition, in a responsible way, indeed, in a constructive way (because now the word "responsible" is no longer used, but it is "constructive" itself), should intervene and try with various interventions rather than complain and always give to the Government, here, in order to disassemble this narrative, of which I have also spoken in other circumstances, I remember that if it had not been for the opposition it would not have passed the deviation of the 55 billion euros that allowed the Government to provide the bonuses and the aids provided in the decree relaunch! [[Applause.]] This puts an end to this farce, which continues to go on. If we had not been present, in fact, the 161 votes on that occasion would not have reached them at all. So, responsibility and being constructive on this side are there. However, since it is not the first time that when there is a vote that creates a little panic then, we do not know why the vote is repeated, change and change the outcome, since there is a regulation and there is a Constitutional Charter, we respect the rules. Then, if the government doesn't have the numbers and the majority isn't there, it'll go under and maybe millions of Italians at home may start sighing with relief. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u127	Senator Romeo, you have made some considerations that I fully share, where you have complained about an activity by the Senate that is reduced, between decrees-laws and votes of confidence. I said it, and I say it at every conference of group leaders. I said it publicly. I wrote it in the papers in the interviews. So today I'm not saying anything new. But you were one of those who wasn't here because you didn't vote, so you don't know exactly the timing. You made an assessment of the time taken after the vote by show of hands, after which I had stated that I thought there was a majority of the opposition; then, since I respect the Rules of Procedure, maybe it would have been five minutes for a request for verification that I gave from the Rules of Procedure. That is why I do not accept this censure on timing. I say this very clearly, because I have done exactly what the Rules of Procedure require and I do not like to be pulled from all sides. On the other hand, I agree with your comments on the progress of this House, which has become invisible, as I say all the time, because it does not seem to me to be dignified for the Senate that we are going forward by decree-laws and not by votes, because this is the place of voting. [[Applause]] I cannot, however, compromise that one can say that I have wasted time making sure that some of the people who were not in the Chamber arrive. I find that unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u128	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u129	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u130	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, I have listened to your words and, I must tell you the truth, we of the Parliamentary Group, the Brothers of Italy, have always tried to respect the institutions (starting from what you represent), the work of our fellow Quaestors and that of the Offices, so we are not here to throw the cross at anyone. However, let us, Mr President, cultivate the doubt (the doubt is legitimate) that there is a shadow over that vote requested by Mr Calderoli. And that shadow remains for a fact that no one can dispute and that is that it is the first time - that I know - that there is a difference between the vote by show of hands and the counterproof by electronic system. [[Applause.]] Evidently on one occasion something did not work. I do not know which of the two, Mr President, I leave it to you, but something did not work if at the first vote you certified that the House had expressed itself in one way and in the next, for only two votes, the result was reversed. I therefore believe that it is common sense, not on your part or our part but on the part of the Government, with respect to a vote that I would define in a controversial euphemistic way, to note that perhaps sometimes a little common sense and humility does not hurt. Therefore, the invitation on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group to the Government is to withdraw the decree-law in question, because if it were not for a controversial vote, it would be on a dead track and it is only a bit controversial circumstances that allowed you to survive. We propose that you rewrite a decree-law that concerns the rules of the game along with oppositions; choose where, when and when; we are willing to come tomorrow and approve it tomorrow evening. That is the offer that we make, but if you think once again, despite everything that has happened in this House again today and after everything that has happened last week in this House, always on the decree-law on school, to continue with this going, we will no longer be spectators of these forcings and of these demonstrations of arrogance, because the issues of trust, Mr Romeo, are not 22 but 27. We've reached every limit. [[Applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, I would like to add that we are not going to be the spectators, we are not going to participate in the vote of confidence, we are going to leave the Chamber; we are going to let the majority do what they want alone. We have made our proposal; if you reject it, you will take responsibility for it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u131	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the Decree-Law on urgent arrangements for electoral consultations for the year 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The discussion on confidence will be limited only to the intervention of the representative of the Forza Italia Group for five minutes; they will follow the explanations of vote and call it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u132	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, what we are discussing - and we are in the debate on confidence - is basically yet another occasion in which Parliament's role is totally debased. It was said by others before me, but obviously, taking into account what the President of the Senate said just a few moments ago, I would say that the measure is full. We have indeed come to consider in particular this branch of Parliament, dear Minister, as totally debased: we have noticed and verified in fact how the Government prefers to incardinate its measures mainly in the Chamber of Deputies, obviously for convenience. The truth is this: the Senate is no longer given the opportunity to make politics and we can no longer discuss the amendments either. Even this morning, when we made so much effort to try to negotiate, we did not put ourselves in a situation of confrontation regardless, and the Undersecretary Variati can confirm that. We are faced with a wall of reinforced concrete, because the truth is that unfortunately - it is right that we should say, especially in the debate linked to trust - there is a political formation, or perhaps more than one, which subjects the collective interest to that of the party. [[Applause.]] Never before, in fact, should it be remembered that it was not convenient for anyone to force above all on a decree-law that should have established the date of the elections, or in any case a limited period in which to indicate the electoral appointment, and that must necessarily be shared also with the oppositions. It is not an argument on which one can think of going on as trains, as if it were of the majority alone; it is not, but you are bending it to party interests, for example, with regard to the amalgamation of the constitutional referendum to the local elections, only for the sake of the interest of one of the majority parties. There is not a single reason, in fact, neither constitutional nor established practice, nor common sense on the basis of which one can try as you are doing, to limit the right to deepen and to the awareness of the vote that all Italians should have, both those who live in the Italian peninsula and those who live abroad, which are almost 5 million. Well, this means to despise the Italians and not to take account of the collective interest, subordinate to a partisan interest what should instead be shared. I should like to conclude by saying that my colleague, Mr Romeo, said just now that you needed our votes on the budgetary deviation and we gave them to you, because we have the sense of the State and, above all, our priority is the interest of the Italians, not that of Forza Italia, ladies and gentlemen. [[Applause.]] We have demonstrated this on this occasion, not you, dear Minister: you are subjecting to your shop interests a national interest, that of achieving in a democratic and free way, as has always been, even in the darkest and most difficult moments of this nation, the conscience of all Italian citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, what can be said more then? Even when we offered you the olive branch, you took it, broke it and threw it in the trash! We cannot go on like this, not even for a person like me, always dedicated to negotiation, transaction and the will to find an agreement anyway: even on an occasion like this, dear Undersecretary, you who are a Christian Democrat, how can you accept such a thing? Forgive me, but remember what it was and the teaching of his fathers. You are also a Venetian: do you remember when Veneto was a white region? Take all this into account. It is right that Italians should know this: an attitude of this nature is no longer acceptable. Forza Italia, of course, can only vote against the confidence in this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u134	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u137	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that in these few minutes we must try to reason that this measure must be brought back into a quieter debate. There is no doubt that it has been tense hours and difficult days, but the measure under consideration has arrived in the Senate - and we all know this - after a debate in the House very long, complex and complex, which has also allowed the opposition to play its role, at some time even in an excessive way, with a very pushed obstructionism. Let us not forget, however, that the debate held in the Chamber also led to the improvement of certain points, as the Government said earlier: the redefinition of the electoral window, with regard to administrative matters, was also possible thanks to an amendment by Forza Italia. So there was a path, I wouldn't say participated, but that somehow wanted to collect a part of the suggestions. Basically, however, we must also include this measure in the exceptionality of the moment that struck the country, as was mentioned this morning in many interventions, which led to the closure of schools and restrictions of freedom as never before. The same electoral consultations, which should have taken place this spring, needed a shift in order to adapt to the critical situation of the moment. The measure in question redefines the windows in which the electoral meetings can be held and by which the day of the elections can be fixed, because the decree establishes and articulates the electoral windows but does not define the day of the elections which, as far as regional elections are concerned, falls within the competence of the regions, which maintain their power - there would be no more - as provided for in the Constitution in Article 122. So there is only redefined a possible space in which to hold the elections. There is the element, which has also created debate and contradictions, with different points of view, of the amalgamation of the electoral day for the administration with the constitutional referendum and I would say that there is a principle of political opportunity, which I can also share as a basic concept. At other times we would not have chosen the way of merging the referendum with the local elections; at this particular moment I think it is a common sense choice. Unconstitutionality is an issue that is not there: there is no constitutional rule and not even an ordinary rule that prevents the amalgamation of administrative consultations with the referendum. We believe it is right to predict this amalgamation, this election day, because it will allow at least one day or one Sunday of possible electoral consultations to be eliminated, because there will be the first round of the local elections, which will also see the referendum merged, and then the eventual balloting for some municipalities, which will not be so many, as was explained yesterday by the Undersecretary, among the 1,400 municipalities called to the elections. I therefore believe that the scheme that this decree-law has built is to be shared and supported as a general facility. The issue of trust has choked the debate and has poisoned it in some way, but the tight times, since the decree expires tomorrow, imposed an acceleration and it was not possible a different path. I therefore believe that it is right to support the measure, which is important. There is also a theme to be analyzed in the queue. The rule, I repeat, reduces the possible opening of electoral seats by one day, especially in the face of the question of schools, which is very important. We know that 54,000 of the 61,000 electoral sections are in schools. It is a slippery subject and we must work in these future weeks to create alternative places for elections, but it is not easy or obvious. It is an issue that is present and I believe it is at the heart of Parliament as a whole. Together with the majority, we have tabled an agenda that pushed for alternative places to be held in elections, but it is not easy to identify possible solutions. I believe that, when all these reflections have been made, it is necessary to have common sense and to proceed with the support of this measure by voting in favour of the question of trust that has been raised. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u140	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we, the Senators of the 1st Commission, are also very sorry that we have not been able, on this decree-law, not so much to hold a debate - which has been held in the Commission and for which I thank my colleagues from the opposition and the majority and the Undersecretary - as to introduce any changes. However, I would like to point out here - and I am addressing my fellow Members of the opposition - that this element, which is certainly a serious element to think about and which also applies to other measures, is not a responsibility that we can put before the majority. In fact, everyone must assume their responsibilities for the dynamics and for what happened also to the House. For Christ's sake, Brothers of Italy and other political forces of the opposition wanted to do obstructionism: very well, they would have expressed themselves to the full - it is their right to do so - to the House, but it is clear that this then becomes a problem for the Senate that had very few hours in order to be able to convert the decree-law into law. I believe that many of us in the majority would have thought it appropriate to make amendments, I repeat, also on the subject of the decree-law. Let us be clear: always in the exceptional situation in which we live, we started from the fact that many regions (without distinction between those of center-right and those of center-left) would have wanted to vote in July. This is history, in a difficult situation like the one we still live in. We are still receiving reports of positive cases, as you can see: the emergency has not passed. If we continue to think that the epidemic is a closed chapter we are completely wrong and every day - alas - we confirm that we are not yet out of it and that, therefore, we must be very careful. We started from those demands. Now, the discussions that have been held on the decree-law and the changes that have been introduced to the House and that now recalled the colleague of Italia Viva were somehow a meeting point between different needs. In fact, if we ask each of the senators, even the political forces that make up the majority, if they are satisfied with that date, you will see that many will say that they are not because this was finally a meeting point. There is one issue that has been very passionate about the debate in the Commission and that I think is absolutely worthy of further consideration. It is not a trivial issue. I am referring to the idea of merging in the election day the celebration of the constitutional referendum with the elections. The reason is not economic in nature, I want to clarify it: here too, the fact that the dates are combined depends, only for this time, on the condition of precaution and exceptionality in which we are. Even the window identified coincides with this requirement, because it was the one that was open and that was possible. Of course, the subject is there, but - I would like to say this - it is not that of coincidence with the elections that can influence the outcome of the referendum, because there is no quorum here. The outcome of the referendum is linked to the situation and the political climate; this has happened in all referendums. Think of the 2016 one: he started triumphant and ended up losing. So, as you understand, that's the problem. I therefore believe in a commitment - which we as a majority take - to very precise information: there must also be a capacity for transmission, communication and debate on the referendum much stronger and also strengthened than the broadcasts that were planned. This is a commitment that we as a majority have also made in the Commission. That is the fundamental question: the election campaign and the information to be given to prevent the referendum from going into the background. Having said that, I would also like to talk about the issue of signatures, which we must solve once and for all: we can no longer continue with this history of collecting signatures. We have to find a method; we have done distance learning and we cannot do signature collection and submit lists online as well. On this too we will probably have to intervene and resolve this issue once and for all. I therefore announce the vote in favour of confidence in the decree-law under consideration by the Senators of the Free and Equal Group and many Senators of the Mixed Group. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u143	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, taking the floor for a few minutes of explanation of vote, as with the agreements that have taken place at the Conference of Leaders, I would like to express a few simple concepts, the first of which is that I think there are two distortions of reality that are likely to pollute our debate. The first distortion concerns the fact that we cannot pretend that we are not in an exceptional period of our country's history and that we do not have behind us a period that lasted a few months entirely extraordinary for the concerns it caused, for the mourning it caused and for the limitations it created in people's lives. The second distortion of reality has to do with the fact that we cannot pretend, in the most absolute way, that in our country there is the rhetoric of the mortified Parliament, of the Senate, or even of authoritarian democracy, that we have happened in our lives - let us consider this a fortune - to hear quoted by those who have already invoked full powers. Here, this fiction does not help us to frame the problems in their reality. And then there is also an attempt to pretend not to know what happened in the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, where the times of the debate (it is witnessed by the Undersecretary Variati) have extended far beyond what the majority and the Democratic Party I represent wanted, not for a will of the majority, but for a strongly obstructive behavior that the opposition felt to adopt in that branch of Parliament. If we do not take account of these two facts, which are incontrovertible, we risk simply reaching false conclusions and we risk painting as a demonstration of arrogance and forcefulness that is actually an act of common sense. I try to explain why this decree-law is, in our view, an act of common sense. It represents it with regard to the decision to contain as much as possible the number of times we call so many people to enter places such as the electoral sections which, according to the Technical and Scientific Committee, can create a health risk. It is also an act of common sense for the decision to merge the referendum with the regional elections. As far as the first question is concerned, it is logical that we should take into account what the Committee has pointed out and that we should minimise the risk as much as possible. As far as the referendum is concerned, it is clear that we do so without this being a precedent, because of exceptional circumstances, and because we think that when there is a condition that has the characteristics of a one-off situation, it is logical to make choices that have the characteristics of one-off solutions. There is therefore no desire to obscure the debate on the referendum, nor do I think there is any pretext or motive to talk about constitutional illegitimacy. From this point of view, I would urge the promoters of the referendum to have, on the one hand, more confidence in their arguments, because it is sad to see that they rely only on a very low turnout to win; on the other hand, I believe that they should have more confidence in the intelligence of the citizens who, even if they go to vote together for referendums and regional elections, are perfectly able to distinguish the merit of the two measures. It seems to me important that in the Commission - I am running out of time because time is running out - an agenda has been adopted which provides for the Government's commitment to assess the possibility of holding electoral operations in locations other than schools (we all know that this would be very appropriate, but we also know that it is very difficult); I have no concerns as to whether the possibility for Italians abroad to exercise their right to vote, because their right to vote takes place in different ways from those concerning Italian citizens and I think that the Government will be able to do anything to prevent there being limitations. I do not share the view that if we are to present the lists in August - as Senator Bonino said - there is a violation of citizens' rights of political participation. In short, we are talking about factories that remain open in August and the organs of democracy that must carry out their work in August; I think that in August we can also collect signatures especially if, as the Government correctly predicted, the required number is reduced by two thirds compared to the norm. This too seems to me to be an effort to emphasize. It is therefore an act of common sense, no forcing, in the belief that a path has been taken in response to exceptional but balanced and intellectually honest circumstances. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u146	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we probably needed Covid-19 to find out what our President-in-Office's prerogatives were, what his ambitions were, what his feelings were. Evidently he felt and felt a man only at the command, a man who tries to save the form, with invitations to oppositions to participate in tables that then prove absolutely useless because of the impossibility or the unwillingness to accept advice and suggestions; the man who decides without listening to anyone. We attended the DCCM season, announced with great clamor, preceded by completed press conferences, even skilfully moved in a strategic way of a few ten minutes to attract more attention of the Italians who expected the "verb" from that President of the Council. Then, someone told him that he could not - with the DPCM - mayor and limit constitutional freedoms, for which there was the reserve of law, and then we went from the DPCM to the decree-laws. Yet both the DPCM and the decree-laws have a common denominator: they delegitimate and exonerate the functions of Parliament. [[Applause.]] (at 5 p.m.) (VITAL follow-up). I am not surprised by the attitude of a partner of this majority, the Democratic Party, who over the past ten to twelve years has accustomed us to the constant and repeated recourse to the decree-laws. If we were in a criminal trial - unfortunately, I am a lawyer and sometimes I let myself go - and we had to define the attitude of the Democratic Party, we would define it as the behavior of a repeated and infraquennial relapse for the ability to exploit and use the decree of urgency. [[Applause.]] I complain instead of the 5 Star Movement, which made Parliament's right of representation and legislative function a battlehorse, that Movement which has occupied this House and that of the Chamber of Deputies several times and which has directed vulgar and violent epithets against the Democratic Party, guilty of usurping the institutions. Today that 5 Star Movement not only passively assists in this way, but becomes its protagonist, together with the Democratic Party. Congratulations! It's true, the power wears down those who don't have it. Now the Movimento 5 Stars has it and abuses it even worse than they did before. It remains to be clarified what your voters think, those who have believed in change. I obviously do not agree very much with you if it is true, as it is true, that in two years of bad government you have lost more than 50% of the consensus. Anyway, happy with you, happy with everyone. Parliament's delegitimacy - the one you are pervicaciously pursuing - is manifested not only in the use and abuse of the decree-law, which presupposes reasons of urgency which are often imaginative, but also in the way in which this prerogative is exercised, which then became an abuse. You present mainly your decrees-laws to the Chamber of Deputies and make sure that they arrive at the Senate in an armored manner, with a vote of confidence, preventing a discussion and deepening and even making some changes. [[Applause]] This Senate has only become an observer, not even a Parliament because we cannot even speak. Are you anticipating monocameralism? Then say it and do a constitutional reform, completely eliminate the Senate and so we don't talk about it anymore. I want to focus on a substantive issue before we go into the substance of the measure. The substantive question, which I have not seen raised in these by anyone, is as follows. Law No 225 of 24 February 1992 fixed a gap in our Constitutional Charter, which provided for the declaration of the state of emergency only when the state of war had occurred. In fact, it was not a shortcoming, as at that time it was unimaginable that one could think of an epidemic or other contingent situations. Well, Law 225 has established other hypotheses in which it is possible to declare the state of emergency, including the pandemic. On 31 January, the Council of Ministers rightly stated that the state of emergency was too late until 31 July 2020. It is known that with the state of emergency certain constitutional rights, such as the exercise of the popular vote, are restricted, compressed or even suspended. By logic and law, this suspension, at least with regard to the exercise of regional, municipal and national supplementary votes, will end on 31 July 2020. You, with a decree-law of last April, take initiatives justified by the emergency that will end on 31 July 2020. The measure will take effect after the date set by the Council of Ministers, by which the state of emergency will end, but with the assumption of emergency. You not only rape the institutions, but you are also a mess because it would have been enough to extend the state of emergency with a legislative measure. When someone, within the Government, has caused the possibility that the so-called re-launch decree could also provide for the extension of the state of emergency until December 31, 2021, it was enough that a series of illustrious constitutionalists excavated the impponibility of this possibility to return with their feet on the earth. The decree-law relaunched extends some measures, not extends - it could not and did not - the expiry of the state of emergency. And then the problem I raised - which is a problem of legitimacy - remains in all its concreteness, but so much so. To establish the regional election of 2021 in September I do not know whether to define it as a sloppy or a biased political calculation. Certainly, however, combining this consultation with that referendum is a liberticidal act of political freedom and the exercise of the vote by citizens. [[Applause]] Mixing a political vote with a constitutional vote is worthy of the worst regime, on the contrary, it is worse than the worst regime. Some say that our Constitution does not prevent us from combining regional elections with an advisory referendum. It is true, but our constituent Fathers were so wise and so intelligent that they did not imagine that those who followed them would make rag paper of wisdom and also of respect for the law. Administrative election, regional election is a political vote, consultative referendum, all the more so being without quorum, is a constitutional vote and therefore could not and should not be put together. There was no need for the Constitutional Charter to ban it. Even establishing regional elections on 20 and 21 September is neither an intelligent nor an appropriate act. Let us start from the assumption that until 31 July it would not have been possible to hold the elections, this for good peace of some Presidents of the Region, even some of our friends who vehemently argued that it would have been possible to vote in July, because in the presence of a measure that establishes the state of emergency until 31 July no activity would have been possible. But we do not understand why we should vote on 20 and 21 September, by subtracting and compressing a political debate. When is the election campaign going to take place? Under the umbrellas? It's a sneaky way. Then he joined the referendum... president. Senator, I invite you to conclude. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). I shall conclude, Mr President, also because I see that these matters are of no interest to anyone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's a bit of a busy day. I think we're all interested. Please conclude. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). I'm not mad at you, ma'am. It's no use wasting your breath. We will not vote in favour of the decree-law on our examination and we hope that we will change the register and that the President of the Council and its majority will do less talk shows, fewer catwalks and more tables and not with the experts, because it is the policy that must guide the experts, the experts can be consultants but they cannot determine the choices that belong to politics. And then either you change the register or, in my opinion, in September this Government will certainly not have the strength to resist under the pressure, protest and reactions of the citizens, who are now tired of a way of ruling made of chatter and badges. We advance the vote against the decree-law to our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u148	I ask the House to respect the speaker who is speaking and to be silent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u149	You have the floor, Senator Augussori. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, when examining the decree before we examine it, it is necessary to deal with the method. We come to the final vote, and therefore to the final adoption of a law, after less than fifty hours that the latter has entered this branch of Parliament. This is done without the Commission having finished its work, without a single amending proposal being examined, without the rapporteur and, of course, with the vote of confidence (why do we miss it?). All this with a government and a majority - we have seen it today - in enormous difficulty and with the water to the throat, seen the risk of the decadence of the decree-law tomorrow. In the electoral matter, which is that of the common rules of the game, the ground from which the plan of democracy must grow, you have not only acted by government decree, but in fact prevented the Senate from any kind of intervention. Once again - as if it were not enough for the 20 and more trustworthy requests, now a fixed appointment of every week and this week you even give us the encore - a branch of Parliament is prevented from entering into the substance of a measure which, as I said, is important and very delicate. Premier Conte or Count Premier, as he may prefer to be called, since he brings his court together in a noble villa, blissing himself with his full powers - he, yes, has and has had them - thought he could transform the masks that we wear every day into bibs. He's using the Covid, the widespread fear and the dead that have been there to gag the opposition, Parliament and the country. [[Applause.]] We are protesting today with a loud voice and doing so here in Parliament, now, and we will do so more and more in the streets starting in the coming weeks. This time you have surpassed yourselves because you not only trample on Parliament, but you have also disregarded the comparison with the regions and local authorities, which are the subjects to which the decree-law referred. The 5 Star Movement has even attempted to prevent our Committee on Constitutional Affairs from holding hearings with representatives of the Regions and Municipalities; the sacrosanct right of opposition has only been done thanks - and it must be acknowledged - to the mediation intervention of the leader of the Democratic Party, Senator Parrini. I can define the management of the measure as a missed opportunity. After so many decree-laws and decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers with a constitutional profile at least doubtful, this was an opportunity to work on a shared platform, because no political force can deny that regulatory action was necessary. Because of the postponement of the elections, we had to intervene. It was in fact a due act. So not only has dialogue been lacking, but there has been a lack of first of all the desire to seek dialogue; this is what we blame most of all on the majority. There are three issues that are left unfinished. The first: it is established that the regional and administrative elections will take place on 20 September, the date between the Ferragostan period and the health hazard reported by the Technical and Scientific Committee of a possible return of the Covid from October. But what is this alarm based on? Not on scientific data or epidemiological projections, but on what our grandmothers could safely say: from October the temperatures begin to fall and therefore it is easier to get sick. Count's dozens and dozens of advisors don't go beyond a wool sweater that's cold. That's what they tell us. The elections, however, and I am addressing my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars in particular, are not a matter limited to voting day, a click day on an Internet platform. The elections are a democratic path of forty, fifty and more days than in addition to the bureaucratic deadlines, among which this morning Senator Bonino recalled the collection of signatures, and everything around the preparation of the lists and the choice of candidates, provides for a direct confrontation with the electorate for an appropriate period to determine the conviction of the conscious vote. This obviously does not agree with the month of August. The second issue, as has already been pointed out by other colleagues, is the central problem of the measure, namely the overlapping of the constitutional referendum. The sacredness of the time when voters determine whether the Constitutional Charter should be corrected should suffer as little pollution as possible from other electoral campaigns. All the precedents go in this direction and it has never happened that the referendum provided for in Article 138 was combined with other consultations. The existence of a cross-impact on the outcome is evident and we will have the counterproof, yes, regular in the practical effects. There will be an abnormal distortion of turnout, due to the asymmetry resulting from the fact that only six regions are called to vote and not the entire electoral body as in a political or European election. Let us have the courage to say openly that the choice to merge is due only to reasons of low politics, because a very precise political force of the majority supposes to take advantage by catalyzing on itself a greater number of votes to the detriment of the other political forces of the government area. Another scandalous thing is that it is decided to postpone to 2021 the votes of the municipalities of Rome, which were dissolved because the president of the 5 Stars was distrusted by its majority, but with the paradox that he was later mentioned himself as commissioner by the mayor Rays. In the face of the risk that those Municipalities will pass to the center-right, you prefer that they remain governed by one person, however distrusted by the representatives of the citizens. If then the need to vote at the end of the summer is to avoid a fallback of the Covid expected in the autumn, then, as happened in this 2020, the eventual elections next spring would also be at risk. So you want to leave these commissioners for two years without giving the voters the floor again? The attachment to the chair to the umpteenth power! [[Applause]] The last issue that remains unresolved - and I shall conclude - is the one linked to the proper functioning of schools. The Minister of Education assumes as the opening date of the schools on 14 September. The schools should be immediately closed for the elections of 20, with necessary preventive sanitization; then there will be another sanitization, a few days of school activity and then another closure for the ballot, with its double sanitization, before and after. So in the first month of school students could attend for no more than five or six days: totally unacceptable. Just as it is difficult to implement voting operations in buildings other than schools, as some even suggested earlier. We ask you to speak with us, at least among you Ministers of this Giallorossi Government, at least to avoid Minister Azzolina's umpteenth figure. [[Applause]] I should like to conclude, Mr President, by pointing out that, for all these reasons, the Lega-Salvini Premier Group will vote 'no' to this Government's request for confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u152	GARRUTI (M5S). Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, with this decree-law we re-establish the way in which the electoral consultations should have been conducted democratically, which should have been held in the spring, and we do so in accordance with the health security rules. We should all have supported with conviction a measure that has been improved in the transition to the House, thanks to the dialogue and the contribution of the oppositions. But also on this decree-law, which concerns the most important moment in the democratic life of a country, I have found the enormous ability of colleagues in the alleged search for the element of controversy that does not benefit anyone, first of all the country. We come from a very painful, unpredictable and unimaginable period in its scope. Now that we have entered a phase in which we are trying hard to find a restart in all sectors, the institutions and democracy must also give a signal. I, too, personally - I confess - am not happy to have to face a blocked provision in the Senate in a few hours. Sometimes the same has happened to my colleagues in the House, but it certainly consoles me that there has been the full centrality of Parliament in the transition to the House, during which the deepening of some key issues has allowed a constructive exchange between majority and minority, which I would like to see always in the two branches of Parliament; except then I must immediately rethink with the obstructionism of the House by the Brothers of Italy Group, now absent, and with the alleged questions of prejudice presented here in the Senate. Reading the questions referred for a preliminary ruling known as the derogation from the current legislation, which provides for the holding of elections on Sunday alone: it seems almost sacrilege. Too bad that this was only intended to ensure the best sanitary conditions for the completion of the vote and to avoid as much as possible assembly in a context in which it is unpredictable to determine the evolution of the epidemiological emergency. In the time window outlined by the decree-law he discussed the choice of the first useful Sunday, the result of both the opinion of the technical-scientific committee, which recommended the completion of the elections in September, and the need not to go too far with the hypothetical ballots in the second round. Again, there has been talk of an attack on democracy, as if the one-week shift could change the fate and democratic development of free and democratic elections. I read, again from the prejudices, that there would be the real risk of a serious and unacceptable compromise of the electoral campaign, also given the narrowness of the times foreshadowed and an intolerable pollution of the electoral debate, with a consequent difficulty for the electoral citizen who would, in fact, be in poor conditions to decide consciously and informedly, having to choose between different and heterogeneous elements operating on different plans (political, constitutional, institutional and local). With this statement, I read among your lines that the citizen is unable to understand the difference between regional elections and the vote on the confirmed referendum on the constitutional change. Do you really think that the citizen does not know how to distinguish the vote and modulate it according to his own object? By the way, if the election day were to encourage greater participation, then let's do it. There would be no manipulation of the referendum, since there is no structural quorum. Paradoxically - for those who still have the patience to listen - I wanted to point out that, according to this reasoning, the Republic was also born in an election day (June 2, 1946), when the Italians voted for the referendum on the choice between Republic and Monarchy and, at the same time, for the composition of the constituent Assembly. In your opinion, would there have been a distortion of the will of the electoral corps because the votes were merged? Well, in any case, we are aware of the particular context in which the next election rounds will take place. Always with a view to ensuring a fair procedure, we reiterated in the decree the strengthening of the par condicio in order to guarantee, especially to those who are not to the government in that particular region and in that particular municipality, equal access to the instruments of the electoral campaign in the thirty canonical days. That is why I am voting in favour of my Group. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u153	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u154	I would like to point out the vote on the single article of bill No. 1845, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 26 of 20 April 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her post by declaring his/her vote. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Anastasi is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Anastasi. Montevecchi, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 5 p.m.48 p.m. - at 5 p.m. - 5.50 p.m.). Senators say yes: Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Country, Casini, Castaloni, Castellone, Pickle, Catalfo, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Corbetta, Corrado, Crimi, Croatti, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Angelo, Evangelista Faraone, Fedeli, Fenu, Ferrara, Ferrazzi, Floridia Gallicchio, Garavi, Garruti, Gaudiano, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Girolinieri, Ferrara, Ferrazzi Senators say no: Bonino Richetti. (Senator Nencini says he does not take part in the vote.) PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of bill No. 1845, of conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 26 of 20 April 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 149 Senators voting 147 Majority 74 Favorables 145 Contrars 2]] The Senate approves. [[Applause]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 26.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u155	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u156	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u157	THE MURA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, something in some parts of the country is really changing. I am referring specifically to the Sarno River and the vast territory it crosses. It is a river of crucial importance for Campania, the only river park of the Region and known everywhere as one of the most polluted in Europe. The catchment area of Sarno extends from the Picentini mountains to the Gulf of Naples, involving 39 municipalities and a population of about one million people. For too many years nothing or very little has been done, despite the fact that about EUR 1 billion has been spent on direct and indirect costs of pollution, not to mention the economic losses in the production chains of beekeeping, culture and tourism among those with the highest added value. That little certainly went in the opposite direction to the real requirements of the life itself of the river and the population. Nothing has been done to restore legality and nothing to investigate the real polluters. The situation is still very serious. Only a few days ago, at the mouth of Sarno was found a lifeless sea turtle due to the ingestion of plastic materials transported to the sea by the river. However, the first results begin to arrive: from the end of the lockdown there are already at least 48 people reported, numerous violations and illegal discharges seized. A great impulse to the controls was certainly due to the agreement strongly wanted by the minister Costa, signed between the Authority of Basin and the Command of the Carabinieri of the Operating Core for the Environment (NOE), within the framework of the masterplan that sees the collaboration of the Minister with the Region and the local authorities in a plan of requalification in the perspective of loyal institutional collaboration. The closure of lockdown activities has returned the waters of the transparent river to the citizens, as many of us had never seen before. Data from the Regional Agency for Environmental Protection in Campania (ARPAC) also show that the presence of polluting material has declined considerably during that period. At the reopening of the activities, I presented a parliamentary question with my colleagues to Minister Costa to focus on the tanning pole of Solofra and beyond: in the question we denounced the impacting materials for the environment used in the industrial process and therefore at risk; materials found in part by the military during the controls in some companies and promptly seized. The direct line between the citizens, the parliamentarians of the territory and the government is working. The great work we are doing for the masterplan of the Sarno river, which will put together concrete strategies for the redevelopment of the entire area, will be the decisive move to finally reverse the course. I therefore thank Minister Costa and all the Forces of the Order engaged in constant controls, Dr Vera Corbelli, general secretary of the watershed district of the Southern Apennines. And above all, I would like to thank the citizens who continue to fight and not to give up their grip, hoping soon to be able together to give back to everyone what should be an inalienable right: the right to the protection of the public good and the health of citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u158	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-231.ana.u159	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 23 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.19 a.m.
