ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-01682 on the treatment of patients with chronic primary infidelities. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u4	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Professor Binetti for presenting the question, which gives me the opportunity to respond to a problem that is very much felt by doctors, surgeons and patients. With regard to the issue outlined in the parliamentary question, I would remind you that access to the treatment provided for under the Essential levels of care (LEA) is always guaranteed to those who are members of the National Health Service, even if they are not exempt, in accordance with criteria of effectiveness and appropriateness in relation to individual clinical conditions. In particular, rehabilitation benefits are included in the LEA and their provision is entrusted to the competence of the individual regions through the local health companies. The emergency of impediments to delivery can be attributed to regional and local organizational difficulties. On the substance of the question raised, it is noted that the dispensation of elasto-compressive sheaths is provided for in Annex 5 to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 12 January 2017 on the definition and updating of the LEAs, whose effective entry into force, however, remains conditional on the final and transitional provisions of the same decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which provide for the adoption of a decree of the Minister of Health, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance, defining the rates of the same services. It should also be said that the provisions governing access to the National Health Service do not provide for the post-payment of benefits provided in private areas, especially if not included in the LEA. The same Directive No 24 of 2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 March 2011 on the application of patients' rights in cross-border healthcare provides for the reimbursement of benefits provided abroad, in the European Union, also by private facilities, provided that they are included in the LEA. I conclude by reassuring the Senator that she will be committed by the Ministry of Health, waiting for the relevance of the issue under consideration and in view of the legitimate expectations of the patients involved, compatible with the activities aimed at dealing with the current emergency, to ensure quickly, through the definition of the above rates, the dispensation of elasto-compressive sheaths. I would add one thing, however, because, as a doctor and a surgeon, reading this question, if I had asked the President and I had asked for my degree of satisfaction with the answer, I would have said that I was not entirely satisfied. So before you say it, Senator Binetti, I add two elements. The first is that it will be my concern to promote the development of a territorial network, which is basically lacking, especially when it comes to rare diseases. Patients and families spend money moving around and have problems with their work, because they often don't know where to go. There is certainly a need for a better circulation of information, and who better than the Ministry, on its site and in its headquarters, can help them to be conveyed and redistributed to the suburbs? Similarly, on the periphery, the clinical and diagnostic routes of taking care, care and rehabilitation must be made unique, so that throughout the national health system - and therefore in the various regions - there is a uniformity of care. It will be my commitment to ensure that this network brings trust, protection and security to operators (who deal with primary infidelities, so that they come into contact with those suffering from secondary infidelities, and therefore there may be a share of information that translates into safety for operators and, even more, for family members) and facilitates the usability of information. I believe that this has perhaps been missing more in the past years, because, when there is information and information transmission, everything becomes much simpler. So, it's just a lack of information. It will therefore be my concern to keep an eye on this aspect. I give you a deadline of six months from today, inviting you to resubmit the question at the end of this period, to see the results obtained.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u7	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, thank you for having spared me saying that I am partially satisfied, in the sense that my satisfaction goes to the hope that you wanted to transfer us with your last words. I'll take the question back to you in six months. In the meantime, however, I will present it to you more or less a week, with more attention to rare patients. You know, Mr Deputy Minister, since we have talked about this many times, that we are waiting for two important points of reference. On the one hand, I would ask you to speed up the adoption of the draft law on rare diseases in the House of Deputies. The measure is a matter for Parliament and will then have to go to the Senate, where we will do our work. The second measure, as you know, is instead of its very strict competence and is the National Rare Disease Plan, which expired in 2016, but - in fact - we can say that it has been frozen since 2013, the year it was drawn up. Then we were among the first in Europe to have a National Rare Disease Plan and now we have been a bit like taillights. Sold concretely to patients who have this form of chronic primary lymphedema (as you know best, the strange word "primary" means that we still do not know what causes the lymphedema to originate), they complain three things. The first, which he stressed and which is common to many rare diseases, is that patients do not intercept really competent people in the knowledge of the problem and the possible solutions that arise. We need to increase the level of knowledge of rare diseases through both the curriculum of ordinary studies of the Faculty of Medicine and the various specialist branches. That is the first point. The doctor's ignorance of the disease adds frustration to frustration for the sick person. The second point, which you also touched on, Mr Vice-Minister, is the cost of what we call non-pharmacological remedies. It is easier to prescribe a medicine, even if it is expensive, rather than, as in this precise case, an elasticated sheath. What are these stretch sheaths? We all perhaps have in mind the sheath that, after breast cancer surgery, is used to prevent swelling of the arm. These are really expensive objects: when the patient cannot afford them, they become discriminating against the quality of health (which we do not want, precisely because our national health system is free and universal). Why do patients have to or try to access the private to get the prescription? Simply because in the audience they do not find, at that time, the knowledge of the problem, the sensitivity towards the disease and the timeliness in the response. We therefore need to facilitate a certain type of agreement, because the sick cannot do without these sheaths. I don't mean they're the same as a life-saving drug, but they become a vital drug for the quality of life of these patients. We absolutely must be able to facilitate the patient, so that he does not have problems when he needs the sheath, just as a patient carrying any disability must not have problems, if he needs a wheelchair or any other help. We must therefore facilitate the path for these patients. Keep in mind that we do not have real remedies, but only tools that facilitate quality of life and we cannot Deny them. This is one of the objectives. The third aspect, which you, Mr. Deputy Minister, have illustrated very well, is what we often see whenever we complain about the existence of 20 regional health systems that, in some way, discriminate a patient from region to region (so we hope that the Ministry will summarize this competence). Now, in the case of rare diseases, we need a strong management booth in the Ministry and then specialized centres at regional level. This system, which we call top-down, is its responsibility. So in six months' time, I will be resuming the same question and, in the meantime, I will present it to you on time for so many rare diseases and for so many rare patients who are waiting for an answer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u8	Questions 3-01434 and 3-01589 on wildlife damage to agriculture follow. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem raised by the interrogators has long been for the attention of the Government and this Ministry, given the objective of preparing a package of measures aimed at making more effective the instruments of contrast to the increase in the populations of wild egg products, to which it must now be given concrete form also through an amendment to Law No 157 of 1992. However, it should be noted that, in view of the regional competences in this area, some regions are regulating the selection of wild game species, even outside the periods and times referred to in Law No 157 of 1992, through the preparation, in accordance with Law No 284 of 2005 and after consulting the ISPRA (Higher Institute for Environmental Protection and Research), of appropriate selective slaughter plans, distinguished by gender and age classes, including by specially qualified hunters. Again in this regard, I would like to point out that the House of Deputies is considering the proposal for Law No 982, which provides for support and simplification for the agricultural sector, which introduces measures to facilitate further containment measures, including the extension of the time frame in which selection is authorised. In agreement with the Ministry of the Environment and the Protection of the Territory and the Sea, a working group was set up to formulate proposals for the adaptation of the regulatory and sanctioning framework for wildlife damage, which presented a final report containing certain lines of action currently to the attention of the competent Ministers. Among the proposals put forward, taking into account also the small number of staff of regional and provincial administrations, it has been highlighted the need for other specialized figures to be allowed to carry out numerical control activities of the fauna species, through coadjutors trained through special courses validated by ISPRA. The above also appears to be functional for the purpose of effectively implementing the surveillance and prevention plan in Italy and the eradication plan in Regione Sardegna for 2020, prepared by the Ministry of Health and aimed at protecting the national pig population from the risk of transmission of the swine fever virus. As regards the problems relating to the compensation of damages in the agricultural sector, the administration has notified the European Commission of a draft interministerial decree governing the arrangements for granting aid for preventive measures and compensation for damage caused by wild fauna to agricultural production, according to the indications and criteria set out in the European Union guidelines for State aid in the agricultural and forestry sectors and rural areas for the period 2014-2020. By Decision C 2019/98522 final of the European Commission of 21 November 2019, that aid scheme was approved. In fact, the aforementioned decree provides for the possibility of compensation for damages only to companies active in primary agricultural production, caused to animal equipment and infrastructure by any animal that is protected by EU or national legislation, thus also considering species other than those identified by the Habitats and Birds Directives (e.g. wild boar and other huntable species), the damages of which can be compensated, provided that they occur on the territory of a protected area. On the other hand, as regards damage caused by unprotected animals in unprotected areas themselves, compensation can only be made through de minimis aid. In this context, as a result of the amendment to EU Regulation 1408/2013, the limit on de minimis aid per company was raised to EUR 25,000. This measure, jointly signed by the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of Land and Sea, constitutes the legal basis of the aid scheme and is currently under consideration by the Minister for the Environment and the Protection of Land and Sea. Finally, the possibility of identifying a national fund that combines regional funds to deal with damage caused by wildlife should be considered in relation to the different priorities for action and its compatibility with public finance requirements. Thus, given the above, in order to implement the general principles of reform of Law No 157 of 1992 in the desired sense, the commitment is confirmed to proceed, while respecting the role of all institutional competences, towards the objective of achieving the definition of a new regulatory framework in this field, capable of protecting public safety and agricultural production.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u12	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, before I begin my reply, allow me to express the solidarity and closeness of us present to the senator and our federal secretary Matteo Salvini for what happened yesterday in Pontassieve in Tuscany, where he was attacked during a democratic activity of meeting with the citizens. Allow me to say enough to these serial haters, who are fighting political enemies, not with ideas and proposals, but with violence, which must always be condemned, especially by this House. [[Applause]] Matteo Salvini himself made the best comment a few minutes later: to the anger of a few we respond with the smile, the work and the hope of many. We share this and applaud this reflection as well. [[Applause]] Mr Undersecretary, we consider the Government's response to our question on the containment of the damage caused by wildlife to be totally inadequate. Since 1992, in which Law 157 was passed, wild boars have increased by 400 percent, roe deer by 350 percent, deer by 800 percent and wolves by over 650; the increase in their predation, carnivores, is putting family farming to the test. It is news of these days the drama that a province like Belluno is experiencing, where even a delegation led by my colleague Paolo Saviane was from the prefect to illustrate the danger for livability and for work on that territory. We must act immediately; if you do not want to listen to us who are the opposition, listen to the local institutions, because they are fundamental. As far as boars are concerned, more than 10,000 accidents have occurred in one year. Consider that not everyone denounces, because they know that they will not be compensated by now, because since 2015 there are no compensations. More than 20 people died as a result of these accidents. Today it is estimated the presence in Italy of more than two million specimens of wild boars, with 200 million euros of total damage per year. That's a hell of a number. We have already made a few requests. In all the measures since we were elected, we have proposed amendments to Law 157 of 1992. In practice, the first fundamental point is the immediate intervention for compensation, which he mentioned at the end of his speech, but there is nothing operational: compensation must be paid. The Regions are activating individually, but this is not good; there must be a direction of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea and the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policies, with certain and immediate resources for those who have suffered the damage, because these 200 million euros must be compensated. Moreover, as far as prevention and containment are concerned, appropriate policies are also needed at a selective level, as he said, but the direction must be national, because, if you leave the power to each individual region, there are some that do not intervene at all and this is dramatic, as you know better than I do. In fact, on such a delicate subject we must not leave room, also because these represent a channel of transmission of diseases to other animals, but also to man. Finally, he knows that it is necessary to regulate the marketing of the meat of the egg products resulting from the containment and the venatory levy, otherwise there is no room. In this sense, we have tabled amendments in all possible measures - we will also present them to the Decree-Law of August - aimed at providing that the meat is destined to the processing centres in compliance with the rules on health, hygiene and safety and that, if coming from hunting, there is the documentation of traceability from which the exact origin of the slaughtered animal can be reconstructed. As you know better than I, in fact, even in this field there are smarts and smarts, so we must be able to establish that the animal that will end up on the consumer's table has been thrown into Italy, in that particular place. It has been over 180 days since we tabled the question. Today we are not satisfied with the answer, Mr President, as unfortunately we must declare ourselves dissatisfied with the actions that this Government is putting in place by the promises that have never been fulfilled, especially in this area, Mr Undersecretary. Tell Minister Bellanova that before the illegals come the Italian farmers, who above all want immediate and certain answers. Facts, not words. Always before Italian farmers and those who live in poor areas. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u13	The Presidency supports its words against all violence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u16	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr Undersecretary, my question has a number of implications different from the previous one and focuses mainly on the safety of people and the need to attack the high number of wild boars present on the territory, but we can extend the speech to wolves and all those animals that, having no natural antagonists, have spread beyond measure. I would point out to you, Mr Undersecretary, that I am not a hunter and I am not a shooter, even though I am a son of a fierce hunter, but I believe that someone will have to do it in due form. I also believe that within the public administration, at the high national and regional levels - I have had comparisons on the subject - there are people who know the reality, which is not the one designed by those who live in the living rooms and have never seen a wild boar or a live wolf. While being animalists and while defending the environment with concrete facts, it may be thought that the declared number of wild boars, monitored at excessive expense by some bodies in my opinion, does not correspond to reality. There are millions of boars. I come from an area that is 30 kilometers far from the place of origin of my colleague Bergesio; we see every day situations of this type and the data he mentioned find me absolutely in agreement. I therefore think that, taking note of the working group you announced at the Ministry of the Environment - where I think there are the greatest difficulties; perhaps there are fewer in the Dicastery to which you belong - it is necessary to have an impact on Law No 157 of 1992. He said that legislation needs reform, but for now we would be content with some changes. I have presented a bill of which I leave you a copy, the Act of the Senate 1553, but the drawings of laws often remain in the drawers for years - being at my first parliamentary experience, I did not know - and then almost always get lost. I propose to amend Law 157 by adding a few words that are already sufficient to change the picture and to allow the regions, stimulated by the law, even before the news reports or the needs of their lands that they know specifically, to take certain decisions. I personally remember the decisions of officials who allow the killing of boars in the number of ten: well, with pencil I allowed myself to add two zeros, or a thousand, because talking about ten units is ridiculous; there are really many. I ask that action be taken on paragraph 2 of Article 19 (which is fundamental) of Law 157, where we talk about the ineffectiveness of the use of ecological methods - excused, but I think we can also say in the Senate that we cannot put the suppository on wild boars - so that the regions intervene not when the ISPRA verify the ineffectiveness of these natural methods, but when there are serious risks to the safety of people, after non-binding opinion of the Institute. The prior opinion to be requested from ISPRA should not be binding. Again, in the following period of the same paragraph, where it is said that the animals can be hunted and that the plans must be carried out by the hunting guards dependent on the provincial administrations, I propose to add the words "and" by the approved voluntary hunting guards and hunters. The Province of Cuneo has 17 hunting and fishing guards who, once experienced the office functions, taking into account holidays and diseases, can make three jokes a year: they have in fact managed to tear down 71 wild boars in a year, without that absolutely nothing has been resolved, I repeat, with all respect for animals, which are however meat that man feeds on. The last modification is to the fifth period of article 19, paragraph 2, of the law 11 February 1992, n. 157 and refers to the administrations that will be able to avail of the owners or conductors of the funds: it could be specified that it is the provincial administrations - because hunting is a matter that in its execution phase in Piedmont Region is the responsibility of the Provinces - so that these can adopt really effective plans. The junction, however, concerns hunters, not only landowners, as provided for by other rules, both national and regional, but all hunters, it being understood that it will then be necessary to check whether there should be a reference to the hunting season or whether it should go even further. We are not violent or cruel people: we are people who put others first, then ourselves. The last episode that I was impressed - and I conclude - is that of a forty-seven-year-old who, near Alba, finding himself in front of a wild boar, threw a scream, which must have been terrible, since the animal hit him with the snout, but without hurting him, and then escape. It could have been a very serious accident and we're talking about a person growing his own land. I therefore believe that this problem must be tackled seriously, with effective measures. Mr Secretary, I say to you that I am not satisfied not only with the answer, but above all with the way in which the majority, who make statements which do not follow the facts, dealt with this and other issues. In this case, however, we are talking about a serious problem for the safety of people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u17	Following is the question 3-01143 on the election of the summit bodies of the Aero Club of Italy. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the facts set out above, it is recalled that the Council of State, Section V, by a judgment published on 23 December 2019, No 8693, rejected the appeal of the government authorities against the judgment of the Regional Administrative Court for Lazio No 72 of 2019 and accepted the incidental appeal of the architect Giuseppe Leoni, by abolishing the principle that government administrations holding such power do not have any residual discretion, once the original applicant is in possession of the requirements for appointment and that the procedure for designating the competence of the Assembly of the Air Club d'Italia has been carried out legitimately. The above judgment has also ordered the ministerial administrations to appoint the architect Giuseppe Leoni as president of the Aero Club of Italy, where there are no preemptive circumstances, with reference to the possession of the required subjective requirements, and to any other possible profile of legitimacy, in order to formulate a proposal, pursuant to Article 21 of the decree of the President of the Republic March 18, 2013, n. 53. The Court of Appeal of Rome, the third criminal section, in reform of the sentence of conviction of first instance, acquitted the architect Giuseppe Leoni from the ascribed crime, annulling the sentence of the criminal court of Rome of 14 December 2016, because the "fact" does not constitute criminal offence, with the device of sentence made public in audience on 11 June 2019. At the expense of the architect Giuseppe Leoni had been registered three other criminal proceedings, in part having to deal with the same facts as above, all defined by decree of storage following relative request. It should also be noted that the Court of Auditors has acquitted the architect Giuseppe Leoni by judgment No 355 of 11 July 2019, while nothing appears in relation to any further irregularities that would have been found by the extraordinary Commissioner of the institution. Therefore, in accordance with the above mentioned decision of the Council of State, Section V, n. 8693 of 2019, since no grounds were found to prevent, it was followed, for the remaining period, to the shareholders' resolution of the agency n. 5 of 2017, with which the architect Giuseppe Leoni was appointed for the subsequent appointment of president of the Aero Club of Italy, pursuant to Article 21 of the Statute approved by decree of the President of the Republic 18 March 2013, n. 53. On 17 June 2020 the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers appointing the architect Giuseppe Leoni as President of the Aero Club d'Italia, registered by the Court of Auditors on 15 July 2020, was signed with sheet 1602.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u21	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his willingness to give me an answer, to which I refer, by courtesy, to be partially satisfied. First of all, the assessment of the delay in replying to an act submitted a year ago weighs on this. In the blackberries, as you said, Mr. Undersecretary, the President of the Aero Club d'Italia was again appointed in the person of architect Leoni, who is a central part of the matter. So my perplexity, with regard to the absolutely partial satisfaction, insists on the fact that there is still a clear contradiction that you have not been able to resolve today - I regret to say this -. The serious, serious and important reasons contained in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of Commissariat of the institution - I refer, for example, to the appointment of Commissioner Valori - and expressed by the vigilant ministries for which there are problems linked to the eligibility of the architect Leoni, are still valid and all on the table. Some of the facts at issue, such as the granting of a position of high professionalism in contrast to the national collective agreement of employment, or the appointment of a general manager for the benefit of persons over the age of 65 who are employed (sixty-five years), or a series of acts which, according to the dates of appointment, are null because deliberated by bodies now fallen, certainly cannot fail to affect the choice of those who are called to preside over an entity under public law. That is why - I repeat - I am absolutely dissatisfied with the answer, but I also expect the Minister to take a position, because I believe that on a body such as that for which the architect Leoni is called to an important function the Minister can and should say something more.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u22	Question 3 01519 on support for young people follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measures taken by the Government to contain the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19 have had, and in part continue to have, repercussions in particular on adolescents and children, suddenly deprived of the opportunity to go to school, to have social relations and to play sports. With reference to the first question, a legislative proposal is being considered to promote the coordination of youth policies between the different levels of government, in the context of the policies and actions envisaged by the European Union and the Council of Europe, ensuring the active participation of young people between the ages of fourteen and thirty-five years in the decision-making processes and political choices affecting them, as well as to ensure the organic review of civil service legislation and the reorganisation of civil service in order to rationalise sources and simplify the procedures of universal civil service. In addition, it is planned to set up a national youth policy table for guidance and consultation as well as monitoring and evaluation of national and territorial interventions for the benefit of the younger generations, which will be used for the planning and planning activities indicated by the honourable Member. This national table will be able to provide an appropriate response in terms of growth and implementation of youth-oriented policies that can make it possible to reaffirm the centrality of young people in the country's growth choices, by activating a decision-making system capable of grasping the opportunities for the development of youth policies through a constant link and adaptation also with the initiatives supported within the European Union and the Council of Europe. The table should, among other things, promote and promote the processes of inclusion, autonomy, protagonism and active participation of young people in the democratic process of political choice and in civil society. It would be the instrument for coordinating the various stakeholders, useful for building cross-cutting, organic and coherent youth policy interventions, both institutional and thematic, and geographical, thus avoiding overlaps, duplications and diseconomies, with a view to efficient spending and the benefits underlying it. In view of the fact that decisions taken in terms of planning and monitoring could affect actions falling within the remit of the regions and the local government system, as well as the various ministries, it is stressed its role as a guideline, coordination and monitoring of a synergistic and integrated strategy on youth policies. Therefore, the objective is that the table should be a sharing instrument capable of promoting various actions, in agreement and collaboration between the various stakeholders of direct policies and, in this sense, for its implementation and implementation, should be based on an institutional cooperation activity, which focuses on the role of the regions and the local authorities system. With regard to the second question, it is confirmed that the appropriation for 2020 of the Youth Policy Fund has a capacity for the activation of one or more initiatives specifically dedicated to young people, which can be added to those already launched by the Youth Policy Department and the universal civil service in the past years in favour of the younger generations and which are still being implemented. They call back briefly. First, the public warning "Prevention and combating youth distress" is aimed at financing actions aimed at taking action on young people in conditions of distress, promoting social inclusion and innovation. In particular, attention should be paid to the area of prevention and the fight against youth distress through the promotion of system actions on territories which, through social innovation of networking work, act to counter the exclusion and spread of risky behaviour, with reference to the identification and reintegration of young so-called NEETs (nether employment nor in education or training). Secondly, the Public Notice \'Orientation and placement of young talents' promotes actions to support the occupational integration and self-entrepreneurship of young talents, through innovative guidance and placement initiatives, from the resources of the Youth Policy Fund. In addition, public notices "Young people for social security 2018" and "Young people for the enhancement of public goods 2018" are two public notices funded under the Action and Cohesion Plan (CAP) for the financing of projects submitted by young people and private social organisations and aimed at young beneficiaries aged 14 to 35. The above notices are part of the actions aimed at young people of the non-profit for development in the Mezzogiorno. The initiative, aimed at young people under thirty-five in Southern Italy as part of the action and cohesion plan, aims to promote and support private social projects to strengthen the socio-economic cohesion of the South, through the creation of networks able to read the emerging needs and translate them into concrete, sustainable and effective project proposals. There is also the call for proposals for projects, which represents a single measure, managed by the Department for Youth Policy and Universal Civil Service and presented in 2019 in collaboration with the Department for Equal Opportunities, aimed at promoting and supporting ideas, projects and initiatives capable of activating young people in relation to the social challenges identified as priorities for the community; ensuring equality of all kinds; promoting the creation of new opportunities for inclusive participation in economic, social and democratic life for young people, also in order to promote the development and growth of the country's territories and especially those territories characterized by fewer opportunities for young people, through the facilitation of planning with a social vocation. In relation to the third question, which raises the question of what are the civil service projects to be launched in order to provide assistance and assistance to the community, it should be briefly stated that the epidemiological emergency Covid-19 has involved, among other things, a remodulation of the civil service system, in order to seek suitable solutions to ensure the continuation of activities, in compliance with the general principles of health protection and precaution. In this context, through the Department for Youth Policies and Universal Civil Service, all the necessary initiatives have been regulated with special circulars to allow the system to respond effectively to the crisis, continuing to commit, in the manner deemed appropriate by the voluntary operators of the non-armed and non-violent defence of the Homeland, which is the main aim of the civil service. The activity has been carried out in constant connection with Regions and Autonomous Provinces, with the ANCI-National Association of Italian Municipalities and with the representations of civil service agencies and voluntary operators. In particular, coinciding with the start of lockdown throughout the national territory, civil service projects were suspended for about a month (from March 10th to April 15th) and over 30,000 young volunteer operators were considered to be in extraordinary permission. During this period, however, some 3,400 volunteers continued their service as employees in organizations that are usually involved in relief and social health care, such as the Italian Red Cross, ANPAS, the Misericordie d'Italia, just to mention the main ones, but also in many municipalities. Since 16 April, civil service projects have been re-launched, proving to be valuable tools to ensure daily support and assistance to communities, in a common effort of solidarity and participation that can positively affect the good of the community. This effort has been made possible thanks to the contribution of the entire civil service system and the deep sense of the state shown by voluntary agencies and operators, who have been able to reinterpret their commitment in compliance with the precautionary rules that, although stringent, represented an unbreakable need. The progressive reactivation of the projects has been implemented by providing alongside the ordinary procedure (i.e. according to the original design objectives) also a remodulated procedure (i.e. with more or less changed objectives and consequent new activities), through modalities of development that could be in the field, remotely or in a mixed way, combining the two modes. By 16 April 2020, in the light of the appropriate assessments carried out by the institutions and in agreement with the voluntary operators, 72% of the projects were reactivated by ordinary or re-modulated procedures, compared with 28% for which it was necessary to provide for a temporary interruption. This means that, since 16 April, 23,575 young people (76 percent of the total in service) have been reactivated. Only 5,692 voluntary operators had to stop because they were unable to continue their service in the projects in which they were engaged, lacking the sufficient security conditions or the organisational and operational tools needed to repartition. Of these 23,575 volunteers, 13,044 (55%) resumed their activities suspended as they were essentially foreseen in the original projects, while 10,531 (45%) were engaged in projects that had undergone a remodulation related to the emergency situation. The next civil service projects will be launched on an ordinary basis at the beginning of 2021, in continuity with those currently underway and with an inevitable slight delay compared to previous years due to the Covid-19 emergency. On 29 May last year the deadline for institutions to present their programmes of intervention has expired, which will therefore take into account the new social and economic context that the country is living and will focus mainly on areas of action related to the assistance of the most fragile people - including adolescents and young people living in particular situations of discomfort - to educational processes, intergenerational exchanges, the resilience of communities. These programmes have been prepared in accordance with the three-year plan 2020-2022 and the annual plan 2020 for the programming of civil service interventions, which have their foundation in the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Goals, which have been transposed by our National Strategy. In particular, the bodies have submitted programmes to employ more than 67,000 volunteers; these programmes are currently being evaluated by the Department for Youth Policy and Universal Civil Service. The current financial resources available on the Fund for universal civil service, as established by the Finance Act 2019, net of the cuts made and with the increases provided by the Decree-Law adopted with reference to the current emergency, amount to about 182 million euros, plus approximately 42 million euros of residues from previous years, for a total of about 224 million euros that will be able to guarantee little less than 41,000 places, in line with last year. Thanks to the resources coming from the PON-YEI Youth Guarantee Programme, amounting to about 53 million euros, you can count on 8,300 additional places that will lead to a total quota of about 49,000 places. Further resources would enable this important institution to be further strengthened for valuable activities in a delicate post-emergency acute post-phase environment, ensuring a wider funding of the submitted programmes for a larger number of posts. It will be necessary to rebuild the social fabric of the country, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable and in this sense a greater investment in civil service will prove to be an action plan of great effectiveness for young people. Also in relation to the third question, we point out the Time to care project; a lightweight welfare initiative aimed at young people between the eighteen and thirty-five years that represent a fundamental resource for the cultural, social and economic progress of the country. Initiative aimed at promoting system actions on territories that can facilitate intergenerational exchange with home and/or distance care services of young people towards the elderly during the health emergency from Covid-19 and in the subsequent stages of transition in the management of the epidemic. In relation to the fourth question, the adoption, on the basis of available financial resources, of new initiatives to support youth entrepreneurship and young talents, in line with the public notices described above, financed by the Youth Policy Fund, is being evaluated with the competent Department, and has found a positive response among the younger generations. Finally, it should be noted for complete information that the Department for Youth Policy and Civil Service is one of the members of the National Observatory for Children and Adolescence, a body chaired by the Minister with delegation in matters of policies for the family, which has the task of preparing official documents relating to childhood and adolescence, further place of discussion and exchange of knowledge, useful for the planning of a general plan for adolescence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u24	Mr Secretary, since you will then be speaking to answer another question, I would ask you to contain your speeches within the time allowed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u27	Senator Verducci has five minutes for his speech, but we allow him a longer speech, to equalize the lack of synthesis in the Secretary's reply. Mr Verducci (PD). Mr President, I very much appreciate your attention, which I imagine is also linked to the importance of this issue. In this regard, I would like to thank the Secretary for the detail of his reply on such a crucial issue, such as what we are dealing with and which concerns the new generations and youth policies. I hope that as soon as possible we will be able to have the competent Minister in the Chamber, because there has been a generational issue in our country for too long and it is as if Covid had put this issue into fluorescence, which is among the most serious of our society. It is in fact one of the most serious inequalities and social disparities that we are called to fight and today no one can pretend not to see it anymore, because it is as if it flashed incessantly. The crisis of these months, which overlaps with a crisis that comes from too far in time, has in fact hit harder those who are most helpless, especially young people and women, and takes away confidence and future to the new generations, who already more than all pay wrong policies and the failures of the cuts to welfare - in particular to municipal welfare - to the right to study and investment for work. For far too long the mechanism has been jammed that allows those who come after to have more chance and for too long the children instead have less opportunity than the fathers: this is a betrayal of the foundations of our democracy and our republican pact. In fact, we must remove the obstacles that prevent a young person from moving forward, obstacles that these months of lockdown have magnified, in a society with too many closed doors, too many difficulties and rejections. These walls, in these months, have become even more insurmountable. It was in fact a time of great disorientation for the youngest and in particular for those who live conditions of marginality and exclusion. It is as if the mechanism of adolescence had been broken, but it is a crucial existential phase, which we must protect, because it is the one in which very often the fate of an existence is decided. Teenagers, girls and children have suddenly been deprived of the references of their own world, first of all of the possibility of going to school, of being with others, of doing sports and sociality and this for those who have no family meant losing everything, for those who live a disability or a special need is as if a vital light had been turned off. In the thought of so many of our children and young people suddenly appeared the theme of suffering, fear of contagion, death and uncertainty, entered in a bullying way, very often causing psychological discomfort. It is as if these months of blockade have broken a dynamic of individual and collective growth, which is fundamental not only for individual lives, but for the whole of our society and for its ability to progress. Before Covid-19, 1.260,000 children lived in absolute poverty, also as a result of the 2008 economic crisis. Today we know that there are many more. They are the most at risk of dispersion, school leaving and, therefore, getting lost. Closed school also meant closed canteens and gyms and, therefore, the failure of complete meals for many, a correct motor activity, a lack of learning, health and nutrition, which represent a very high and unbearable social cost. This tells us that we must become aware of all this as a vital battle for our country and for all sides. For this reason, we call on the Government, with force, a national plan for adolescence and for young people, to help the most fragile to resume the road, that prevents and contrasts youth discomfort, that binds inclusion and social innovation, that gives more strength to youth associationism, that re-launch universal civil service as a bond of solidarity communities, that supports work and initiatives of youth entrepreneurship, that gives that representation that the new generations lack, that voice that is too fragile in our country. Mr President, we have a duty to put the girls and boys of our country in a position to believe in themselves, in their talents, to be protagonists and to carry out the project of life and to this end to have also the necessary funds strategic, also using that recovery fund that bears as title, not by chance, Next Generation EU. With those funds, which we have fought in Europe to have and which represent a great result of our Government, we all have a duty to give back to the new generations the future that is theirs. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u28	The following is the question 3-01584 on the resumption of sports activities and championships. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the health emergency resulting from the outbreak of the Covid-19 epidemic, which has hit our country hard, has led, among other things, to the suspension of all sporting activities and competitions. The government line has always been, from the first day, a prudential line that has put the health of all citizens first, also and especially of all the people involved in the world of sport. As is well known, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 26 April 2020, in taking into account priority health protection needs related to the risk of spreading by Covid-19, in order to support the gradual resumption of sports activities, has allowed, from 4 May 2020, training sessions of professional athletes and non-professionals of individual sports disciplines, in compliance with the rules of social distance and without any gathering. The Sports Department, formerly the Sports Office, issued, on May 3, 2020, guidelines on how to carry out training for individual sports, a document drawn up on the impulse of the CONI and the CIP, developed in close synergy with the Italian Sports Medical Federation, national sports federations, associated sports disciplines and sports promotion agencies, as well as validated by the Scientific Technical Committee established at the Department of Civil Protection. The above document expressly provided for the provision, in the case of sports bodies recognised by the CONI or the CIP, to issue specific detailed protocols, which take into account both the indications of the General Guidelines and the organizational technical specificities of the individual disciplines. With the subsequent decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 17 May 2020, training sessions of professional and non-professional athletes of team sports were also permitted. This was a first step towards the recovery of all championships. By a similar procedure to individual sports, the Sports Department promptly issued the general guidelines on 18 May 2020. Before the Government took decisions on the resumption of the competitions, it should be remembered that some important federations have decreed the definitive early conclusion of the 2019-2020 season. Consider, among others, volleyball, basketball and rugby. The resumption of the championships or their conclusion depended on the autonomy of the individual federations, in support of which Article 218, introducing measures concerning exceptional procedural provisions for the measures relating to the cancellation, continuation and conclusion of competitions and professional and amateuristic championships, as a useful legal instrument to support the adoption of the choices deemed most appropriate by the individual federations, on the basis of the continuation or not of the respective championships. As far as football is concerned, the FIGC Council has decided to resume and complete the professional championships of the Serie A, B and C, on the other hand, the final stop of all amateur leagues starting from Serie D. Following the meeting held in videoconference mode by the delegated government authority in the field of sport with all the representatives of the world of football, on 26 May the resumption of the Serie A and B championships was established for 20 June, subject to the definition of the calendars by the League football, while the League Pro had foreshadowed the possibility to perform the play-offs and play-outs unless otherwise placed by the Federal Council. On 28 May 2020 the Scientific and Technical Committee approved the protocol drawn up by the FIGC and the Football League for the restart of competitions. It is considered that the complex and not without difficulty that the Government has carried out with all the other players involved in the CTS FIGC has allowed to complete the football championship of the 2019-2020 season recently concluded, deposing of every basis the hypotheses mentioned in premise by the honourable Member concerning an alleged will not to complete the football championships. We are now committed to ensuring that the resumption of the next season can take place safely and gradually reopened to the public if the general conditions of the epidemic allow. To answer the second question on the compensation of sports workers for the months of April and May, with Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020, converted with amendments by Law No 77 of 17 July 2020, the allowance of 600 euros was confirmed for each of the months of April and May (measures already provided for in the Italian decree for the month of March) in favour of sports workers (coachers, instructors, referees, administrative, management) employed with collaboration at the National Olympic Committee (CONI), with the Italian Paralympic Committee, national sports federations, associated sports disciplines and sports promotion bodies recognized by the National Olympic Committee and the Italian Paralympic Committee, amateur sports clubs and associations. This is an important recognition for a category that is often neglected and unprotected but deserves the right rights and due attention. By Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020, the allowance was also extended for June. Despite the measures taken with regard to containment measures have allowed the reopening of sports centres, the resumption of sporting activities has been very gradual and entire sectors, such as contact sports, have not been able to resume their activity until 25 June 2020, pursuant to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 17 May last. Overall, the measures to support sports workers registered an economic commitment of € 370 million for allowances alone, thanks to which it was possible to give support to about 150,000 sports workers. In addition, according to the May decree relaunch, employees enrolled in the professional sports pension fund with gross annual remuneration of no more than 50,000 euros can access the wage integration treatment provided for in Article 22 of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020, converted with amendments by Law No 27 of 24 April 2020, limited to a maximum period of nine weeks, measure proposed in the decree-law of August. Also with the decree so-called relaunch, additional support measures have been introduced, including the extension of the tax credit provided in the decree cure Italy for rent of the property for non-housing use. The standard recognises tax credit to a number of entities, including non-commercial entities, including third-sector entities, at 60% in relation to the rental, leasing or concession of non-housing properties intended for the carrying out of institutional activities. The benefit shall be proportionate to the amount paid during the tax period 2020 with reference to the months March, April and May. In the matter of rents, as is well known, Article 116 and the decree re-launched has provided the possibility to renegotiate the concessionary relationships between local authorities and ASD-SSD that have in management public property facilities in order to restore the economic-financial balance of the investment, as well as the possibility to renegotiate the terms of the lease between private subjects under the civil code, previewing the payment of an amount equal to 50% of the original amount agreed. Finally, the tax credit for the work necessary to adapt the buildings to the anti-Covid requirements is also mentioned, to the extent of 60%, for a maximum amount of EUR 80,000 for the sanitisation of the premises. As for the third question on tax concessions for ASD-SSD, the Italian decree cures, pursuant to Article 61, paragraph 2, which amended Article 8 of Decree-Law No 9 of 2 March 2020, extended the scope of the suspension until 30 April 2020 of the payments of withholding taxes on income from dependent work, on income assimilated to those employed by national sports federations, sports promotion agencies, sports associations and clubs, professionals and amateurs, as well as to the managers of stadiums, sports facilities, gyms, clubs and structures for dance, fitness and culturism, sports centers, swimming pools and centers (letter a); as well as to the persons who manage services for renting sports and recreational equipment or facilities and equipment for events and shows (letter p). With the so-called relaunch decree, suspended payments are made, without the application of sanctions and interest, in a single solution by 16 September 2020 or by instalments up to a maximum of four monthly instalments of equal amount, with the payment of the first instalment by 16 September 2020. Finally, Article 97 of Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020 provided for the payment of payments suspended to the extent of 50% to the next September 16th, while it further extended the payment of the remaining 50% without the application of sanctions and interest, by instalments, up to a maximum of twenty-four monthly instalments of the same amount, with the payment of the first instalment by 16 January 2021. Moreover, this measure introduced the measure of the tax credit for advertising investments in favour of professional leagues and sports clubs and amateur sports clubs and associations to the extent of 50% of the total amount of sponsorship for the total amount of EUR 90 million. With reference to question 4 on the uniformity of the legislation and access to credit for amateur sports associations (ASD) and amateur sports clubs (SSD), it is understood that sport is a competing subject between the State and the Regions, precisely to remedy an excessive fragmentation between the Regions, with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 17 May 2020, Article 10 introduces a specific reference to the execution and monitoring of the measures planned for the containment of the contagion through the direct involvement of the prefectures. The provisions of this decree also apply to the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, compatible with their respective Statutes and implementing rules. Given the above, maintaining the prudential approach of the Government, it was considered most appropriate, in order to facilitate the resumption of activities and the restart of all sectors, not only sports, to introduce a decision quid to the Regions regarding contact sports. The article 1, paragraph 1, letter g) of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 11 June 2020 has, in fact, previewed the possibility to share the contact sports from 25 June last in those Regions that, in agreement with the Ministry of Health and the delegated authority of Government in the matter of sport, had ascertained the compatibility of the aforementioned activities with the epidemiological trend. This measure was confirmed in the subsequent decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 7 August 2020 and further extended by the recent decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 7 September 2020, which extended the containment measures until 7 October next. With the liquidity decree (decree-Law No 23 of 8 April 2020) it has been previewed the widening of the operativity of the Guarantee Fund for the sports installation, referred to in article 90, paragraph 12, of the law n. 289 of 27 December 2002, administered by the institute for the sports credit, until the end of the current year. At the same time, a special liquidity sector has been set up which allows the eligibility of sports players (national sports federations and sports promotion bodies), which are currently excluded from access to the guarantees of the Central Guarantee Fund for SMEs. In addition, a special section of the Special Fund has been established for the granting of interest subsidies, as referred to in Article 5 (1) of Law No 1295 of 24 December 1957, until 31 December 2020, for the liquidity requirements of the aforementioned sports organisations that will be granted in accordance with the procedures established by the Management Committee of the special funds of the same institution. These instruments will ensure EUR 100 million of zero-rate financing and will also reduce the time and burden for those in immediate need of liquidity, in order to be able to share activities and enhance the important social role of sport. With Article 217 of the I throw again decree, in order to face the economic crisis of the subjects operating in the sports sector determined by the measures in the matter of containment and management of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, has been established, in the state of forecast of the Ministry of the economy and the finances, the "Fond for the relaunch of the national sports system", whose resources are transferred to the autonomous budget of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, in order to be assigned to the Department for the sport - already Office for the sport - for the adoption of measures of support and resumption of the sport movement. The funding of the fund is determined at a maximum of €40 million for 2020 and €50 million for 2021 and is fed by a share of 0.5 percent of the total betting collection related to sporting events of all kinds. In the course of the conversion of the aforementioned decree law, the fund has been implemented of ulterior 30 million euros. In addition, the Memorandum of Understanding has been signed "Together for sport" between the Department for Sport, the Sport and Health SpA, the CONI and the CIP which, each according to their respective availability, have put together resources for about 32 million euros so broken down: 10 million Department for Sport, 12 million Sport and Health, 5 million CONI, 5 million CIP. It is worth mentioning here also the publication, which took place on 20 July last, of the public financing ban For the year 2020 140 million euros have been allocated, which will be destined to modernization and recovery of sports facilities throughout Italy. The novelty is that they will be able to access the fund not only the local authorities that own the real estate, but also sports associations and clubs that have facilities in management or property. As described in response to the first question, the general guidelines for the resumption of individual trainings, at first, and the training of team sports and basic sport, subsequently prepared by the Sports Department (formerly the Sports Office) laid the basis for the elaboration of the specific protocols drawn up by the different federations that, once approved by the Technical and Scientific Committee, allowed the resumption and conclusion of the championships.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u32	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for his exhaustive reply, also taking into account the complexity of the issues dealt with. The theme of sport must be seen from a dual point of view. First of all, there is the educational and training component relating to the culture of leisure and to the involvement of generations and the public in sporting events, which is a value in itself and which, in my opinion, we absolutely must protect and guarantee. The central theme of the question is the incentive that is being given to the resumption of sporting events with the presence of the public. This is the challenge that we face in the coming weeks, taking into account the fact that the prudential line adopted by the Government must be absolutely appreciated both in the phase of maximum criticality of the epidemiological emergency, when it was inevitable to suspend the demonstrations, and when there was the courage to resume them, even in a European logic of resumption of the championships and outdoor sports activities more generally. That is the path we must pursue. Surely we, as a government, will have guidelines containing the principles on which to relaunch sporting events. We will have to check, also at European level, how the whole system of outdoor sports will be shared, starting with football and beyond. In fact, there is a whole set of sports not practiced outdoors that involve athletes and enthusiasts, as well as sports inside the palazzetti. We believe that there is this very valuable aspect to be supported and taken into account. We also believe that the initiatives taken mainly for the support of sports workers and sports associations and clubs are important and have allowed the most complicated and critical stages to be overcome. The question was put last May, so at the maximum emergency stage or in any case partial restart. Since then, a number of legislative measures have been adopted, which have been listed, which have allowed the categories of sports workers to breathe thanks to the benefits which, as has been explained, allowed in April, May and June to have a bonus and income support. I think it was important to introduce the rule that allows sports clubs to re-contract rental and concession contracts, because it is clear that the economic conditions that could exist, in terms of membership and perhaps, in some cases, even of public presence, before the emergency have completely changed. So, this support and this attention are right. I think there is therefore an important effort. What we must place ourselves as a challenge is to allow sporting events to return to the public, which is the aspect that crowns them. In fact, sports events without a public are love pages of everyday sports life. This aspect of sociality (which is also of substance, because filling the plants means allowing companies to sell tickets and have economic returns) must be the challenge of the future, realizing that we will not be able to think of full stages as they were before the emergency. We still have before our eyes the story of the game between Atalanta and Valencia, with more than 50,000 people in San Siro in the phase when there was an important criticality in terms of the diffusion of the coronavirus. With this hope, we give the Government strong support, hoping to review sporting events gradually resume at full speed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u33	Question 301518 on the payment of the bonus to self-employed persons receiving a civil invalidity pension follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u34	Mr President, I would like to explain the act on the cumulation of covid-19 benefits with direct pension treatment. Preliminarily, it should be pointed out that, as is well known, the original wording of the so-called Italian care decree did not provide for the cumulation of the Covid-19 benefits with direct pension treatment, including the ordinary invalidity allowance under Law No 222 of 1984. On this regulatory framework we intervened later with the decree relaunching. Therefore, it is now acclaimed that Article 31 of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020, as amended and supplemented by Article 75 of Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020, paragraph 1-a expressly provided that the Covid-19 benefits referred to in Articles 27, 28, 29, 30, 38 and 44 can be combined with the ordinary invalidity allowance. In this regard, I would also like to point out that close to the legislative news, INPS issued Circular 66 of 29 May 2020, in which operational instructions were provided. In particular, the social security institution has taken into account both the case of those who have been refused the application for the Covid-19 allowance solely because of the ownership of the ordinary invalidity allowance, and the hypothesis of workers who have not applied at all as holders of the same benefit, prescribing that in the first case the social security institution would have re-evaluated ex officio the claims originally submitted, accepting them, while in the second case it indicated the final deadline within which the applicants should have submitted the appropriate application. In addition, under the same Decree-Law No 34, under Article 86, the allowances established pursuant to Articles 84, 85, 78 and 98 and the emergency income established under Article 82 of the same Decree-Law have also been deemed to be combined with the ordinary invalidity allowance. Finally, I would like to point out that this approach is confirmed by Article 9 of Decree-Law No 104 of 2020, which states in paragraph 6 that the allowances in favour of the categories provided for in paragraphs 1, 2, 4 and 5 of the same Article 9, i.e. seasonal workers or fixed-term employees in the tourism sector and in the thermal baths, entertainment workers and other categories such as seasonal employees belonging to sectors other than those of tourism and thermal baths, intermittent workers, self-employed persons without VAT numbers holding occasional self-employed contracts for home sales (this says a lot about the fragmentation of our labour market), are also cumulative with the ordinary invalidity allowance provided for in Law No 222 of 12 June 1984. As regards the alleged low level of pension treatment in question and the request for the adjustment of the relevant values, I would point out that the same Decree-Law No 104, Article 15, intervened to implement the provisions of the Constitutional Court in judgment No 152 of 23 June 2020, which declared the constitutional illegitimacy of Article 38 of the 2002 Financial Law, in the part where, with regard to total civil invaliditys, it provides that the increased benefits provided for therein (up to guarantee an own income of EUR 516.46 per month, for thirteen months, subsequently re-evaluated up to EUR 651.51 for 2020) are granted to persons aged sixty years or more, rather than to persons over eighteen years of age. In particular, the Court affirmed that the so-called "million increase," amounting to EUR 516.46 and subsequently re-evaluated to EUR 651.51, which has long been recognised for various pension treatments under Article 38 of Law No 448 of 2011, must be insured to the total civilian invalids, as referred to in Article 12 of Law No 118 of 1971, who currently receive a allowance of EUR 286.81. Therefore, in Decree-Law No 104 of 2020 there is really a very important forecast, without waiting for the 60th year of age currently foreseen by law to be reached. The same Court has established that the possibility for the legislator to alter the rules of the existing welfare measures, provided that it is capable of guaranteeing the total civil invalids the effectiveness of the rights granted to them by the Constitution, remains firm. Consequently, the social bonus in question has been recognised with effect from 20 July 2020 (date of publication) also to persons over the age of 18 and up to the age of fifty-nine who are wholly disabled civilians or deaf-mute or blind absolute civilians who have a pension or who have an invalidity pension, as referred to in Article 2 of Law No 222 of 1984. I conclude by stressing the importance of the issue raised by Senator Binetti, so I can assure you that the Ministry I represent will continue to keep high attention on the issue so that the rights and conditions of these workers are always guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u37	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the dates make the difference: when we submitted this question, as reported in the file, it was April 28, before all the positive measures listed by the Undersecretary Puglisi became operational. Through the question we have pointed out a real scandal raised by all the associations to which people with disabilities refer. I would also like my colleagues in the majority to take charge of this, precisely to the extent that, in the end, Mr Puglisi concluded his reply, for a positive action: we are talking about 286 euros in total disability, in the face of - if you don't want to - pensions or in any case the contributions that have been granted, in my opinion, in part too much and in part obviously insufficient, when we think, for example, of citizenship income. We have a total invalid with a pension of 286 euros, which in addition could not have access to 600 euros of a special allowance then raised to 800 euros, because it had 286 euros and total invalidity. So in total disability the condition of discomfort related to the pandemic became even more an additional element of mortification, to the point of reducing the quality of life to truly unbearable levels. It must be said that at that time all the associations were pressing, including, for example, a very particular association. Sometimes, in fact, when we talk about the total invalids, we think easily of the total blind, that is, the sensory and physical disability perhaps from birth, with all the gravity that this presupposes, however there is also the total disability that is taken over in life, for example in some of the cancer patients. The Italian Federation of Volunteer Associations in Oncology (FAVO) is one of the largest associations that collects oncology volunteering and has been interested in all these people who have lost their jobs, who enjoyed a disability allowance of 286 euros, but could not have this additional allowance. That is, it was a social injustice linked not to a desire to harm, but to having not clearly studied the problem upstream and not to have highlighted the injustice that was being created. I note that, the pressing of the categories at the highest level not only of disability, but also of penetration into public opinion, and therefore the communication and scandal narrated, told, raised, have contributed in some way to reduce this injustice. I hope with all my heart that it will take note of this in order to really review the whole package of measures by which disabled people are taken care of. I recall the importance that the Undersecretary rightly pointed out regarding age groups (up to eighteen years old, from eighteen to fifty-nine): all this does not give us the measure of what it means today for a young person suffering from a rare serious disease, returning to the primitive question; I think, for example, to patients suffering from a muscular dystrophy of the faceoscapomeral type that prevents them from working and moving, and who perceive 286 euros of disability. What does this relationship to the famous law that speaks of an independent life and a better quality of life mean? Moreover, we have measures of a purely welfare nature that do not correspond to the need or reality that is being put in place. I am more satisfied than with the response given to the concrete facts that have been accumulated during this period. They are concrete facts - let me say this - that the strength and power of the opposition have drawn their energies from the alliance with the associations, or we could say with a civil society that felt penalized in this sense; on this point we must acknowledge that a minimum of concrete listening has been achieved. Now, however, let us move forward and look at further situations in which social justice really requires to contemplate that, from a certain point of view, fortunately we live much longer but, precisely for this reason, disability also has a very strong incremental value. This requires an adjustment of measures to support the people involved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u38	Following is the question 3-01014 on the length of leave for university professors holding positions at the CNR. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u39	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members for allowing me to clarify with their question a particularly complex question of interpretation, on which I apologise right now if the language used cannot exclude technicalities of a legal nature. The question concerned is, in fact, about the system of expectations of teachers and researchers in the case of carrying out activities in public and private subjects and bodies, or even in the direction of bodies, institutes and laboratories. In particular, a specific question is asked in relation to the rules applicable to the conduct of activities in public and private entities and bodies, including the management of bodies, institutes and laboratories. The question, in summary, concerns the alleged infringement of Article 7 of Law No 240 of 2010, in so far as it lays down a maximum period of waiting. First, it should be clarified immediately that the rule, when setting a time limit of five years, must be considered applicable only to the hypothesis of optional expectation, that is to say to those hypotheses for which the law does not provide for any incompatibility between the activity of the teacher or the researcher and the conduct of other activities. On the other hand, the mandatory expectation provided by the law for activities incompatible with those of university teachers and researchers cannot but be subject to time limits, since, as the Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated, it constitutes a legal institution aimed at ensuring, in compliance with the principles set out in Articles 3 and 51 of the Constitution, the participation of citizens in the performance of public positions, in condition of equality, recognising to them the availability of the time necessary for the performance of the tasks proper to the offices and public offices and, at the same time, the preservation of the workplace. With regard to the substance of the question, it should first of all be pointed out that, in the case of the CNR, a special legal regime, as provided for in Article 15 of Legislative Decree No 127 of 2003, is applied to university teachers and researchers who intend to take over the presidency or the management of bodies, institutes, departments or research laboratories instead of Article 7 thereof. The scheme provides that the professor or university researcher, who is in charge of the CNR presidency, may be placed on compulsory leave, pursuant to Article 13 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 382 of 1980. It follows that for such subjects, because of the mandatory nature of the expectation, it is not reasonable that the time limit provided for in Article 7 of the Gelmini law applies, which, as mentioned above, concerns only the hypothesis of optional expectation. On the other hand, as regards the duties of Director-General, Director of Department or Director of Institute, the special rule referred to above refers to the rules laid down in Article 12 of the Decree of the President of the Republic No 382 of 1980, which lays down no time limit. It follows, therefore, that, by virtue of the special nature of such legislation, it must be regarded as prevailing in relation to the general rules laid down in Article 7 of Law No 240 of 2010. For this reason, the five-year limit laid down by the standard in question may not be considered applicable to the assumptions evoked by the interrogators. In addition, with regard to the concern expressed by the interrogators about the alleged burden on public finances, it is noted that the rules governing the compulsory and optional leave scheme provide that such charges, including social security and welfare treatment, are borne by the public bodies which confer the positions of presidency or management on university teachers and researchers placed on leave, this circumstance, which guarantees the financial neutrality of that institution. Although the reasons set out above must be considered reasonable and compatible with the overall framework of the provisions relating to the legal status of university professors, as well as responding to the general public interest in identifying the best competences for the taking up of positions of this prestige, the Ministry intends to carry out further legal investigations in relation to the best contemporaneousness of the principles that have been taken into account so far. I would like to reassure the honourable Members that they will not fail to provide information on the results of this in-depth study, from which they will be able to give rise, where they consider it necessary, to future regulatory action.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u42	CORRADO (M5S). Mr Secretary, I can only say that I am satisfied that I have received an answer to the question, at my first signature, which was tabled 14 months ago. It was worth waiting - and I say this also on behalf of the other twenty fellow subscribers - because the uncertainty that reigns over the subject of this act of inspection union and other aspects of the world of university teaching cannot, in my opinion, continue to pass under silence. I believe that Minister Manfredi, both because he is not overwhelmed by the load on his predecessors, and because as a former rector he also knows perfectly well the anomalies of the system, is the right person to remedy, if he wants to. I always say that he wants it because, apart from the promise of in-depth study, which I obviously greatly appreciate, to refer - as has been done - to the decree of the President of the Republic of 11 July 1980, n. 382, when we talk about the expectation of university professors called to direct laboratories of research institutions, as if that were a lex specialis relating to the National Research Council, while it is a general norm of university law, it means to ignore that this is - I mean general rule - the law n. 240 of 2010 (the Gelmini law). However, for the sole application of the principle of hierarchy of legal sources, the law obviously prevails over the decree of the President of the Republic and, if the DPR No 382 of 1980, Article 12, limited itself to allowing leave with cheques, Article 7 of Law No 240 of 2010 (drafted "Rules on the mobility of professors and researchers") instead places, as you mentioned, a maximum limit of five years also consecutive, without providing for derogations, to the expectation on demand - therefore optional, as you said - of university professors for the carrying out of activities with subjects and public or private bodies (and such is the CNR, like other public research bodies). The regulatory dictate is quite clear, yet the incorrect application of Article 7 is constant, so much so that in order to remain at the CNR - and that was the reason why I submitted the question - since July 2019, the board of directors has repeatedly assigned duties as director of the institute or department to university teachers who had already exceeded the four years of expectation at that date. Let me give some examples: Professor Antonio Occhiuzzi, Professor Claudio Conti, Professor Salvatore Capasso, Professor Roberta Ramponi or Professor Giuseppe Gigli. This is an objectively difficult situation, given the uncertainty surrounding the application of the rule. However, let me also mention other issues concerning the mobility and extra-university activities of teachers, of which too often one is silent even though one has them in front of me. Let me give you two examples, Mr President. It is these days the conviction in first instance for the erarial damage of the former council member of the regional junta of Campania, engineer Ennio Cascetta, for various consultations carried out while he was full-time professor at the University of Frederick II. The extremis withdrawal last week of amendment 19.15 to the Decree-Law simplifications, presented by the colleagues of the League, has therefore prevented those behaviors from suddenly becoming lawful and has prevented a total liberalization that would have made many university teachers completely unknown to students who attend their courses, sublimating the practice of the sole custody of teaching to assistants, compared to at least two hundred and fifty hours that every ordinary teacher must guarantee at his University. In this regard - I move to a second example, changing slightly within - Professor Massimo Sanna, ordinary of classical archaeology at the Federico II University took that teaching in December 2015, shortly before leaving the archaeological superintendence of Pompeii, Herculaneum and Stabia to assume from 4 January 2016 the mandate of first-class director of the Park and museum of Pompeii, also conferred to him thanks to a paragraph 6, therefore to the detriment of the internal leadership of the Mibact; a full-time assignment with a contract of private law that involves exclusivity. Well, the professor has maintained his teaching both in the first and in the second three years of the museum management of Pompei, except that of the second he has carried out about a year, having just been appointed director general of the museums of the same Dicastery, another full-time and out-of-office assignment, in addition to having at the moment the interim of Pompei (I can not say well in what title). Professor Frederick II is also a professor at the university for 2020-2021. So, for the sake of clarity, Mr. Undersecretary, I would like to ask you to give an example of Professor Sanna's case. Is yours a leave of absence, or optional, or a free supplement or something else? On the portal of the University of Frederick II I could not find any information directly about it. I ask it in the interest of the students, first of all, but also of the other full-time teachers of the Neapolitan University and of the many universities where it occurs... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] In fact, I believe that we need to clarify situations which, repeating themselves, alter the perception of normality, also making it quite clear that university baronates are far from missing and too often can rely on the succinct condescendence of ministerial summits.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u43	Following is the question 3-01567 on support measures for out-of-office university students for the payment of housing. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u44	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator for her question, which allows the Government to provide clarification on the initiatives taken to protect outside university students, who have undoubtedly suffered more than their other colleagues the limitations imposed on the entire population in the context of the Covid-19 emergency. It should be said that this issue was immediately a priority for the Government, as it was immediately clear that specific and timely measures were needed to meet the needs of out-of-office university students and, more generally, their families. Precisely in this perspective, the Government has decided to intervene in an important way in the so-called decree-law relaunch. In conversion to this decree, in fact, thanks also to the meritorious solicitation of the parliamentary forces, the Government has increased the fund for the support to the leases of an additional 20 million euros, to be devoted exclusively to the rentals of housing of the students out of office. This measure is indeed part of the wider context of aid adopted in the course of the year by the Ministry of University and Research, which immediately gave a central role to the protection of the right to study, in the full awareness that the emergency we are experiencing is unfortunately able to originate or increase inequalities that of course cannot be tolerated. From this point of view, then, I would like to remind you that, within the framework of the funds provided for the emergency Covid-19, an additional EUR 20 million was allocated to students who need an economic contribution for the purchase of digital devices and teaching services; EUR 165 million are intended for the total and partial exemption from university fees, extending in this way the so-called no tax area; for the same purposes, in addition, an additional EUR 8 million was reserved to students by the state institutions of high artistic, musical and choretical training. Also in order to promote the right to university study, finally, the State supplementary fund for the grant of scholarships to students able and deserving, even if without means, has been increased by 40 million euros. To these important measures of economic order, the Government has added, in agreement with the Regions, to which, I must remind you, primarily the matter of the right to study, a specific provision within the framework of the so-called August decree, which goes strongly in the direction of the protection of students out of office. I refer to Article 33, paragraph 2, which introduced a derogation for the benefit of out-of-office university students who, due to the situation resulting from the epidemiological crisis, could be affected by the status of student away from home and, consequently, the use of the relevant scholarships. This provision provides, in fact, both for the academic year in the course of conclusion and for what is about to begin, that the recognition of the condition of out-of-office can also be satisfied by those who take accommodation in the place of the place of the course for a period of less than ten months, provided that to date it is indispensable, pursuant to Article 4 of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 9 April 2001, to obtain the scholarship and that, precisely because of the possibility that it has failed due to the intervening restrictions on freedom of movement, it can also be satisfied by those who have stayed out-of-home for only four months. This regulatory forecast was therefore motivated by the need to avoid that the serious emergency situation experienced by the country could in some way affect a form of aid to students and families, in many cases considered indispensable instead. Finally, I would like to reassure the honourable Member that the Government intends to continue taking further steps to support out-of-office students in order to overcome this complex situation and to continue to give full effect to the constitutionally enshrined right to study.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u45	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u47	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the subject of out-of-office university students is particularly sensitive and always takes on new nuances. I would like to give a typical example: it is these days the selective test for access to the medical faculty, so the student will be able to attend the degree course depending on his position in the ranking. He will then find himself a student out of office, while living in a city where there is a medical faculty, if in that medical faculty there is no place available and therefore he will have to opt for a different home. Being out of office is therefore often dictated not only by a conscious choice by the student, but also by the needs related to the new legislation, which requires mobility that goes beyond the interests or the original choice of the student, where possible. Moreover, as is certainly well known, there are cities in Italy with a university vocation. I think of cities like those where the university center becomes the reference point of city life; cities where the number of people living there changes radically during the periods in which there are lessons, exams, the frequency of students compared to when they are not there. This means that the subject of the student out of office invests very much a large network of housing owners, who live and subordinate the quality of their lives to the possibility that the rented property becomes for them a source of maintenance. This is undoubtedly a virtuous aspect, but we also know that many times it is managed under a monopoly regime, so students find themselves paying proportionate amounts not only to have accommodation, but sometimes also to have a room, or sometimes just a bed. The whole subject of the student's out-of-office accommodation would deserve serious reflection and a sort of Committee of Inquiry to monitor how the lives of the students take place. But there is also the other important aspect, which is the presence of students in so-called colleges of merit, which is linked to a lease covering the entire academic year. This is also a problem: many of these colleges have been in serious difficulty in the last period, because the difficulty of the student's family in coping with costs has then resulted in a difficulty of both the tenant families and the colleges and residences in which these children were living. It is a composite theme that concerns student accommodation. Justly, as the Undersecretary De Cristofaro said before about investments in digital instruments, it is essential that all these accommodations, whether they are private homes, colleges or transitional accommodations, have the right capacity to respond in terms of digitalization and can allow students to use at three hundred and sixty degrees all the necessary tools to communicate directly with their university headquarters, to be able to take lessons at a distance - we have seen it and to be able to take the examinations at a distance, as has happened many times. We even saw students graduating from college discussing their thesis at a distance. This requires a very strong reflection on what the out-of-office means today and what are the guarantees to which students, their families and then that network of services that is structured around them and that is formed by a part of tenant families, on the other hand of merit colleges or even pensioners where students can gather. Ensuring the best possible conditions today for the university student to be focused on achieving the level of excellence in the study means guaranteeing not only the opportunity to bring home significant and positive results in terms of voting and therefore also access to potential scholarships, but also to develop those areas that make them fit to undertake a research activity or participate in a PhD. If the student is not focused on the quality of the work he is doing and does not have a strong awareness of that work, it is a resource that we lose for the whole country. Finally, we know that the university is not only a place of learning, but also a place of socialization, relationships and relationships. So, even from this point of view, facilitating these structures is really important. I thank and really hope that all this set of measures that appear multiple, but also partly fragmented (even though there is a doubt that the student knows all the palette of the opportunities presented to him), have such an organicity that it is easy to know what they can access and how, in the shortest possible time and in the most effective way possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u48	The following are questions 3-01770 and 3-01810 on the need to renew the embargo on the sale of arms to Iran. The representative of the Government may answer these questions together.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u49	Mr President, Italy is following very closely the UN embargo on conventional weapons to Iran under Resolution 2231 of 2015 and due to expire in October. In particular, Farnesina does so thanks to its diplomatic representations abroad and coordination with the main international partners. The United Nations Security Council on 15 August rejected the motion for a resolution tabled by the United States for the renewal of the embargo. The United States and the Dominican Republic voted in favour, while Russia and China voted against and the other members abstained. Although Italy is not a member of the Security Council, it shares American concerns about the expiry of the embargo. In line with the European position, we also consider it important to prevent a new escalation of tension and the end of the Iranian Nuclear Agreement. Within the European Union, on the basis of Council Decision 413 of 2010, certain prohibitions on the export of certain dual-use software and goods technologies, the embargo on weapons and ballistic missiles and, finally, the individual sanctions for designated natural and legal persons, which effectively preclude any commercial activity, remain in force until 18 October 2023: all measures are updated and in line with the determinations of the UN Security Council. Following the non-approval of the motion for a resolution on the arms embargo last month, the United States initiated the procedure for the use of the mechanism for the restoration of the existing Onusian sanctions under the Iranian Nuclear Understanding, as provided for in Resolution 2231, establishing the Understanding itself. In fact, the resolution provides that the mechanism may be activated after a State party to the Nuclear Agreement has notified a significant non-fulfilment of the same Agreement by Iran. This should result in the automatic reactivation of all sanctions, unless a Security Council resolution decrees a new suspension of restrictive measures. Washington notified the Security Council Presidency on 21 August of Iran's significant non-fulfilment of the Nuclear Understanding. However, in the UN Security Council there is almost unanimous opinion on the American lack of legitimacy to proceed, in the light of Washington's withdrawal of the Iranian Nuclear Agreement in 2018. The monthly Presidency of the Security Council plays an important role in these matters. Its task is to decide whether or not to include requests for activation of the mechanism in the work of the body. The Indonesian Presidency in August considered the American request inadmissible and the current Niger Presidency has not, however, given its opinion at the moment. The Italian position in this regard is in line with that expressed by the European Union, both directly by the High Representative Borrell and by the European External Action Service, as the Presidency of the Joint Commission of the Iranian Nuclear Agreement. As announced in the EU Declaration of 1 September, the United States can no longer invoke the mechanism for the restoration of sanctions, having withdrawn from the Agreement. At this stage, we continue to argue that priority should be given to ensuring the full implementation of the Iranian Nuclear Agreement: a pillar of the global non-proliferation architecture that can contribute to regional stability. We have therefore expressed concerns about Iran's progressive decommitment from the Nuclear Understanding and, on the other hand, welcomed the resumption of a positive dialogue between Tehran and the International Atomic Energy Agency on the implementation of the Safeguards Protocol. The mission to Iran of the Director-General Grossi, last August, went in this direction. We consider it essential to persevere in the search for a constructive dialogue with Tehran, a relevant regional actor, including on sensitive issues such as the long-term future of nuclear power, missile proliferation and the transfer of ballistic technology to non-state actors.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u52	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Merlo for his reply, but I am missing a few passages. The Italian Government agrees with the High Representative Borrell in saying that the United States is not entitled to demand the reinstatement of sanctions, as they came out of the Agreement and did so not without reasons, but motivating it by the fact that, on the Iranian side, the Agreement was not respected. The question to be asked would therefore be what Europe intends to do, given the part of that agreement. If the United States is not legitimate, Europe would be legitimate, as are the individual members of the European Union. It is true that other sanctions remain in place, but it is also true that violations of the Nuclear Agreement, JCPOA, have been denounced not by the United States but by the United Nations Nuclear Agency itself. Therefore, we need a clearer position on this issue, in the light of Iranian policy. There are several questions, much older than the 3-01770 of 9 July, to which the Government is responding today. Since last November, questions concerning the Italian position vis-à-vis Iran generally lie unanswered, despite the rules of the Senate providing that the answers should be given within twenty days. Iran is considered, by international bodies including the United States Secretariat of State, an exporter of terrorism. There is talk of EUR 700 million a year that is being used to finance international terrorism. The formation of Qassem Soleimani was known for operations abroad. Now, military operations abroad are of two kinds: to export violence and terrorism or, as our country does, to carry out peace missions. We do not see Iran carrying out peace missions in parts of the world and, therefore, it was a formation that was going in that direction. With regard to the danger of a nuclear Iran, which has been pursued, boasted and conducted in many ways, for years, by the Iranian authorities, it would be necessary, on the Italian side (and European, of course) to have a clearer attitude and not so extremely prudent and, in some way, equidistant. You, Mr Undersecretary, in reporting on the vote to the Security Council, said that the United States and a couple of other countries voted in favour of the renewal of the embargo and stressed that Italy could not vote because, at that time, it was not part of the Security Council. At first, it seemed to me that if he were a member, he would vote in favour. I if they cannot be put into effect, but, because now Italy is entitled and legitimated to denounce and carry out that act, which they have tried to do the United States, but which has been declared illegitimate, then do so. Italy denounces the violation of the embargo and calls for the restoration of sanctions concerning the arms embargo, in the light of Iran's violations of the Nuclear Agreement. The equidistance isn't good. The equivalence between those who export arms and terrorism and those who try to combat it does not belong to Italy. The equidistance between our main ally, the United States, and Iran, which for years has been announcing that it wants to destroy a sovereign state like Israel - which is in the United Nations and has been recognized by the United Nations since before Italy - is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u53	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u55	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the Undersecretary for his reply and for the opportunity it gives this House to stress once again how much our country can and must play a very active role in relation to the enormous concerns that concern Iran: both from the point of view of the lives of its citizens, of the many, too many, people who are in prison for no reason, who are killed, sentenced to death in a brutal way, and eliminated in that country; and from the point of view of the destabilising function that it plays throughout that area. This is exactly the opposite of our traditional foreign policy approach, among other things always shared, even with majority changes, by the Italian Government. For our position in the Mediterranean, for our cultural instruments, for the ways in which we have always acted in international missions, we are, on the Middle East, one of the countries that performs a stabilisation function. That is why I am satisfied, because I think it is clear in the answer to the position of the Italian Government, which is in the direction of strengthening the embargo, but I agree with what Senator Malan said earlier about two aspects. The first is that we can and must be proactive in relation to the United Nations, in relation to the Member States of the Security Council, but also members of the European Union. Therefore, more and more must be able to represent the European Union as a whole than those seats and be bearers of an embargo which - I say this very clearly - is not the best solution in the world. I do not like this instrument and I believe that we should go more and more towards individual sanctions on the model of the Magnitsky Act, recently approved by the German Government, and there are legislative proposals also in the Italian Parliament. I believe that we should take these solutions into our own hands, because we must move forward with respect to the instruments of condemnation of regimes which affect less and less people and more and more the perpetrators of regimes, because the peoples of those countries are at risk of being victims twice. In the case of an embargo on the sale of arms, however, it is clear that there is no possibility and no assessment that weapons can be sold to a country that threatens its neighbouring countries and that it also intervenes in a destabilising way in the fight against terrorism, becoming a tool instead of promoting international terrorism. We are all deeply concerned about the current pandemic, but we must not forget the other dangers that exist on our planet. I would therefore like to thank the Undersecretary and the Government. Let us commit ourselves and give our country that role which belongs to it in history: active promotion of peace, not peaceful, not pacifist, but peacemaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u56	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. I suspend the session, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 11.38 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u57	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, which will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Leone has the right to explain the question 3-01896 on discriminatory incidents against an official pupil of the Air Force, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u58	Mr President, Minister, Giulia Schiff, a young winner of the 124th course of official pilots to complement the Air Force, in 2018 she took up service at the Aeronautics Academy in Pozzuoli, passed the passing exam, solo flight, and thus obtained the rank of pilot sergeant. On the date of her examination she was subjected to the baptism of the flight, an apparently playful moment, during which she was struck with strong beatings; shaken and humiliated as a woman and military, she sent the photos of the injuries to her father, former officer of the Air Force; the father warned of the incident a friend, former colleague of course, high officer. Later Giulia receives a drastic lowering of the behavioral evaluation, reaching sixty-one days of delivery. It is then proposed for expulsion from the Academy's attitude committee. Schiff then filed a complaint with the military attorney in October 2018. Following the online publication of the movie of the ritual, the story assumes media relevance. For this reason, the Defence Administration is setting up a summary investigation commission, whose findings have not recognised responsibility for the command boards. The TAR of Lazio, in March 2019, rejected the request for reinstatement, but the Council of State, by successive order, reinstated Schiff as a sergeant air force within the Academy for the continuation of the training course. Meanwhile, the prosecutors of Rome and Latina concluded the investigations carried out by eight students of the 124th course for the facts related to the rite. However, they continue to serve at the Air Force, without the Air Force ever taking any action against them. For the summation of discriminatory behaviors and disciplinary punishments abnormous both in the number, and in the degree, the Schiff complains - for mobbing this time - that ends however due to non-susistence of the facts. Although reinstated, the Military Air Force School Command denied Schiff the possibility of piloting and joining his peers. The said prohibition of flight was then the subject of yet another recourse to the TAR of Lazio, which, with a protective order, reaffirmed the legitimacy of the operation. For the facts of mobbing another complaint was lodged to the military attorney of Rome on May 29, with request for forwarding to the ordinary and military attorney of Naples, as far as it is competent. Therefore, it is asked to know whether the Minister in address is aware of the above; whether, in view of the events described, there can be no discriminatory and denigratory conduct against Giulia Schiff and, in case, if he does not consider it necessary to intervene within the limits of the powers, in order to take appropriate measures to remedy the consequences produced by these vicissitudes; what competence initiatives he intends to take so that the obstructive attitude towards the Schiff by the military Air Force can finally cease, thus ensuring a reintegration not only formal, but also and above all substantial, in accordance with the provisions of the Council of State on 21 June 2019. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in taking account of the fact that, on the slopes of the judicial and administrative proceedings in place, a complete definition of what has happened can only occur when the final outcome is known, I would first of all like to make it clear that any behaviour detrimental to personal dignity cannot be tolerated. Turning to the substance, I believe it is useful to keep separate the various aspects mentioned in the inspection union act. I am referring to that concerning the treatment reserved to the student official pilot; to that inherent to the administrative judgment promoted by her, as a result of her discharge from the course for non-military attitude, which - I remember - was arranged on 16 November 2018; and finally to that related to the alleged discriminatory conduct complained by the pupil. With regard to the first aspect, the investigation of the jurisdiction of the judicial authority in question - as correctly pointed out by the interrogators - by the military administration itself on 1 October 2018, whose conclusions cannot but be taken into account in the subsequent disciplinary assessment of the facts, is still ongoing. With regard to the appeal lodged by the student on 23 February 2019, following his discharge from the course, the proceedings at the TAR del Lazio are also pending, with the hearing for the treatment of merit set for the next 23 October. As regards the alleged discriminatory conduct in particular, the alleged obstructive attitude of the Armed Forces and finally the possibility of substantial reintegration of the pupil, I represent that the Air Force has considered to have to proceed by fulfilling the determinations of the administrative judge. As is well known, in fact, he provided the student's precautionary reinstatement along with the 125th course for official pupils complement pilots (AUPC) in compliance with the decree of the Council of State n. 03208 of 2019, ensuring the maintenance of the level of preparation acquired during the course previously attended (i.e. 124°). This is in view of the fact that, as provided by the Council of State in the above-mentioned order - which I quote - the continuation and completion, subject to reservation, of the training activity in the following course (the 125°) are suitable to ensure the pupil's interest in not dispersing the maturity of professional experience and do not determine comparatively profiles of actual prejudice to the public interest. Therefore, the provisions adopted by the armed force, in the state, have been judged to be appropriate by the order of the TAR of Lazio n. 04377 of 18 June 2020, in the more than the judgment on the appeal still pending, on the substance, and that - as said - will be discussed on 23 October 2020 and of whose determinations will be taken due account. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter that I follow with due attention, given that there will be no understanding for any behaviour that, even in the light of the statements still awaited, would prove to be different from the indispensable principles of ethical and professional correctness and respect for individual dignity.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u60	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Leone for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u61	Minister, thank you for your feedback. I would like to point out that Giulia's case is an emblematic one, because many other girls have contacted me, but they have not had the courage to denounce it. I am concerned with prevention within the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and, therefore, this issue is very dear to me, together with the protection in general, in order to encourage women to report. The goliardic rite following the passage of examination is not a playful or puffy moment, but it has become a practice anything but festive: it is inveterated, but within an important institution such as that of the State cannot be further tolerated, because it is damaging and humiliating, on the one hand, for the person - as you have also said - but, on the other hand, also towards the State, who is debased in its role, and we cannot Let's have it. I therefore hope - and I am fully convinced that this will be the case - that the framework leaders, you, Minister, the Command and the Military Academy, each with its own role, will take steps to ensure that these practices are abandoned and above all that veil of omerta that surrounds the entire military system and makes ordinary and normal what is not. In so doing, the Army will also contribute substantially to the cultural change that is taking place in civil society and that moves towards a new way of considering gender respect, but above all the dignity of the person. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u62	Senator Casini has the option of explaining question 3-01909 on combating the use of cocaine in the youth population for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u63	Minister, a recent Bolognese judicial investigation conducted with great professionalism - but in course of course - has revealed a worrying picture of the spread of drugs, cocaine in particular, linked to the trafficking and exploitation of minors. This is only the last episode of a chain of similar facts that are multiplying in our country while - at least to me - the attention of politics, legislators, government authorities regarding the spread of the drug phenomenon appears to be worrisomely diminished. It seems a bit like there is an addiction to public opinion, a sort of silent tolerance that drugs such as amphetamines, opiates, cannabis and, above all, cocaine and their derivatives, as well as new synthetic drugs, are now a tolerated element not only among the groups of social hardship, but also and above all among the wealthiest classes of our country. Smuggling, child exploitation, illegal trafficking, of course, with national and international connections with organised crime, become pieces of the same mosaic, while virtually no more effective awareness and prevention campaigns exist in schools and society. For me there is also a problem of raising penalties that can make more effective the contrast of these phenomena by the Forces of Order. In fact, we are often told that those involved are immediately released and the consequences are virtually null. I put this question to the Minister of the Interior because for me it is the real terminal of the whole Government, it is in a certain sense the traffic light of the situation of the country: no one more than the Minister of the Interior has the pulse of the situation and the social phenomena in place and I ask for his opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member asks us to know what initiatives the Government intends to take in order to raise society's awareness of the issue of the spread of drugs among young people and whether it considers it appropriate to take regulatory action to combat this phenomenon. It must be pointed out first that the attention of the Ministry of the Interior on the subject has always been high, in full awareness that the consumption of these substances can have serious implications for health and social life especially of young consumers. I therefore believe that an effective strategy to combat the phenomenon must necessarily include prevention policies focused on children's information activities in order to spread a higher awareness of the dangers to health and at the same time promote more effective synergy between police forces, the world of school and the family. In this direction, initiatives of the State Police have long been active to raise awareness of the school world through communication and information campaigns aimed at increasing young people's awareness of the risks arising from the use of drugs. In the same direction is also engaged the Department for drug policies of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers with different projects involving social media and also entrust to the realization of a web portal the communication on the risks related to the use of drugs in school age. With regard to the fight against drug offences, especially in the city of Bologna, I inform you that both in 2019 and in the current year the action taken by the police forces has led to the seizure of large quantities of narcotics and psychotropic substances and to the reporting to the judicial authority of several hundred people with an increase compared to the equivalent data of 2018. With regard to the possible introduction of new rules on the subject, which naturally require broad consultation with all relevant administrations, initiatives are being considered to strengthen prevention and enforcement, including with regard to cases of so-called minor importance, as well as to take effective action against the increasing phenomenon of drug supply on the Internet networks, mutualizing the mechanism of the darkening of sites that disseminate child pornography. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Casini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u65	Mr President, I am pleased with the Minister's reply because, first of all, he reassured - I believe - the Senate and public opinion that we are not holding hands. I said that the Ministry of the Interior is in a certain sense the traffic light: in this case I believe that we have to go between yellow and red; the green is over, that is, zero tolerance on this phenomenon. A zero tolerance is fundamental and the relationship between police forces, school and families, as well as online contrast action on the Internet are points of a strategy for me that is inescapable for our Executive. I have to say that the data that the Minister has reported, although in the brevity of this communication - of course briefly, and it could only be so - that the Minister has stated that large quantities have been identified in 2019 compared to what happened the previous year is already a sign that this phenomenon is not stalling, but is running. Drug dealing as well as the connection with the exploitation of minors - in my opinion - both at the time of dealing and at the time of consumption are rushing. I believe that from this point of view the government really needs to raise the level of counter-action with a zero tolerance scheme. In conclusion, I am well aware that the subject also concerns the Minister of Justice, for which I will also put it to Minister Bonafede. However, I would like to point out that raising the minimum of penalties is essential in order to prevent people being arrested in the morning and released in the evening. This is absolutely unacceptable to public opinion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u66	Senator Ruotolo has the right to explain the question 3-201907 on the recent episodes of organised crime in Avellino, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u67	Minister, I was struck by your interview with La Stampa yesterday in which you raised the alarm about the mob in the post-Covid: some entrepreneurs rely on the mob to take out the competition. Today I address you because there are disturbing signs from the territories about a resumption of the classic criminal activities. Today I pay attention to the Province of Avellino. In San Martino Valle Caudina the other day there was a homicide whose modes are the classic ones of a crime of camorra: the killers killed with five shots of gun Orazio De Paola, fifty-eight years old, considered by the investigator the main referent of the camorristic clan Pagnozzi, one of the powerful criminal comrades who would control all illicit affairs in the area with strong interests also in lower Lazio, Tuscany and Rome. In record time the investigators proceeded to arrest on the charge of voluntary murder of the alleged killer. But what I would like to stress here is that in recent times - as reported by the press - there has been a dangerous escalation with ambush and attacks in Avellino: last August 20 in front of the park Palatucci was wounded by gunshots the convicted Francesco Liotti, thirty-four years old, and after forty-eight hours it was touched to the house, targeted with a "street," typical armed chamorrist raid; without forgetting the attacks of Rione Mazzini and Valle, events that alarm public opinion and put at risk the safety of citizens. You know well, Minister, that in my region, Campania, there have been hundreds of innocent victims of Camorra: they shoot on the street and on the street often hit the innocent. To intervene today have pushed me also associations like Libera, engaged in the legality, worried about this escalation. That is why, Minister, we are all concerned. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u68	Mr President, with reference to the murder that took place on 8 September in San Martino Valle Caudina, in the province of Avellino, I first inform you that the investigations of the Anti-Mafia District Directorate of Naples, which is still underway, have already made it possible to acquire elements of guilt against a convicted person arrested yesterday. Following this event, surveillance and observation measures were immediately intensified, through targeted territorial prevention and control services, including through checkpoints. With regard, moreover, to the injury of a multiple prejudiced always happened in the capital Irpino last 20 August, the investigations of the competent judicial authority are focusing on the investigation of the delittuous matrix of the episode. As for the phenomenon of camorristic infiltrations in Irpinia, well noted also in the most recent criminal analyses, I assure that the attention to that territory is maximum and that the commitment of the police forces translates in an intense activity of prevention and contrast, especially in the delicate phase that the country is going through. Coming to the specific question put by the honourable Member, I would point out that there has been no lack of evaluation of measures to strengthen the network of State Police in Irpinia, which can now count on a total of 455 units. In the near future, an additional rate of 14 units will be allocated to the police station and to the police departments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u69	I give the floor to Senator Rotolo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u70	Minister, thank you for your reply, which, I must tell you, was the one I wished for, so naturally I am satisfied. We all know that prevention is needed, but we also need the repression of crimes on the ground. To make clear the danger of this camorra I want to add only one element, which we note in the six-monthly report of the Anti-Mafia Investigative Directorate, which speaks precisely of a modern, silent and silent camorra, which has its relations with public administrations and infiltrations in local authorities. That's why we don't have to light a single reflector, but a lot of spotlights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u71	Senator Ciriani has the right to explain the question 3-201910 on the contrast to irregular immigration, with particular reference to the situation in Sicily and Friuli-Venezia Giulia, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u72	Mr President, I would like to start with the statement made by the Minister a few days ago in Cernobbio, where he said that work must be done in the country of origin in order to avoid departures. It is a statement that we share, Minister, but it has only one unmistakable meaning for us, namely to implement a naval blockade, with a finally serious and strict approach to the issue of immigration. This is in our opinion the only way to avoid departures, landings, deaths at sea, as well as to eliminate the criminal trade of men that we register unfortunately every day, reaffirming that in Italy you enter if you have a permit and if you have a job. I would like briefly to point out that there must also be clarity on the activities of certain so-called NGO humanitarian organisations, which claim to carry out their activities on foreign ships flying a foreign flag, and then to dump only on Italy the weight and the cost of their so-called rescue intervention for hundreds and thousands of desperate people. We are talking about organizations that explicitly, even arrogantly, claim to carry out this activity with political purposes, aimed at the contrast of the political forces of the sovereign right, which they even call fascist. The alternative to this policy, which you also mentioned, Minister, is the chaos we saw and recorded in Sicily in hotspots and which led to the reaction of President Musumeci. But there is another equally serious issue, that of the Balkan route, which for at least three years I myself, my party and the municipal councillors from Tarvisio to Trieste are desperately trying to put to the attention of the Government and also of the media. In fact, every night for several years they clandestinely cross that border dozens and dozens of people under the direction of powerful and efficient criminal organizations. These people do not know what happens and of course there are problems of public order and health that everyone can guess. I refer briefly to at least two problems: one is that of unaccompanied minors, who weigh 100 euros per day on small municipal administrations, who are not able to support these enormous economic burdens; the other is the situation that has been determined for example in Tricesimo, where the mayor of the Democratic Party has declared unacceptable and intolerable the situation for which immigrants waiting also for the sanitary screening are piled on the square of a sanctuary having available a chemical bath, a fountain and spend their nights - listen well - on buses rented by the local transport company. Last Tuesday, you, Minister, finally heard in Trieste the complaints, the protests and the concerns of the local administrators, the authorities and also the Region. We ask you how long you intend to intervene and what answers you intend to give to these cries of pain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u73	Mr President, the issues raised by Senator Ciriani concern aspects relating to the intensification of migratory flows to Lampedusa and which are also affecting Friuli-Venezia Giulia as regards the Balkan route. Of course these phenomena are quite distinct from each other, marked by different causes and with certainly not comparable dimensions. With regard to the immigration pressure on Lampedusa, Italian efforts have concentrated on seeking the collaboration of the Tunisian authorities, in view of the fact that the largest flow comes precisely from Tunisia as a result of the serious political and socio-economic crisis that has hit that country. As I have said, these are mostly autonomous landings where it is difficult to counter effective containment. In any case, it is active, especially with dissuasive purposes, the Pelagie operation that sees Italy engaged with naval structures in the central Mediterranean. With regard to the situation of Friuli-Venezia Giulia, the problem of the increase of arrivals from the Balkan route was also addressed with the collaboration of the Slovenian authorities in virtue of which it was possible to increase the number of re-entrys and strengthen the control services of the border belt. As for the number of admissions, from 1 January to 7 September last, 874 admissions are to be recorded, compared with 202 in the same period of the previous year. Thanks to this collaboration the minor passes can also be better monitored, which are more permeable to irregular entrances both because of the high number and because of their location in mountain or in any case impervious environment. The meeting that took place two days ago, to which you, Senator Ciriani, referred, with the regional authorities and a large number of mayors more exposed to the phenomenon of flows and tracings, especially unaccompanied minors, has allowed to plan a series of interventions and measures among which also an increase of the already substantial military contingent that operates in that Region within the framework of the Safe Roads operation (additional quota that will arrive in the next few days).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u74	Senator Ciriani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u75	Mr President, as the time available to me is short, I will concentrate mainly on the Balkan route because it deserves particular attention, while telling you that these questions, together with all the others I have tabled, serve to remind you that we will not give up on this important issue. You know - and you can ask the police offices - that already in 2018 there had been a tripling of the number of arrests; in 2019 another powerful increase of the people blocked at the border; in 2020 - are official data, Minister - only in July and August were stopped at the Italian-Slovenian border 3,000 people. Minister, you know this huge difference and the citizens and the people who listen to you must also know it. The police forces state that, unlike what happens with landings, the people we manage to stop on the border are, at most, twenty percent of those who cross it every night, which means, given the numbers, that in July and August they have transited illegally through the border of Trieste and Tarvisio at least - and it is a conservative figure - ten thousand people. It would therefore be necessary at last to close at least the minor crossings, which are as numerous as you know, Minister, it would serve more police and even the army because that border should be blocked. We do not need to distribute migrants, we need to block them at the border as all other countries do on the Balkan route, and we need more stringent agreements with Slovenia. We also need to ensure adequate space to quarantine these people, who cannot escape quarantine because people are afraid and are right to have them, since at the Cavarzerani barracks in Udine, which housed six hundred people, there have been taffles, fires and escapes that the police have had to suppress. So, Minister, the time for promises is over, patience is over. I think you can understand, also from the meeting you had, that the Friulian and Julian administrators are not people accustomed to resounding gestures, but now, as I said, patience is over, so if there are no clear, strong and precise answers, I believe that administrators will be able and will have to use all the legal and political instruments at their disposal to protect themselves and to protect the rights of citizens to live safely. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u76	Senator Dal Mas has the power to explain the question 3-201904 on the flow of irregular migrants along the route that crosses the Balkan countries, for three minutes. I call on the senators to comply strictly with the timetable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u77	Mr President, I could also close immediately as the previous speaker summed up a large part of what I am going to say. However, the substance is this: the numbers speak clearly. Mr. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong, but it seems to me that your Ministry's data says that this year's landings - and we're talking about landings - have been over 20,000, which is exactly four times that of the previous year, so we've returned to the 2018 levels. I am not here to make propaganda to the friends of the League because they manage themselves, but in those numbers it is not understood what Mr Ciriani has spoken about, that is the fact that the Balkan route, of which little is spoken, represents a drama for Europe and, according to Frontex data, sees these dimensions today: about one hundred thousand people are between Greece and Turkey and another eight thousand in Bosnia and are ready to come to us. How do we control the approximately 450 kilometers of the border of Friuli-Venezia Giulia? There is no landing and technically it is also difficult to control them. Moreover, many of these people come from high-risk countries from the point of view of the Covid health emergency. They were stationed in countries such as Bosnia, Serbia or Kosovo, the theatre, in recent years, of the dramas we know; to date the epidemiological emergency is added. Well, compared to that, it seems to me that we're getting a little crazy in the dark. She came to Trieste the other day, as well as in July. It seems to me that the answers that the government continues to give are the same and stuttering. It is necessary but what is being done is not enough. We need more attention, we need more technology to control our borders, and here the government has to decide what it wants to do. I believe that from the point of view of the regional authorities the commitment is maximum. It is yesterday's news that the prefecture of Udine has made available two buses because thirty immigrants from the Balkan route were positive at the Covid. We don't know where to keep them. We don't know what to do with them. That's the problem. I therefore await your reply and reserve the right to reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u78	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u79	Mr President, I would first like to point out that the Ministry of the Interior has a particular attention to the phenomenon of migratory flows towards Friuli-Venezia Giulia, as evidenced by the recent visit to Trieste in which, precisely to find concrete solutions to the organizational and logistical difficulties represented me on the spot, I met the President of the Region and a large number of mayors. With regard to the scale of the phenomenon, which is precise that the intense police activity, aimed at the tracing of irregular migrants in the territory, has allowed to activate, much more than in the past, the expeditive procedures of readmission to Slovenia. It is this collaboration with the overseas authorities which is based on the relaunch of the 1996 agreement and which has enabled us to achieve, as I mentioned earlier, quadrupled results in terms of readmission compared to last year. Cooperation with Slovenia will then be able to achieve even more effective results both through joint patrol actions and through coordinated programming of the territorial control services, especially in the supervision of minor crossing points. Moreover, it will certainly benefit, as I said before, an increase in the military contingent already operating in the Region, currently equal to 375 personnel units of the Safe Roads operation. As regards the measures to prevent infection from Covid-19, the interlocations between prefects and local administrators are continuing in order to ensure the health security of citizens. In accordance with the current health protocols, all foreigners, at the time of their entry into the national territory, are subjected to buffer and the consequent actions of isolation and quarantine depending on the results of the investigation. For the implementation of these preventive measures, the prefects of the provinces of Friuli have identified a number of structures with the necessary security and surveillance characteristics. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Dal Mas may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u80	Minister, thank you for your answer, but allow me to object: I have the impression that the Government is running into the dark from the point of view of the problem and the issue of migrants. You are a technician who probably owes your prestigious assignment to the knowledge that you have problems and must mediate between two political forces that have two different visions. I guess it's not easy. In 2016, it was said that the Balkan route was closed for an agreement that Europe made with Erdogan, which resulted in Turkey having about EUR 3 billion. Recently, Ursula von der Leyen said that she was intervening on the Balkan route and I think she gave something like EUR 700 million to Greece. I realize that the effort that the State is trying to make is there and exists, but it is not enough because it does not have a vision. It is not enough to say that we have increased and intensified our relations with Slovenia because we are bringing them back to Slovenia. What are they doing in Slovenia? What is Europe's vision of this drama that is epochal, which obviously concerns not only the landings that take place in Sicily, coming from Africa, but the Balkan route and everything that comes from the East? I repeat the previous numbers: according to Frontex, there are about 100,000 people, desperate, who are trying to get to Europe and will pass through Friuli and the Balkan route; 8,000 are already in Bosnia. Compared to that, after what you told us, I'm not at all comfortable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u81	Senator Candiani has the right to explain the question 3-201905 on the management of migrants' landings also in relation to the epidemic emergency, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u82	Mr. Minister, I'd like to start with one of your considerations, a statement you made to the press just a few days ago. The press, reporting his words, wrote that: Although there is an increasing trend of autonomous landings compared to 2019, current numbers do not represent an emergency. You also state that: "The difficulties are of a logistical nature linked to the preventive health measures established for the Covid-19". Anyone who hears these words should be reassured. Minister, last Wednesday I was in Lampedusa, with the President of the Extraordinary Commission for the Protection and Promotion of Human Rights; we saw a gruesome situation, which obviously the Government keeps hidden, not different from those that can be found in some centres in the North-East. If there had been Matteo Salvini and the League government, you would have called the blue helmets to intervene: it is a situation that describes how unbecoming it is to say little. The reality is that the landings have not only not ended, but have increased; not only has the Balkan route been reopened, but the numbers have unfortunately increased. Now, Minister, let us question you because we want to know things clearly, we want to know what the situation is and so I turn immediately to the questions. We want to know how much the total number of migrants landed on the shores of Lampedusa, from the date of declaration of the national health emergency to today, and whether the Government intends to put in place a plan that blocks the continuous arrival of boats on our coasts, that is, if it has plans to continue an indiscriminate policy of reception - take good care: I use the adjective "unsubscribed," meaning that today they are Tunisians, that nothing has to do with the refugees or with those who come from the war zones - despite the aggression due to the management of the health emergency in our country. We also ask whether the Government intends to implement a concrete plan on combating illegal immigration, which also includes decisive action against trafficking in human beings, which you have reactivated. The numbers are clear! [[Applause]] The 20,000 arrivals this year are four times the 5,000 of the previous year and are exactly, as has already been anticipated, the same issue of 2018. So you reactivated the mechanism of human trafficking. I also ask how the government intends to manage all migrants currently hosted on ships for isolation measures due to the Covid-19 after the quarantine is completed and whether a return program is planned for all those who do not come from conflict zones or theater of war. It is clear, Minister, that the escamotage you have found in recent weeks to fill with migrants the ferry ships, i.e. cruise ships, when the quarantine period ends, will cease. We know very well that you have to give answers and we have already understood, as you said, that your criterion is that of widespread acceptance and this means to restart that business mechanism on migration, which we have dismantled. Well, Minister, the situation that I saw in Lampedusa and which I referred to earlier is also that of ten policemen who have been checking 360 landed, who have not been testing for Covid for more than a week. Carabinieri and cops didn't even have a place where they could do their own needs and didn't even have food assistance. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Candiani, I invite you to conclude. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). This is not a controlled management of the phenomenon, but it is a real emergency. Moreover, to divide them from the rest of the island, a wall of one meter and no buffer made. Having said that, Minister, I look forward to your answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u83	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u84	Mr President, the phenomenon of immigration has complex characteristics determined by geopolitical factors, which involve the need for complex strategies, assuming that the Italian border in the Mediterranean represents the external border of Europe. That is why we must give even more strength to the conclusions of the summit in Malta in September last year, by providing for a structured compulsory distribution mechanism applicable to all Member States of the Union. On this we are strongly committed to building the necessary consensus at European level and we aim to do so in the framework of the new European Pact on Immigration and Asylum. In addition to the strategy of the European tables, we have bilateral relations with Libya and Tunisia and the recent missions in Tunis, which have seen the involvement of Commissioners Várhelyi and Johansson, have served to strengthen the Italian and European collaborative action towards that country. Coming to the specific questions, precise that, from the date of declaration of the state of emergency for the epidemic, have arrived in Lampedusa about 12,000 migrants, most of which Tunisians, proof of the fact that an exceptional element of thrust is constituted by the political and socio-economic crisis that has invested that country, also due to the effect of the pandemic. Faced with a rather intense resumption of the landings, they were reactivated, at the end of the lockdown, thanks to the collaboration with the Tunisian authorities, the returns to that country, through two charter flights, for 40 migrants in flight. I also inform you that, even for a deterrent purpose, Operation Pelagie has been activated, which sees engaged, with the respective naval set-ups, the Navy, the Coast Guard and the Finance Guard, in the surveillance of the central Mediterranean section affected by the flows. Finally, with regard to the management of migrants at the end of the planned quarantine period, their destination will be a result of the strict determination of their right to remain in the national territory. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Candiani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u85	Mr President, it is clear that the Minister has not answered the questions that have been asked. The numbers, however, are merciless: 20,000 in front of 5,000. Minister of the Interior Matteo Salvini with the League to the Government: the flows of illegal immigration are falling; the Democratic Party returns to the Government and the flows are substantially those of 2018. Then, Minister, let me tell you something: go to Lampedusa, but do not tell us before; go there during any day of landings. Last night, he would have found the exasperated people at the port, because last night they were still filling the hotspot with the latest arrivals. And what you call "boat," or ghost landings, if she goes to the port, will see that they are boats with 15-horse engines that are not able to cross the Mediterranean. But you know very well, because you have the Service files at the Ministry: those boats come from mother ships: they are carried a few miles from the coast and then dropped. Trafficking in human beings must be stopped there! [[Applause]] If you do not intervene in this action, it means that you have consciously decided to restart the traffic and business of illegal immigrants, which, when they arrive on our territory, cost the Italians 600 million euros. On these issues we do not agree, and we are very concerned, Minister, because, even in your words, it is clear that the pre-election climate is causing all the information to be covered up. You want to disassemble the security decree, you don't know how to stop landings, you don't give answers on where you're going to re-collect those currently on quarantine ships. When the quarantine is over, what will happen to those who simply signed with a cross, claiming that they are asylum seekers? People who come from Tunisia and we have seen, in recent days arrive with the dog on a leash. Will you put them back into the business mechanism of the fake cooperatives in Italy? We're gonna stop you from doing this! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u86	Senator Garavini has the right to explain the question 3-0191 on the instruments for the protection of families in case of quarantine in the school, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u87	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, after months of school closure, starting in the next two weeks, all schools in the country will reopen. It is good news, news from us of Italy Viva invoked for a long time. We are pleased that we are going to proceed, but it is clear that, given the situation, we must be aware of the risk and the possibility that, when reopening, individual cases of infection occur, precisely because of the contagiousness, still in place, of the coronavirus pandemic. This, however, must not be the alibi for further slipping of the reopenings, but it must be, if anything, the occasion to put in place, first of all, a whole series of stringent measures, aimed at the rekindling of new contagions and, second, measures that allow, precisely in a preventive way, also to support the families with respect to the ability to deal with possible contagions of their children and to overcome the situation with tranquility. We know that, in the indications given by the Higher Institute of Health, it is expected that, if the infection of even one pupil should occur, the whole class should be quarantined. In view of the fact that it is plausible for a number of parents to see the need to take care of children in quarantine and, at the same time, want - clearly - not to jeopardise their work, we have tabled our question, with which we ask them, Minister: whether it intends to put in place extraordinary measures, precisely with a view to the reopening of schools; whether there is the corresponding financial cover for the measures it intends to prepare; and, at the same time, also in the light of the precedent, whether it is also appropriate to provide for mechanisms to avoid cases of inappropriate abuse of the measures itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u88	The Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family, Professor Bonetti, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to deal with the health emergency from the outset and the consequent suspension of schools and childcare services, the Government has put in place a number of extraordinary measures for families, such as extraordinary parental leave and babysitting bonuses. In view of the continuation of the emergency, the relaunch decree has further strengthened these measures by extending the leave period to 30 days and extending the relative time span of use. However, the performance of work in agile manner, which has been indicated as an ordinary way of carrying out work in the public administration and the private sector, has also been described as a genuine right for parents working with children up to fourteen years of age. In the imminence of the resumption of the school year, in the light of the epidemiological trends and indications of the Higher Institute of Health of 28 August, it was considered appropriate to take action again with ad hoc rules to manage possible necessary absences of working parents in case of infection or quarantine of their children due to the effect of school contacts. For this reason, in the decree-law that was published in the Official Journal on 8 September, valid from 9 September, a rule has been introduced that, in the event that the minor child up to fourteen years old is subject to the measure of quarantine, the parent for all this period can take advantage of and resort to agile work, when it is compatible with the specific forecasts of public work and private work. Where this benefit is incompatible with the proposed agile procedure, special leave paid at 50% and covered by a figurative contribution may be used - again for the same period of quarantine. In order to avoid any possible abuse of the benefits, the rule provides that the benefits cannot be used simultaneously by both parents, but this also with a view to promoting greater co-responsibility between fathers and mothers. As regards the coverage of expenditure, the benefit of the allowance is recognised within a limit of EUR 50 million for 2020, which would be such as to guarantee the coverage of 50,000 cases with regard to employees. In conclusion, I therefore want to ensure the greatest attention of myself and of the whole Government to the problems of working parents and students and I commit myself as of now, since the epidemiological situation is constantly evolving, to take care through my offices to monitor new needs of families that might arise and to intervene if necessary with the appropriate adjustments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Garavini has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u90	Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the measures you have announced, which reassure us, comfort us and give us the sense of your commitment and, above all, the awareness of how, precisely in a situation like this, still unfortunately of an emergency linked to the coronavirus, it is important for the Government to put in place preventive measures to ensure the recovery of the school year in the most peaceful way possible; measures therefore that, on the one hand, take care to intervene promptly when cases of contagion occur and, on the other hand, put the families in a position to plan their activities with guarantees regarding the right to exercise their work. We are satisfied and we are pleased to note that these measures are perfectly in line with the various measures you have taken since your installation, measures that are therefore capable not only of coping with the emergency, but also of thinking about a more modern country, which also sees a female protagonism in the world of work and which also seeks to promote reconciliation between the world of work and the family world in a fairer management between men and women.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u91	Senator Fedeli has the right to explain the question 3-201908 on the finalization of the Fund for the personal training of housewives, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u92	Minister, Article 22 of Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020 establishes and finances the Fund for the personal training of housewives by EUR 3 million per year from 2020. Paragraph 2 of the same article refers to a subsequent decree of the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family, to be issued by 31 December 2020, the determination of the criteria and methods of departure. You know that this House voted unanimously in May a resolution calling on the Government - and thus committing it - to put the priority of women's employment at the centre. You also know that the Italian female employment rate is below 10% of the European average and you also know that in order to deal with this fact, we need to have a policy of empowerment and mainstreaming, that is, the capacity of horizontal policies. It does not escape that with these data there is also some problem with the fact that in this decree there is talk of housewives. I also want to highlight a given from the very point of view of stereotypes. Do you think it is possible that we are still talking about housewives in 2020 when Istat data also tell us about women and men? I am not just referring to women who, unfortunately, have had a further increase in unemployment since Covid, but also to the fact that we work towards sharing family responsibilities. It is daunting, among other things, for those young husbands and fathers who, instead, in recent years have faced the responsibility of sharing also care work. I believe that from this point of view too it would be important to change the reference model. That is why, Minister, I ask you, if possible, to know whether you will give priority to the use of the fund for the promotion of training activities that are functional to the occupational integration of housewives and housewives, as well as to the objective of enhancing care work through the services, that is to say, by truly building an economy of care. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u93	The Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family, Professor Bonetti, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u94	Mr President, as the honourable Member has pointed out, the fund in question is intended to finance training courses, preferably in the financial and digital fields, in order to help, in particular, women who are out of work and are therefore excluded from the possibility of updating and employing, to acquire more qualifications and therefore tools of empowerment to strengthen their skills. The main aim is to prevent the choice of staying at home from becoming compulsory due to the lack of alternatives, guaranteeing women the necessary freedom to choose and therefore to have the opportunity to enter the world of work. It is also an opportunity to set up networks of relationships involving women who sometimes experience isolation and loneliness which aggravate their personal situation. Finally, there is the objective, which has been mentioned, to qualify the condition of care in the context of greater sharing between male and female responsibility. Let us remember that women today are certainly the subjects most affected by domestic care. This situation has worsened further as a result of the recent outbreak by Covid-19, for which women have paid a very high price, also in terms of loss of employment for the workload and unpaid care, which is intensifying a structural situation that is likely to aggravate marginality, fragility and discrimination. In order to better understand the weight of care work on the lives of women in particular in our country, it is useful to consider another fact: the percentage of inactive women for family responsibility on the total female population and not only on the inactive one. Italy is the country of the European Union with more inactive women for care responsibilities. To recognise, therefore, a right to training also for housewives and to invest resources so that they can increase their skills means guaranteeing those necessary empowerment rights guaranteed by our Constitutional Charter. The employment criterion will be a priority criterion in the repartition, as well as some elements such as digital skills, business digitisation and the possibility of entrepreneurial training, attention to women with disabilities and, as has been mentioned, a front covering the necessary structuring of a greater care economy that will also include more male employment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the right to speak in response to Senator Fedeli for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u95	Mr. Minister, I take your words for good, of course. We will work to implement the text and correctly finalise what is foreseen in the so-called August Decree to the prevailing objectives of a qualifying link with recognized training centres, which can actually provide the skills that can be spent in the market. From this point of view I am therefore satisfied with the commitment that you have shown here and of course we will work together to ensure that this is correctly specified in the so-called August Decree. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u96	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u99	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the House an emblematic case of the real situation of the Italian school four days after the opening scheduled for 14 September, beyond the statements of Prime Minister Conte and Minister Azzolina. I am referring to the Institute including Perugia 11 - G. Pascoli, which includes three schools for children, two primary schools and a secondary school of first degree, for a total of 1,000 students with related families involved and teachers. What happened? On 7 September last, the school council, on a proposal from the school manager, took note of the situation and decided unanimously to postpone the opening from 14 to 24 September, putting the reasons blank. In the first place, there are no benches that should have guaranteed distance and, above all, there are not the 35 teachers needed (15 for primary schools and 20 for first grade secondary school). This is particularly bad because the principal has made it clear that he does not feel like reopening unless he can guarantee all his students - particularly the most fragile and disabled - what it is to live the school to the full. Well, this is the real life that every day faces pupils, families and school workers, beyond declarations. It is not an isolated case if, just a few days ago, the Italian Coordination of Support Teachers drew the attention of the Minister and the Government to the doubts and inability that still exist in giving the answers to the children, who are the most affected together with their families. We have already mentioned the polemics followed by some statements by the Minister in March and April, when it was not possible, in fact, to guarantee the children from home the teaching and the closeness. Well, this is the situation of the school: an artificial bubble has been created in which the children have, moreover, forced paths to do perhaps without the parents, with the distancement of the companions and the teachers with the boxer, thus being also psychologically disturbed. Then, however, outside the school this may not be worth any more, because the bus - even with the windows open to Fantozzi - can be taken occupying up to 80 percent of the seats covered, however football is played and in the park you can see the children of the other classes that are usually not seen. These are the useless rules, and in this case also harmful, that the Government has succeeded in adopting and that - alas - we had signalled and denounced in time. Once again, we regret, as a League, that we were right in the face of a disaster that has been announced since 14 September, which will probably affect many schools, like that of Perugia, whose situation we wanted to denounce in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u100	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-09-10-LEG18-Senato-sed-257.ana.u101	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 23 September, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 16.04 a.m.)
