ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] ). Mr Senators, I would like to invite this House to meet at a time of solemn recollection in memory of Master Ennio Morricone, an Italian genius who has been and will continue to be the soundtrack of an Italy that has conquered the world by the power of music. A person of incredible sensitivity and profound poetry, Ennio Morricone had that wonderful ability to shape the notes to transform them into unique emotions, sensations and images of universal value. Arranger, musician, composer, conductor, has been able to make versatility its true strength and distinctive feature of a monumental artistic production. No one like Ennio Morricone has managed to decline together the language of music with that of film narration, becoming the greatest composer of soundtracks of all time; that cinema that, from the beginning with his childhood friend Sergio Leone to Hollywood successes, has consecrated its artistic immortality with two Oscar awards, 10 David by Donatello, 11 silver ribbons and a Golden Lion to the career. Yet the success achieved at national and international level, the many awards, prizes and numerous honors received in more than seventy years of career have never been for Ennio Morricone a point of arrival, but only stages, certainly exciting, of a life entirely dedicated to art and music. His talent was natural, spontaneous, inspired by an irrepressible desire to tell and tell, a talent constantly fueled by the curiosity of knowing, understanding, understanding, discovering and experimenting always new genres, new melodies, new sounds. I still remember with affection his emotion last January 11 when, in this legislative Chamber, he received the Italian Genius and Excellence award in the world; the genuine emotion of an art giant who has never lost his humanity and for this reason he is able to make many generations dream with open eyes. With its disappearance Italy remains an orphan of an authentic icon of contemporary culture, a poet of harmonies and beauties that has given so much to the history of music, and that in the history of music will remain as an Italian boast in the world. In memory of Master Ennio Morricone, I invite you to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's recollection. Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u6	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, when someone's disappearance is celebrated, the risk of falling into rhetoric is always around the corner: the risk of hyperbola, high-sounding definitions and the most striking adjectives. Today we don't run this risk: Ennio Morricone was really one of the greatest musicians of the twentieth century and symbol of that italic genius that, from Leonardo onwards, tells about the uniqueness of our country; he was really the one who made Italian culture and cinema known and loved all over the world. His greatness lies in having revolutionized the role of music in cinema, which before him was called to a minor task. Morricone has made it a work of high tailoring, a dress tailor-made by the protagonists to capture all the emotional nuances. How can we not remember Elena's theme in New Cinema paradise, when the protagonist nostalgically retraces her past and recalls the woman so loved? How can we not remember the music of "Novecento" or "Once upon a time in America" that soon came out of the film borders to evoke in the social imagination precise periods of our recent history? With Morricone he leaves us a vivid example of how artifacts are divided between high and popular culture: this is especially true for music, which can really touch the strings of everyone, without cultural, generational or geographical distinctions. He was truly a complete musician: the master was not afraid to confront himself with light or popular music, engaging with the contemporary avant-garde music, up to the composition of symphonies and great soundtracks, in a Rossinian crescendo, which will lead him to touch artistic levels of absolute value. His letter of farewell gives us the image of a person who, despite his extraordinary successes, has never lost for a moment the things that really matter in life: the love for his family, the sense of friendship, the need to take a little step back from the character in order to put his person back to the centre. Morricone leaves us an extraordinary treasure, which is now up to us to guard and transmit to future generations, to all those who love cinema, music, and to those who tomorrow will wonder what is the place of Italian culture in the world. But I think there will be no need for it: Morricone's work will continue to live and perhaps - as the great director Tarantino said - will really be remembered and celebrated as the Mozart of our time. May the earth be light to you, Master. Thank you so much for everything you've left us! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u9	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, to commemorate Ennio Morricone is useless, because his greatness does not need words, it does not need memories. His greatness lies in his work, in his music, in the emotions that he was able to arouse in all of us, nobody excluded. It's useless to list the songs that have marked our lives or at least important moments in everyone's life, I think. In particular, I wanted to take the floor for a very small testimony. I was immersive in the role of Minister of Defence, and on November 4 of each year, in Piazza del Popolo, I had decided to celebrate that date - the date of the Feast of the Armed Forces and of National Unity - with a great concert. For the last of these, just before the Berlusconi government fell, I turned to Ennio Morricone to know if he wanted to direct it. I certainly knew that, if he had openly expressed political ideas, he had certainly never expressed them for my political part. But Ennio Morricone told me that if there was to honor the institutions he was always ready: he gave me - and I believe everyone - a lesson from those who lived for music, gave music. But greatness in art is almost always accompanied by a great presence of spirit and soul, which on that occasion showed me. His concert was as always splendid, and the notes of his music still resound me, not only in the head, but above all in the heart. Honour to Ennio Morricone! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u12	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, you said well: Italy and the world have lost a great musician, a great filmmaker and a great artist. Of course, our country boasts a brilliant tradition of musicians who have signed splendid soundtracks and have received well-deserved successes; but Ennio Morricone was perhaps the most important and the greatest among them, because no one like him has been able to cross all sorts of artistic, spatial and generational boundaries. Graduated in several specializations at the conservatory of Santa Cecilia, he was certainly a cultured and sophisticated musician who in his long life has never abandoned classical composition. But he was also a master able to write songs that marked an era and that perhaps for this reason they resisted the impact of time; they passed from generation to generation and became classics. Who does not know, even among the youngest, songs in their eternal way, such as "Sapore di sale" or "Se telefonando"? Ennio Morricone was a master of classical music, but he knew the importance of the popular song, which he deeply respected. If there is a democratic conception of art, no one has been able to incarnate it better than he. The great success came in 1964, with the soundtracks of the western films of his former schoolmate Sergio Leone. He had already written music for the cinema and would later sign the soundtrack of over 500 films. But talking about Ennio Morricone as a musician able to add something more to the films he collaborated with would be absolutely reductive. Of many of these films, and in particular those by Sergio Leone, Morricone is actually co-author. Those masterpieces owe him almost as much as the director; without his music, they would be something else. What exactly would it be "Once upon a time in America"? What would other movies be without his music? Morricone was at the same time a musician and filmmaker. Perhaps even here he acted that open and democratic conception of art that allowed him to move on the border between sounds and images, often finding the perfect balance point. Ennio was one of the most successful and important Italian artists in the world. He has collaborated with directors of enormous importance all over the world, he has been awarded with Oscar, with four Golden Globes and with 10 David by Donatello, but he has always remained an Italian musician, linked to his country and, to the last, to the cinema of his country. He was Italian and cosmopolitan. But the most important boundary that Morricone's art has been able to break down is the generational one: musicians of different nationalities and of different generations have brought his music to the stage. Many rock complexes opened their concerts with Ennio Morricone's music, dedicated songs to him, recognized their debt to him. Among the functions of art, creating bridges is certainly not the last in importance: bridges between different languages and forms of expression, between high culture and popular culture, between different countries, between different generations. Few have done so well and in many different areas like Ennio Morricone. For this reason it is right that today not only Italy, but the whole world greet him and thank him. Thank you, master! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u15	ROJC (PD). Mr President, many people have spoken of Ennio Morricone. Remembering the great master, I think of a thought of Modest Musorgsky, which says how the melody, the sound that does not constitute a memory of a nation or an absent friend marks the nation of the dead. I believe that Ennio Morricone, with his refined ability to speak with his musical language to each of us, to all, and specifically to create a very close union between the various arts, even with the seventh art, had the ability to develop that great evocative thought that all great art possesses. Humanity in its development created first the rhythm and then the melody, even before the word; Ennio Morricone was able to express it. A pupil of that great revolutionary who was Goffredo Petrassi, he has somehow grasped the refined language, but, as has just been said, he has given everyone the ability to understand what music and poetry are. The poem, says Claudio Magris, is a note in an empty chair, left empty by a friend. Maybe we filled that chair, left empty, with the poetry of Ennio Morricone's music. Thank you, master! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u18	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, faced with a giant like Ennio Morricone, we cannot help but wonder what art is: art is any activity of man aimed at exalting talent and expressive ability. Definitely Ennio Morricone had both these qualities: an innate natural talent and an expressive ability to communicate emotions. Art, in the end, is this: it is something that excites us, makes us dream, makes us think and makes us think. Ennio Morricone has been able to do all this in his long artistic activity. I was very impressed by the obituary that he himself wrote for his death, which in some way is a perfect synthesis of his personality: a sensibility characterized by human simplicity, united, of course, as we have said, to an innate artistic intelligence. In that obituary, as in one of his compositions, in a powerful final crescendo, the teacher leaves at the bottom what transmits us to be dear to him, that is not his genius, are not his compositions and his long artistic activity: what it costs him most to leave is his wife, Mrs. Maria, to whom of course the condolences of us all go. Master Morricone does not write that he is sorry to leave this life or his works, but that he is sorry to abandon the extraordinary love that kept us together. I find this beautiful thing and tells us about the extraordinaryness of a man, who can only marry with an extraordinary artistic ability, with a sensitivity and a humanity that has been able to convey great emotions. There is no reference in his obituary to his compositions, to his abilities, to his music, to his successes and to his glory, but only to relationships and also in this I believe that Master Morricone leaves us a great teaching and transmits us an extraordinary work: the meaning of life are relationships and affections. I believe that this mild man, simple, who has been able not to make great of the extraordinary successes that we have mentioned in many in this House, this authentic and ingenious man, even at the point of death, gives us a gift and a truly extraordinary composition in this obituary. It remains a great of our time: like perhaps no one else could score the music, crossing the popular one, the light one, the symphonic one and the cinematographic compositions, as the President recalled. He marked our time, leaving an indelible imprint, which will surely be remembered for a very long time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u21	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to join the voice of Forza Italia with the words of the Presidency, in remembering a great Italian who made his country great in the world and made great the musical art, which is not always realized and blooms in his homeland. Unfortunately, it is typical of our country, especially in the world of culture and art, to attend great national talents, which flourish not in the country, but abroad. We have commemorated in this House the figure of Master Zeffirelli, an immortal figure, but which has been recognized across borders even before being recognized in the Homeland. This was not the case of Master Morricone, who had the extraordinary genius of imposing himself in the world using a foreign canon, the western, the film western, declined however to Italian and ennobled through an attention that normally cinema had not yet put: the soundtrack as the protagonist of the film, not as a background or as a musical base waiting for the protagonists and actors to fill the empty spaces of silence with their words. The music has become the protagonist thanks to Morricone, has remained the protagonist in the world cinematography and has been a powerful music. This was the extraordinary talent of Morricone's genius: to make cinematic music powerful thanks to a symphonic orchestration that had no precedent in the history of cinema, that he did school and that remained in our memory. There is a bit of Ennio Morricone's art in each of us because in our memories there is always something related to a film and, in most of the films that we remember and that arouse something in us, there were Ennio Morricone's notes. His talent is probably unattainable and he did school, the symphonic power he expressed in his life did not have a consideration in his human qualities. I remember, as has been done by others, the last words intended for the public who left us, that "I don't want to disturb" when he had private funerals. It is a sensibility, an attention, a sweetness of the past, but it is also a sign of strength, the strength of a man who has always put his own art and talent at the centre; not the figure of the artist, not his own figure, not his own image, but his own art. So when he dies, the art remains and the figure doesn't crush the art. A great Italian certainly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u24	Mr Borgonzoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I could start this speech by telling you how great Morricone has made our country. I think that there is no state or place in this world where his music is not known, but to do this you do not have to be great experts in music. I also think that the President has well told us how great and multifaceted he has been and what he has done in his life. I could certainly tell, as I think each of us in this House, how much I cried, smiled, I was excited to listen to his music; how certainly with his films he explained to us how the notes and sounds can tell like the images. I think, for example, of the delicacy and suggestion that left us in films like "New Cinema Paradiso." I could tell you all about this. Then I totally share a phrase that he has repeated so many times: I think that when in a hundred, two hundred years, they want to understand what we were like, it's because of the movie music that they're gonna find out. But I think this would be very restrictive because we are talking about a genius. In the speeches that preceded me I heard someone say that, in its immensity, it went beyond the music, beyond the story, the simplest one that maybe we can do and that everyone could do. For me he has also left us a legacy of the great teachings of life. I would like to mention two in particular. One is addressed to the youngest, one is addressed to those who rule: those who rule now, but those who rule always. These are two great lessons and we should probably treasure them, because if we were just to say how great it was in this House today, we would only point out one thing that is before everyone's eyes. In love, as in art, constancy is everything; I don't know if there is lightning strike or supernatural intuition; I know that there are hold, consistency, seriousness, duration and fidelity. This sentence should be imprinted in the heads of the youngest (even in all of us, but certainly in the youngest), because it teaches us how shortcuts cannot be enough. You can be geniuses, maybe you can be great in what we love to do, but without tenacity, without that indomitable desire to carry on your dream by working night and day, you can't get anywhere. This is a great teaching and perhaps even greater than the magnificent music he composed. The other great lesson, which I think we should all keep in mind, was expressed on the occasion of an offer by Rai, which you may all remember in this House, when they told him: there is EUR 10,000 for her and for the orchestra. He replied: now I can also decide to work for free on the TV of my country, but the musicians must be respected. Scoring a soundtrack with an orchestra costs 20,000, 30,000, 40,000 euros, I can't ask musicians to play at their expense. With this answer he wanted to teach us about respect for work and, moreover, by calling the State Rai TV, he stressed the importance and his desire to recognize the State, to work for a State that may have recognized it from time to time. On the other hand, however, he tells us how the work is fundamental and it would be hypocritical today, in this House, to tell only the great artist who was and not decide, perhaps all together, to invest in his honour more money precisely for the workers, for the many artists, for that world of entertainment that he loved so much, that he is now honoring him and that we, investing too little in culture, do not honor. So let's learn from this great genius to be bigger and better people, too. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u27	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I, too, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, express my condolences and sadness at the disappearance of Master Ennio Morricone. But let me also bring a personal memory, because I met Ennio Morricone thanks to my father, who had a great and long friendship with Sergio Leone, and I lived - I can say even at the right age I would say - the set and the workmanship of the film "There was once in America." I have therefore met Ennio Morricone, a very shy person but, as has been recalled, a delicacy and an unusual sensitivity. I also had the impression that at certain times he had a very deep shyness and respect for the person, no matter if a child, adult or boy, with whom he came to discuss cinema; in fact he tried to answer with great tact questions that can be asked with curiosity. This obviously adds a lot compared to a person I met when he was in contact with director Sergio Leone for many years; they were school friends, there is still a photo here in Rome in a club that portrays them on school benches. It is very impressive: two people who have had talent and genius and who have travelled parallel roads until joining a partnership. It has been remembered, but it is worth it, because it is still studied in all universities the perfect symbiosis that there is between the musical and cinematographic narration for images, also through the editing, which is something absolutely new; it is a recipe that I have called infallible, almost magical, Mr President, that many in the cinema have tried to replicate, but nobody has succeeded. In the world of cinema there are other well lasting partnerships, think of Hitchcock, think of Spielberg with John Williams, but that between Sergio Leone and Ennio Morricone in my opinion draws on their experience, their relationship, the great understanding they had in seeing the cinema, in dreaming. Let us remember that Sergio Leone himself came from Trastevere and was able to represent the world of American gangsters or in any case to tell America and the American frontier with a look and an irony all Roman, but with great credibility, with great skill. I challenge anyone not to believe that Once upon a time in America - it was transmitted a few days ago - is one of the greatest, perhaps the greatest masterpiece of cinema [[Applause]] , without anything to take away from other great directors, but it is an emotional fact. And I come to the second speech: the themes of Ennio Morricone are certainly born as soundtracks that accompany beautiful images, but they are something that accompanies our emotions. I believe that the soundtracks of Ennio Morricone - among the most important ones of Sergio Leone's films, of "Nuovo Cinema Paradiso" (New Cinema Paradiso), of "Mission" (Mission), an extraordinary film, capable of grasping the greatness of spirituality, with a soundtrack that was able to musically comment on nature combined with spirituality, asceticism, something truly unrealizable - have crossed the cinema and entered our consciences, into our lives, becoming the soundtracks of our lives. In fact, emotions have the great ability to be activated obviously by images, but also by sound. Ennio Morricone then had a remarkable confidence in talents, debutantes, young people; that is, although he was a person with an extraordinary career, already hypercelebrated - as has been mentioned he won many prizes - he did not back out in offering his collaboration to young directors. It was Ennio Morricone himself who said that, with the disappearance of Sergio Leone, despite a world made of music and sounds that filled his life, he was faced with a great silence. So it is also for us today with his death. I am pleased that the Movimento 5 Stars of Rome immediately filed a motion to name the Auditorium Parco della musica in memory of the master Ennio Morricone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u28	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1491, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteurs, Senators Ferrara and Mirabelli, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Ferrara.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u29	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, which has already been approved by the House of Members with amendments, which ratify and implement two amending protocols, respectively the 1960 Paris Convention and the 1963 Brussels Convention on Civil Liability in the Field of Nuclear Energy. As rapporteur for the 3rd Commission, I would remind you that the Paris Convention on Civil Liability of Third Parties in the field of Nuclear Energy, adopted within the framework of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, is the first international instrument on profiles relating to civil liability for damage caused by nuclear accidents and such uniform rules to be adopted in the States that are part of it, currently in number of 15. After having been amended by the adoption of appropriate protocols in 1964 and 1982, the Paris Convention was subject to amending measures in 2004 by means of the Protocol which was the subject of this ratification, negotiated to improve compensation for damage caused by nuclear accidents. (The sitting was suspended at 10.15 a.m.) (Ferrara, rapporteur). The second protocol which is the subject of this ratification is designed to amend the 1963 Brussels Convention, which, in addition to the 1960 Paris Convention and of which Italy is a contracting party, was adopted with a view to providing additional financial resources to compensate for the damage caused by nuclear accidents. The Amending Protocol to the said Brussels Convention, which was made in Paris on 12 February 2004 and not yet in force, since it is currently ratified by three countries with respect to the six prescribed ones, reaffirms the pivotal principle of the Paris Convention for which civil liability is solely borne by the operator of a nuclear plant for peaceful uses and also defines its scope, requiring that liability for damage to the operator of a nuclear installation located in the territory of a Contracting country and that such damage be suffered in the territory of maritime areas located beyond the territorial sea, or in the exclusive economic zone of a Contracting country. The draft ratification law consists of five articles. Article 4, which contains the financial provisions, provides for the coverage of the costs arising from the provisions of the Protocols. The protocols do not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and other international obligations assumed by our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u30	I call the rapporteur, Senator Mirabelli.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u31	I'm quitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u32	The Presidency takes note of this. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u33	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u35	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I am voting in favour of the draft ratification law before us and also the subsequent ones.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u36	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u37	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u38	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to announce the vote in favour of the draft law under consideration and the subsequent ratifications by the Democratic Party, since there has been a wide-ranging debate and wide-ranging sharing in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u41	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u44	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I rise to express my support for the ratification of the Protocol on civil liability in the field of nuclear energy by the Forza Italia Group. We hope that this will also be the occasion for a positive protagonism of Italy on the international scene. I would also ask that I be able to deliver the written text of my speech on subsequent ratifications, on which (except for 1385) I am now announcing the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you and the senators who so requested.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u47	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I, too, am voting in favour of the bill of ratification by the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group and I pre-announce the vote in favour of all other ratifications, subject to 1385. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). All right, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u48	I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u49	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1379. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u50	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Protocol signed in December 2016 amending the 1984 Convention between Italy and Ecuador in order to avoid double taxation on income and wealth taxes and to prevent tax evasion. The purpose of this Protocol is to update and adapt the definition of taxes provided for in the 1984 Bilateral Convention and its Protocol to the most recent international standards, notably by implementing the provisions of the OECD model in relation to the scope of use of the information exchanged and its scope of operation. The intention behind the measure is to intensify administrative cooperation between the two countries on the exchange of information, in accordance with the priority objective of combating tax evasion and avoidance. The bill of ratification consists of three articles and does not provide additional economic burdens for the state budget. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with the European Union's legal order and with the other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u51	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u52	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1701, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u53	Mr President, as you said, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies, which ratified the January 2018 Convention between Italy and Colombia in order to eliminate double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax evasion and avoidance. The bilateral agreement, in particular, aims to regulate the fiscal aspects relating to the economic and financial relations between Italy and Colombia, in order to eliminate the phenomenon of double taxation and to achieve a balanced distribution of tax matters between the two States. As stated in the report accompanying the text, the stable legal framework that will result, with its ratification, in addition to protecting the general interests falling within the competence of the Italian financial administration, will allow Italian companies to operate in Colombia under conditions fully competitive compared to operators in other advanced economy countries, offering conditions of certainty also for investors of the counterpart in Italy. The bilateral agreement, which complies with the most recent standards of the OECD model, as well as those resulting from the recommendation of the OECD G20 project on combating circumvention and artificial shift of tax bases, consists of 31 articles and a protocol. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u54	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u56	You have the right to do so. To intervene, you should come down, Senator Marilotti.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u57	However, this rule will have to lapse sooner or later because there is a limit to everything! [[Applause]] MARILOTTI (M5S). Mr President, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am voting in favour of both this and the other measures we are debating today.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u58	I remember that Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi and Lucidi have already declared their vote in favour. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u59	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1509, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u60	Mr President, the ratification and implementation of the Agreement on cinema and audiovisual co-production between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, with an annex made in Rome on 25 May 2015, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies, is a classic bilateral protocol of understanding, which falls within the framework of the agreements aimed at strengthening cultural cooperation between our country and Bulgaria. Mr President, I would ask for permission, if necessary, to attach the written text of the report to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u61	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u62	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, allow me also to make a final thought. The hope is that the exchange between countries is real and not an opportunity to delocalize Italian productions with public money abroad, as has often happened in this country. For the rest, we agree with the ratification of this agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u63	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u64	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1384. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u65	Mr President, as a sensitive subject, I would like to highlight a number of important points in this ratification. The measure intervenes in the 1981 Council of Europe Convention 108, and is one of the most important binding instruments for the protection of persons with regard to the automated processing of personal data. The protocol consists of a preamble, 40 articles and an appendix; it is the result of a long negotiation work carried out in the wider context of the reforms of international personal data protection instruments and in parallel with the reform of EU data protection legislation. This regulatory update has made it possible to broaden the definition of personal data; to introduce new categories of data, from genetic to biometric ones; to consolidate the guarantees and rights that can be exercised by the data subject for the control of their information and the exercise of self-determination; to increase the responsibility of the data controller and the controller and to centralise governance and control over the compliance and compliance of processing. I conclude by saying that the draft ratification law consists of five articles and that Article 4 lays down a clause of financial invariance. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u66	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u67	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1508, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u68	Mr President, we are faced with a classic protocol of agreement on the elimination of double taxation on income taxes. There are no particular profiles compared to the standards of other ratifications similar to this one. I therefore ask the Presidency to give the written text of the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u69	The Presidency authorizes it to do so. There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u70	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1606, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u71	Mr President, this is an agreement which, again in this case, follows similar measures which have already been examined both in the Commission and in this House and which stems from a precise commitment by the Italian Government to the N'Djamena authorities. It responds to the need to define the legal framework within which to strengthen bilateral cooperation in the field of defence, also in order to improve mutual understanding on security issues, including - it is not indifferent - the fight against irregular immigration and terrorism. It does not have any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, nor with the increase of the European Union and with other international obligations entered into by Italy. It is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u72	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u73	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1607, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u74	Mr President, this is an agreement aimed at increasing bilateral cooperation between the Armed Forces of the two States, with a view to strengthening their respective defensive capacities, but also to improving mutual understanding on security issues. The text identifies the scope and arrangements for implementing military and technical cooperation, with particular reference to the training of Congolese military personnel, the acquisition of equipment, health care and the exchange of strategic information, as well as the possibility of concluding further technical arrangements. It is made up of five articles and, as there are also no profiles of incompatibility with all EU and national legislation and international commitments, I propose that this House approve them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u75	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u76	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1385. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u77	Mr President, this ratification concerns a measure designed to eliminate double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax evasion and avoidance by means of a protocol. The draft law that we examine aims to update the current bilateral rules on direct taxation in economic and fiscal relations between the two countries and thus adapts their provisions to the latest international standards, in particular by taking the prevailing model of the convention drawn up within the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development; therefore, it aims to achieve a more effective action to combat international tax evasion. The agreement consists of 30 articles and a protocol and, once it enters into force - I would like to stress this - it will allow Italian companies to operate in the People's Republic of China under better conditions and in a competitive position than companies in other European countries. Moreover, it will allow Chinese investors in Italy to have more operational certainty. It is a draft law consisting of 4 articles and, with regard to economic charges, Article 3 assesses them in 13,353 million from 2021; it does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, EU law or other international obligations entered into by Italy. It is proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u78	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u79	Mr President, I also take advantage of this moment because the work is going through quite quickly, so we can take some time to reflect on the agreement that we are going to ratify. Why do I say that? This is apparently a very normal tax agreement between two countries, as the rapporteur said. On the other hand, we have ratified so many in this House over the years and already this morning. I have taken notes and, in fact, we have already ratified the same type of agreement with Colombia, Jamaica and Uruguay. They are all similar agreements, as the rapporteur said, based on a scheme. And, in general, there is no general discussion about this type of ratification. This morning we did not have the general debate and explanations of vote are also fast enough or at least are not extended in the way we are used to. However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, but - above all - ladies and gentlemen of the majority, this agreement seems to be similar to so many others. The bill, the only one I kept the title page of, is very important because it ratified an agreement between the Italian Republic and the People's Republic of China, made in Rome on 23 March 2019. I would like to read the title of the bill: Ratification and implementation of the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China to eliminate double taxation in matters of income taxes and to prevent tax evasions and avoidances, with Protocol, made in Rome on 23 March 2019. Let's remember this date: March 23, 2019. Why is this date important? For a very important fact: on 23 March 2019 the Italian Government signed the memorandum of understanding between the Italian Republic and the Chinese Republic. I now propose to the House that we change the name of this document and call it the Memorandum of Misunderstanding, since you have not understood it, since it has arrived in this House and you have not noticed it. The only institutional agreement is given in the number 4 of the 19 agreements envisaged: Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China to eliminate double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax evasion and avoidance. What's the point? The point is that this bill, which we are about to approve in order to ratify an agreement, is the only agreement of the so-called Silk Road which will have a parliamentary passage. In all, there are 19 institutional agreements and 10 agreements between trading partners; this is the only agreement, the only document, the only act that provides for a parliamentary passage. A few days ago, the Parent Company of the Movimento 5 Star Ferrara rightly contested its Government because it presented a report on the import-export of weapons that are not transparent and not usable, denouncing a sort of exauteration and impoverishment of our power as parliamentarians. I think this is happening right now. I would like to stress this point; I address you, Mr President, to the Government and also to the members of the majority and to my former colleagues. The silk route, which had been flagged as one of those agreements and moments that would lift the fate of the country, arrived here in the Chamber; but you did not notice it. It's interesting for me to understand why you didn't notice, and I can prove it to you. In the report drawn up by the rapporteur this morning, a few moments ago, neither the memorandum of understanding nor the silk route were mentioned in any way. Neither the memorandum of understanding nor the silk route have been mentioned in the Commission, either in the report or throughout the whole process of the measure. This seems to me very strange, since this is a moment that had been handed over to us as an epochal moment, a moment that saw agreements signed for 2.5 billion euros, which a few months ago seemed to resolve the fate of the country. Now they make a bit of a smile compared to the rain of billions that will come, from what you're telling us: 1,000 or 2,000 billion, as if they were really rough. The question I asked myself is why you didn't notice. There could be a lot of theories. Disattention? Surface? Inadequate? Ingenuity? I don't know. Maybe too hard to read four pages of chord. I don't know; but the fact remains that you didn't notice. However, I think that you are likely to be very embarrassed to mention the silk via project, for a fundamental reason, namely that this project is basically dead. You have not been able to carry it forward, develop it and complete it. It is news of a few days ago that the port of Genoa, also because of the problems of transport, will be abandoned (and it was fundamental part of the Agreement for the way of the silk). They are emerging from day to day critical of our relations with China: last I remember the very hard positions taken by the United Kingdom and France against project 5G and against Huawei. Daily news of criticism and obstacles to the entire project of the Silk Road, along the way, by the local populations, arrive. I don't know what the right theory is and why you didn't notice this and didn't use it for political and propaganda purposes, but the fact remains that you didn't notice it. This superficiality must be denounced, because in my opinion one of the problems of the majority consists precisely in being superficial in dealing with the issues. I therefore believe that the agreement in question should have been treated in an extremely different and more prudent way and that it should have been debated in a more appropriate way to the importance it is of, being - I repeat - the only Agreement forming part of the Silk Road which will come to the House. I would like to end by saying that I find it unjustified that the only agreement on the Silk Road - a project which, as we have said, is now dead - which comes to the House's attention is not being discussed, because the members of the majority and in particular of the Movimento 5 Stars did not notice it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u82	RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, we ask that the votes relating to draft law No 1385, ratifying and implementing the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China, in view of the sensitive and controversial matter, be carried out by simultaneous ballot by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u83	This is permitted by the Rules of Procedure, Senator Rauti. The general debate is closed. The rapporteur and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u86	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, I have asked to speak here on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group in order to justify our political abstention to ratify and implement the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China in order to eliminate double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax evasion and avoidance. As my fellow Members are well aware, this is a matter of trade policy, one of the few subjects left to the state. Until a few years ago there were essentially two subjects on which individual states could sign agreements with the European Union, however, of a commercial nature. One was the Treaty on double taxation and the other the Treaty on the protection of investment. However, with the last Treaty of the European Union, the protection of investment has become the exclusive competence of the Union. On the other hand, the Treaties on double taxation remain, which are, in fact, the responsibility of the Member States as tax authorities and are usually treaties which serve to make companies in the individual Member States competitive with the markets which open up, as the large market in the People's Republic of China has certainly been - and is still fairly so - the same. For these reasons we are usually in favour of this type of treaty; we recognize that the People's Republic of China is a very important trading partner for our country, it is not among the most important because there are others, such as the United States, Germany, France and many others with which we have a much more significant trade and industrial cooperation. Of course, however, he is an important partner and the more he can be in the coming years. Why then do we abstain instead of voting in favour, even though we agree with the Treaty on the substance of the matter? We do this because it was carried out within a series of agreements of a purely political nature, which changed the posture and framework of the international alliances of our country when the President of the People's Republic of China, Secretary General of the Communist Party of China and, consequently, head of all other Chinese powers, came to Italy and was welcomed as a triumphant by the then Count 1 Government; I refer to the framework of the so-called agreements on the Silk Road, which only Italy between the great European countries, the G7 and the world has suffered, submitting to the domain exercised by China through them. In that context those agreements and everything else appeared ambiguous, so much so that in the same majority over time the problem was understood: just read today's newspapers with reference to the turning point that the Democratic Party seems to impress the Government on the issue of Chinese technology in the 5G. We understand and understand that there is now an active repentance on the part of the majority, perhaps also with respect to the attitude to be taken towards the People's Republic of China. If possible, we want to make it clear that it is one thing to have regard, attention, respect and conclude trade agreements with an important trading partner such as China, another thing is to consider China as the United States or as the other European countries, because it remains today more than yesterday a systemic opponent of Italy, Europe and the West. He is a systemic opponent today more than yesterday because, from Xi's election to the general secretary of the Chinese Communist Party, and consequently to all the other positions he holds, the posture of the People's Republic of China has profoundly changed. While in the early 2000s, when China joined the World Trade Organization, China had a posture of opening up its markets to companies and, if you like, also to Western culture, since the rise of Xi changed its attitude, because he won the internal confrontation in the Chinese Communist Party on a political, strategic and programmatic line of imperialism. You are well aware that at that time there were two political lines: that of the internal left was theorized by Bo Xilai, formerly Minister of Trade, who thought to continue the teaching of Deng Xiaoping on the internal growth of the country in order to fill the gaps and internal poverty. This was the China of Deng Xiaoping, the one that opened up to the world, that of the first special economic zones of Shenzhen and then the others. That China, which was a great market for us too, has in the meantime changed and, from a market for European companies, has become a world industry and we, in turn, have become a market for their industry. Above all, however, it has changed because Xi has imposed a strategy not of internal growth, but of external growth at the military, political, technological, infrastructural and also economic level. This is also reflected in the change in the status of the Chinese Communist Party, where the Silk Road was included in the preamble as a way to world domination; soon afterwards the Chinese Constitution was changed and the Silk Road was included in it as a way to world domination. This is reflected both in the fact that China is rearmed with the construction of aircraft carriers, both in the fact that military naval bases have been built abroad along the Silk Road (as in Djibouti), and in the fact that it manifests an aggressive policy towards neighbors for the conquest of marine and terrestrial territorial spaces. And it is expressed, again, in its posture towards Taiwan, which has become aggressive, as well as in its internal posture towards minorities - which outlines the framework of a totalitarian and not only authoritarian state, which controls everything within and presupposes being able to control everything outside - as well as in the events of Hong Kong, where China has changed by overturning the international agreements of twenty-seven years ago that left Hong Kong, for a long period of fifty years, its prerogatives of civil, personal and economic freedoms, which China has trampled under the new legislation on national security. Do not understand this, that Xi's China is not Deng Xiaoping's China and that the change of posture - from internal growth that needed us to external growth in domination towards us - means for us, for Europe and for the West that the great challenge of the coming years will be between our culture of freedoms and their will to dominate the world, trampling those freedoms. [[Applause]] We must therefore clearly differentiate between China as a trading partner and China as a systemic opponent. And that is a duty. That is why I call for this House to express itself as soon as possible also on the motions that protect Hong Kong's freedoms and prerogatives, because Hong Kong today is like Berlin yesterday. We are all citizens of Hong Kong because, if China succeeds in trampling international agreements and suppressing all forms of freedom, if it does so in Hong Kong and we allow it, it means that tomorrow it will also do so in Rome and also in Europe and we cannot Let's have it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u89	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to Senator Urso for addressing an issue on which we must finally try to make clear to those who deal with foreign policy. In fact, if we do demagogy or electoral propaganda on the subject of the relationship with China, we will never get to the head of a problem that exists, that is, that of the geopolitical alliances of our country. First of all, please clear the field from this bill. What we are about to vote on is the result of an agreement signed between the previous Government, whose shareholders were League and 5 Stars, and it is an unexceptionable agreement, which cannot but be voted on, because it corresponds to national interests. I believe that Senator Urso himself, who has made an intelligently critical intervention from his point of view - I agree with him to a certain extent, on the contrary, in some respects I do not agree with him - has cleared the field from the subject which is actually on the table today at the time when he said that he did not make any comments on this agreement. Therefore, given that the issue is not the agreement, the question is the relationship with China. I support a government that has as its Minister for Foreign Affairs an exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars. However, if I now examine the traditional foreign policy of the 5 Stars, I have to tell you sincerely that I have not a dissent, but a hundred, starting from the positions that the 5 Stars have expressed in the past on Venezuela or even China. However, I cannot do a journalistic collection about the past here. I must stand by the acts of government policy that the Foreign Minister has carried out over the last few months. If I stand by and am in good faith, I can never think that the Minister of Foreign Affairs - because he did not - has equalized China to the geopolitical alliances of Italy, that is to say to the United States of America. I understand that Senator Urso rhetorically resorted to this to explain that they are not the same thing, but we cannot make a trial of intentions. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has expressly said in many forums, starting with public interventions in the newspapers, that Italy's position is to have a strong friendship with Russia and China, but that Italy's strategic and geopolitical alliances cannot be confused with relations with Russia and China. Parliament agrees with this. Then, if we're gonna split up to fake polemics, we can split up. We all want to be in good relations with China and Russia: they are different partners. What is one belt, one road, the Silk Road? Probably a friendly work on the world that is doing China and has strategic interests that can be conflicting with those of Europe or those of Italy, but in some ways there are also collaborations to develop. The subject here is sensitive, for example from the point of view of technology, because it concerns the relationship between the West and China, between Europe and China. We do not need any further escapes, but we need European consultation, because it is clear that we cannot give the keys to our technology in the hands of the Chinese. We cannot give information to the Chinese government: this would be absolutely self-harmful and in fact the European governments are questioning many issues that are open. However, colleagues, in announcing on behalf of the Autonomous Group the vote in favour of the Agreement between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the People's Republic of China, we must stand by the facts: this Government and this Minister for Foreign Affairs have confirmed the traditional policy of Italy and have not confused the relationship between the historical allies and China or Russia. Do you remember the First Republic and the ideological clash before the fall of the Berlin Wall? We with Russia (then China was a defiled power) have always maintained relations. Even the great Italian companies like FIAT did Togliattigrad and made factories in Russia. Yet there was the Cold War, yet we and they were cut off by the presence of a Berlin Wall and the Iron Curtain, but Italy remained consistently in the Atlantic Alliance, later installed the Euro missiles with Craxi and Cossiga, but it always tried to develop a policy of friendship with Russia. Today this must also apply to China and it must apply to Europe, because the relationship with sensitive choices of use of Chinese technology must be concerted at European level, because it would not make sense for an Italian no or yes other than the French or German one, because we are an important critical mass if we are together. If we proceed in scattered order we are irrelevant ants in an age of globalization. I believe that it is right for Parliament to express itself on this issue, because this is not an agreement as much as many others that we can ratify quickly, but it is also right that we put the points on the i and we avoid the emergence of controversy on issues that, in my opinion, see us much more united than it seems. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u92	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, as has been said, this agreement is appropriate. We cannot leave our companies, the many Italian companies that carry out economic activities with China, in a situation where they can be at a competitive disadvantage compared to other companies in other European countries or in any case Western, which instead have the agreement against double taxation. However, we know that relations with China are not symmetrical, but asymmetrical, not only because of the size of the Chinese manufacturing, but also because of a number of elements, including China's lack of respect for human rights in its territories, which obviously brings a great competitive advantage for the Chinese company: from the cost point of view, to apply prices on which international competition then develops, it is much better to have workers without rights, neither those who are purely working, nor those who are civil and free; thus the situation is handled more easily. We have no guarantees from China about copying and infringement of intellectual property. We have no formal guarantees, but unfortunately we have the factual certainty that these things happen. How many times has it happened to Italian companies to make agreements with a Chinese company - which is inevitably linked to the Chinese Communist Party - and then find their artifact copied exactly the same and proposed at a much lower price? There can be no true symmetry if there is no clear position on the Chinese question on the part of the Italian Government. We certainly cannot think of not having trade with China; that would be unthinkable. But the government must take a clear position in international politics. Our companies, even our individual citizens who go to China, will never have the coverage that the Chinese Government gives to their companies: they can do what they want, their companies can sell below cost, because they have such a coverage that they can do it very well at strategic level. Then, once they have failed Italian or non-Chinese competitors, they can bring prices back to previous market levels, perhaps even more. We will never be able to ask our Government for this; but to have a clear position with respect to China, that is. We need to have a clear lineup. President Casini has rightly said that the Government has made it clear that our friendship with China does not prejudice and does not change our position, the deployment of Italy in the Atlantic sense in the democratic countries. Yes, but words are not enough, either in one sense or the other. Last week, at the UN Human Rights Council there was a very important vote on the issue of human rights, with reference to the Hong Kong Security Act, which practically destroys the treaties signed at the time, including by the Chinese Government, for the transition from the old situation (when Hong Kong was under the sovereignty of the United Kingdom) to the sovereignty of the People's Republic of China. But that treaty provided for a long period in which the two systems would actually be separated and a number of rights would still be guaranteed to the citizens of Hong Kong. The new security law in Hong Kong has completely destroyed that treaty, destroyed the freedom of the citizens of that city and endangers any foreigner who goes to Hong Kong, who risks being arrested because, maybe not there, maybe in his country, maybe in Italy, he has expressed criticism of the Chinese Government, against his fierce repression against demonstrations in favour of freedom that have been in Hong Kong. The Australian government has advised its citizens not to travel to China, because there is a risk of arbitrary arrest on the basis of that law and on the basis of incidents that have already occurred. Then it is right that the government should cultivate economic relations with China, but it must take a clear stand. Last week, when it came to voting at the United Nations, two motions had been tabled: the first was promoted by Cuba - by chance - in strong support of the Beijing Government, and the second promoted by the United Kingdom which denounced the violation of human rights by the Hong Kong police closely supported by the Chinese Government. Well, it is on an occasion like the one that shows which side you stand on and shows whether you are really sided with the Western bloc, with the countries for freedom, or with the Chinese Government. Well, on that occasion Italy abstained. He did not vote against Cuba's proposal of full support for the Chinese Government. On the other hand, they are two countries with the same system, unlike China and Hong Kong. Cuba and China are both communist dictatorships, but we do not vote against, not to disturb the Cuban lords and especially because we do not want to disturb the Chinese lords. When the United Kingdom proposed its motion to denounce the violation of human rights, it abstained. Hundreds of young people have been arrested, beaten up and some even killed by the police. Everyone remembers what happened in Minneapolis, but apparently no one cares what happens in Hong Kong. Among the police who crush the freedom of the Hong Kong demonstrators, who arrest hundreds of people just because they manifest their ideas, and those who arrest them, they abstain. [[Applause]] That doesn't mean we're friends with China, but we're in the Western bloc. This means that we are, at best, ambiguous. And when between the oppressed and the oppressor you don't stand up, you're actually with the oppressor, you tell him to move on because the oppressed can't defend himself. We ask the Italian Government to take a clear position which does not mean intervening to calm down. The technique by which one pretends to be friends of one country and another, which would aim to maintain friendship with both, risks making us both enemies. A clear position is needed, just as a clear position on Venezuela would be needed. These are the things that say which side you're on. [[Applause]] It is not enough to say that we are always on the side of the Atlantic Pact. If Italy was the only country that prevented the European Union from taking a clear position on Venezuela, that is to take a stand. [[Applause]] It is not enough to say that we are so close to the Atlantic Alliance. We express our full support for our companies and we would like the Government to express it as well. We abstain to ask the government to assume a clear and non-ambiguous position and therefore, in fact, in favour of China, who wants to transfer its system of systematic control, police, neurotic of the lives of individual citizens, putting completely under control all their moves and all their expenses (a model that, apparently, not only likes in China). We, on the other hand, are on the other hand: we are for freedom, we are for democracy, we are for the protection of individual rights [[Applause]] And we are also for the protection of the rights of our companies not to be copied their products and not to suffer unfair competition made by those who neglect and ignore the rights of workers and citizens in general. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u95	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the process of an explanation of vote. I welcome the fact that this morning, which seemed to have to flow quietly around lunchtime, has instead become a little animated and has become - as it were - more effervescent. Many things have been said and basically they are all acceptable. At this stage of explanation of vote, however, I would return to the original point, namely to try to understand why we are debating the draft law in a somewhat contrasting way with what was the custom of this House. There are two aspects, as always one of method and one of merit. Senator Casini, whom I was fortunate to have as President of the Commission in the last parliamentary term, made some important comments and I would like to make a few points. Making foreign policy, in my very modest experience, also means being able to place oneself on the international scene always and in any case in the most appropriate way. It is no coincidence that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is - in my humble opinion - one of the Ministries who prepares the dossiers and the dossiers in an extremely rigorous and appropriate way, in order to allow our delegations, our representatives and our Ministers to move easily within an extremely complex, technical and difficult scenario to manage. I say this because, in fact, very often - as we have noted in the past - our attitude in foreign policy has been extremely contradictory and above all - as far as I am concerned - it has not been consistent with the function of governing the seventh power of the world which is firmly part of an Atlantic Alliance. I also add another element, always of method. I have spoken in general debate and explanations of vote have been followed by the Groups - others will follow and it will be interesting to hear them - but here there is a great absentee, and I say this to you, Mr President, but indirectly to all my colleagues, including those who have spoken, namely Senators Casini, Malan and Urso. I repeat that there is a great absentee here: today's was the only time we had in the Senate to be able to discuss the Silk Road - this act concerns the Silk Road - and the great absentee is the Italian Government, which not only did not show up with the Minister who signed those agreements and who could tell us here what state the Silk Road is in, but his representatives in the Chamber this morning did not even deserve a little reply and did not tell us if the Silk Road is dead, is dying, is doing well or is recovering. They could explain something to us, but they didn't. In my opinion, this is a great sign of superficiality and a disconcerting attitude towards a fundamental subject such as foreign policy. By the way, we are discovering in these hours - we are doing so, for example, in the course of an assigned affair - how much praised multilateralism is at its sunset. What we are noticing during the hearings we are holding in the Foreign Commission is that there are very strong oppositions between sides that go against everything that has been worked for, namely the famous multilateralism. We are witnessing strong oppositions (Israel-Palestinian, Arab-Western world), and this is emerging in all its contradictions precisely in our Commission. The first question that we must therefore ask ourselves is why the government comes to this House and does not tell us anything about an agreement that is so important and fundamental for our future. I believe that this is an extremely serious attitude. We now come to the specific explanation of vote on the Agreement. It has been said that this is a commercial and essentially fiscal agreement, and the Lega-Salvini Premier Group is obviously in favour of all the companies that are operating in all the international territories, and therefore also in the Chinese one, which for us - it is obvious - is a large market. But next to that there are all the arguments made so far. This agreement had to be framed for what is, that is, a great scenario, a great proposal that - contrary to what has been said - has not been well managed at the level of foreign policy during the agreements of 23 March 2019, because of the strong imbalance not dealt with in a suitable way at political level by our then Minister for Foreign Affairs and its entourage, but I feel like denouncing in foreign policy and, of course, a well-known reason of state has repeatedly reported in the right tracks. We are in favour of simplification and the possibility for our companies, our entrepreneurs and citizens working abroad to benefit from it in any scenario. And, therefore, we would obviously be in favour of this Agreement, as we have been and would be in a normal situation. However, we have understood that the scenario is not normal and we are therefore opposed to the superficiality with which we are dealing with an extremely sensitive subject such as foreign policy. For these reasons, I declare the Lega-Salvini Premier Group abstaining. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u98	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the agreement we are talking about - as we know - aims to regulate the aspects of direct taxation relating to economic and financial relations between Italy and the great trading partner, China. It aims, in particular, to eliminate double taxation of income and to balance the distribution of taxable matter between the two countries. It updates and adapts these aspects to the latest international standards compared to the previous 1986 Agreement and includes mandatory requirements arising from the recommendations of the OECD-G20 project on combating circumvention and artificial shift of tax bases. It also welcomes the provisions contained in the UN model, which will, therefore, complement the previous legal framework in the various broad areas of taxation because we are talking about this. It is useless to open up other scenarios that have little to do with this well-technical topic. Finally, this criteria are clear, precise and balanced. This is a great advantage for those who have read this Agreement. To sum up, I would like to point out - unlike what has been said in general by some - that this overall framework for updating tax legislation will allow important results. First, Italian companies will be able to operate in China under better conditions and in a competitive position than companies in other European countries that have concluded a tax agreement with China. Thanks to this Agreement, moreover, there will be greater certainty for Chinese investors in Italy, but above all greater certainty for Italian investors in China. Another important objective not to be underestimated is that the Agreement also protects general interests within the competence of the Italian financial administration. These are the objectives and advantages that our country can achieve with this Agreement and therefore, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I declare the vote in favour of this Tax Agreement between Italy and China. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u99	I remember that Senators Garavini and Alfieri have already declared their vote in favour. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u100	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1704, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u101	Mr President, as you have already said, this is about the ratification of an Agreement on the promotion and protection of investments concluded by Italy in particular with a country in the former Soviet area, which aims to create a legal framework for encouraging and giving guarantees to investors in the two countries. Since the Agreement, like the others, does not present any incompatibility, I propose that the House vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u102	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u103	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1403. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u104	Mr President, this House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the Agreement on Air Transport Services signed in November 2015 by Italy and Ecuador, which is in line with EU legislation in this area and is part of a context previously not regulated by agreements between the aviation authorities of the two countries. The Agreement aims to regulate bilateral air services, including in order to help strengthen existing links between the two economies, as well as to bring benefits to air carriers, airports, passengers, shippers and the tourism industry. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u105	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u106	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1703, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Pacific, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u107	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Deputies, which ratified the three treaties signed by Italy and Colombia in December 2016, respectively on extradition, judicial assistance in criminal matters and the transfer of convicted persons. The Treaties which are the subject of this ratification form part of the instruments aimed at intensifying and regulating Italy's cooperation relations with non-EU countries in detail, with the aim of improving international judicial cooperation and of making the fight against crime more effective in the criminal justice field. Therefore, the draft law is called for by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u108	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u109	Mr President, I would like to point out to you, as to the members of the Government - I note the concerns of Mr Lucidi - with all due respect for the Undersecretary, the absence of the competent Minister on such a significant issue as that of the Treaties. Mr President, I hear a crack on my right and I don't know what it is.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u110	Not above average, Senator Mallegni. Don't feel so important. Please continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u111	[[Applause]] MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). I was saying that I am sorry that on this important occasion, when the majority also had the concern that they did not have enough numbers to approve some of the Treaties, between yesterday and today, and therefore objectively could make use of the consensus and votes of the opposition, the Government sent a Undersecretary - I respect, greet and thank him for being here with us - while of course the Minister is absent, as well as the Minister of Justice is absent. In 2018 this Assembly, to my great satisfaction, approved a treaty of reciprocity, signed by the Government a few years earlier, with regard to extradition, also for tax crimes such as evasion, between Italy and the United Arab Emirates. Now, I am not reminding the House of those who fled to the United Arab Emirates: illustrious brothers-in-laws of illustrious representatives of this wonderful nation, who have occupied high ranks of the institutions of this country. But it is not just this or these; even entrepreneurs who have cheated other entrepreneurs, who have left thousands of families on the pavement, who have escaped and are sitting comfortably in the sun of the United Arab Emirates. I wonder, and I would like to ask the Foreign and Justice Ministers, what do we approve of doing these treaties in this House? There was a little while ago a debate on China, albeit a modest one, on objectively important issues. But what are we talking about doing these issues within the House and the Senate? Why do we sign treaties? For the government to commit itself. Why even today, with the approval of the documents under consideration, we tell the Head of State to sign international treaties, if then the various brothers-in-laws, friends and cousins take comfortably the sun during the winter period and take advantage of the air conditioning during the summer period, careless of what they left in the Homeland? The Treaties in question concern in particular the issue of tax evasion, with criminal value; for offences of more than one year imprisonment, the State that issued the sentence has a duty to require those gentlemen to return home to serve the sentence. I formally ask, through the Undersecretary, also taking advantage of the presence of the Deputy Minister of Health, who is a good person, and through the Presidency, to know why I meet permanently a number of subjects - I have an activity and as you can see I do not run away, but I regularly return to Italy - always at the restaurant. Why do these gentlemen live comfortably there, even though they have been sentenced to three, nine or eleven years of age? How come we don't ask them to go back to Italy to serve the sentence? The gentlemen who stay out of here and are called Italian citizens then may think that we do here the jokes, more than outside. If we have to spend the days...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u112	Mr Mallegni, the Rules of Procedure are rarely infringed on the nature of the subject under discussion, as you are doing. I would ask you to come back to this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u113	But how, Mr. President? I'm not violating it. We are talking about a treaty of criminal and fiscal reciprocity.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u114	Colombia.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u115	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). I'm paralleling you with a state with which we approved a treaty in 2018 and you tell me it has nothing to do with it? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Little. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Oh, yeah? But how little? It's got to do with it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, keep going. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). I don't wish I'd bothered you for treating Mr. Tulliani. I hope I didn't hurt your morning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please don't be silly. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Exactly, since you interrupt me, I hadn't mentioned names before, but now I'm doing them. And yet there are other personalities. So, I'm telling the truth. I hope that the government will commit itself - I make a joke to the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars - so that the words "honesty, honesty, honesty" will be applied, which I share 100%, even when one is in the government and some brother-in-law, some criminals, will return to jail and throw the key away. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u116	Senator Mallegni, I remind you that if you have any questions to ask, you can do so with the questioning tool and not through requests here addressed to the representative of the government or to me. The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in his reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u117	Mr President, I would just like to clarify a few points. It is an extradition treaty: I believe that, when dealing with issues of the opinion, it is good to stick to the subject we are dealing with very precisely. I would also like to say that the Agreement before us, of course, aims to strengthen bilateral criminal judicial cooperation and to make the fight against transnational crime more effective, precisely by using the instruments available today. I would also like to say, very briefly, that, with regard to the transfer of sentenced persons, the Agreement is precisely intended to allow citizens detained in Italy and Colombia to serve the sentence in their country of origin. To give you some concrete data, I can tell you that the number of Colombian citizens detained in Italy is 107 and is about eight times higher than that of the Italians detained in Colombia, which to date are 13. Therefore, the ratification of the three Treaties is an important part of bilateral cooperation, in a general framework of excellent relations between Italy and Colombia, which of course was also witnessed by the visit, in April 2019, of President Casellati. Therefore, in keeping with the facts, this is clearly an excellent agreement.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u118	We shall now proceed to the examination of the articles in the text approved by the House of Deputies. I put to the vote Rule 1. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 2. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 3. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 4. It's approved. I put to the vote Rule 5. It's approved. I remember that Senators Garavini, Alfieri, Aimi, Lucidi and Airola have already declared their vote in favour. I put the bill to the vote, as a whole. It's approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u119	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1588. The rapporteur, Senator Marilotti, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u120	Mr President, the two bilateral agreements are part of the process of intensifying and regulating judicial cooperation with certain countries outside the European Union, which Italy has been pursuing for years, also because of the need to make more effective the fight against organised crime. The first of the two Treaties is aimed at improving cooperation between the two countries in the field of extradition, committing the parties to surrender each other and on demand persons wanted who are in their own territory, in order to pursue criminal proceedings, or in order to allow the execution of a final sentence. The second Treaty, the Treaty on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, aims to regulate bilateral criminal judicial cooperation. The adoption of this rule was imposed by the progressive extension of relations between the two countries and the previous absence of bilateral treaties in this area. The draft law ratifying the two Treaties consists of five articles. The total economic costs resulting from this measure are valued at EUR 125,505 per year. The two Treaties in question do not present any profiles of incompatibility with existing national legislation, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed that the bill be approved for our examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u121	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u122	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1087. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u123	Mr President, the measure we are considering concerns the ratification and enforcement of not an agreement, but an exchange of notes which aims to extend indefinitely an Agreement made in 1997 with the Republic of Northern Macedonia, which worked in defence cooperation in a strategic area for us, such as that of the Balkans. It has no significant costs, being 1,600 euros in one year and 840 euros in the other, and therefore alternating. There are no problems of respect for international obligations and national legislation. For these reasons it is proposed that the House approve it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u124	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u125	The next item is the debate on the bill No 1702, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u126	Mr President, this is a ratification of a 2003 protocol, which already entered into force in 2009. From the point of view of the European regulation we basically had already transposed all the effects through Community legislation; it is only a question of aligning this, which is a protocol made within the United Nations, with the work already done by us within Community law on the registers on emissions of harmful substances into air and water. It is, therefore, a formal step which also aligns us with the rules laid down in the United Nations Conventions. For this reason, since there is no incompatibility with Italian legislation, with international obligations and, even more so, with Community legislation, it is proposed to the Assembly to approve them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u127	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u128	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1510, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u129	Mr President, this is the ratification of a convention made within the Council of Europe, one of the classic conventions made in that environment, in order in fact to harmonise the regulations of the individual European States. It was also done with representatives of the International Football Federation (FIFA), the European Union of European Football Federations (UEFA), professional associations, together with Interpol and the European Union to facilitate access to sports events in stadiums in an orderly manner, promoting an integrated and shared strategy and approach between public and private players involved in the organisation of sporting events. The bill of ratification consists of five articles; the total economic burden is 27,000 euros from 2019. Here again there are no problems from the point of view of the legal compatibility both with international obligations and with national legislation, therefore it is proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u130	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u131	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1700, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Alfieri, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u132	Mr President, this is the ratification of an important agreement made by the previous Government in an area as important and strategic for us as Ethiopia, in support and in cooperation with Prime Minister Abiy, who has opened a new phase of cooperation in the Horn of Africa. I would remind you that Ethiopia is certainly one of the African states that contributes most to peacekeeping, peacekeeping, peacekeeping operations on the African continent and its contribution is one of the largest in the world, with almost 7,000 soldiers, mainly in Darfur, South Sudan, but also in Mali. From this point of view, cooperation between the two countries is certainly strategic and important, with a classic cooperation agreement in the field of defence for cooperation between the armed forces and between defence industries. There is no incompatibility with international obligations and with Italian legislation and it is therefore proposed to the Assembly to approve them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u133	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u134	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1705, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Maiorino, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u135	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, already approved by the House of Members, ratifying the Convention between Italy and Uruguay in order to eliminate double taxation on income taxes and to prevent tax evasion and avoidance, with the Protocol signed in March 2019. This Convention, within the framework of the more general extension of the networks of Conventions concluded by Italy, introduces legal conditions for the elimination of double taxation on income and for the realization of a balanced distribution of the taxable matter between the two Contracting States. The text, which complies with the most recent standards of the OECD model, as well as those resulting from the recommendations of the OECD/G20 project on combating circumvention and artificial shift of tax bases, consists of thirty articles and a Protocol. The bill of ratification consists of four articles. The reduced revenue resulting from the implementation of the measure shall be assessed, from Article 3, in EUR 67,000 per year from 2021. The agreement does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with the European Union's legal order and with the other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, it is therefore proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u136	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u137	The next item is the resolution on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic in a conflict of attribution. By appeal lodged on 19 December 2019, the Court of Appeal of Brescia raised a conflict of attribution between the powers of the State vis-à-vis the Senate of the Republic in respect of the resolution by which the Assembly, at its meeting of 10 January 2017, declared the indisputability, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 68 of the Constitution, of the opinions given by Mr Gabriele Albertini in the context of a criminal proceeding pending before the same court of appeal of Brescia. The application was declared admissible by the Constitutional Court by order of 7 April 2020 No 82, filed at the Registry on 24 April. This order was notified to the Senate on 16 June 2020. At its meeting on 24 June 2020, the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities issued a majority opinion in favour of the constitution of the Senate before the Constitutional Court in order to resist the above-mentioned conflict of attribution (Doc. IV-c, No 4). He asked the deputy president of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, Senator Cucca, to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u138	Mr President, I will try to be brief and ask the Presidency to authorise the submission of the report to be annexed to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u139	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u140	CUCCA (IV-PSI). It is a bit complicated: here we talk about the conflict of attribution that was raised by the Court of Appeal of Brescia against the Senate of the Republic following a resolution of the Senate, adopted in the last legislature, on 10 January 2017. Document IV-c No. 4 was approved by this resolution. The appeal was brought in the context of the appeal judgment that is brought by the civil party, Dr Alfredo Robledo, against the judgment of the ordinary court of Brescia of 3 February 2017, which had acquitted Senator Gabriele Albertini from two distinct crimes of slander. The senator would have accused Dr. Robledo of various crimes, including the suppression, destruction and concealment of public acts and of office abuse, depositing a memory on 22 October 2012 during the preliminary investigations of criminal proceedings n. 3856 of 2010 before the Milan court, in which the senator was heard as a witness. In addition, Senator Albertini would always accuse the magistrate of crimes including office abuse, omissions, private violence and obstruction of justice. In truth, this matter had occupied this House in the last parliamentary term several times and, again, it had previously occupied the Council of immunity and parliamentary elections with alternate events that I am not here to report for short time, because in fact the story was born when Senator Albertini was MEP. There were a number of judgments following a civil proceeding brought by Dr Robledo against Senator Albertini during the period when he was MEP for compensation for damages following an alleged defamation and subsequently, with a series of statements of mutual incompetence between the European Parliament and the Senate of the Republic, because of the dates on which these events had developed. After a series of unfavourable decisions, criminal proceedings had taken place; following that procedure and, I insist, after alternating events in the framework of the Council of Immunity and the Senate elections, there had been a declaration, in the context of criminal proceedings, that Senator Albertini's work was indispensable, which on several occasions had demonstrated absolutely exhaustively, with numerous acts of inspection union, that he had dealt with intra-moenia. Therefore, the Assembly had proposed to the Assembly that the views expressed by Senator Albertini should be declared unassailable, and so the Assembly had pronounced itself. This is the story, in a very succinct way, of the events that have seen the Senate engaged for what we are dealing with today, because following that decision, precisely, the Court of Appeal of Brescia challenged the measure before the Constitutional Court. Today we must decide whether to entrust the defence of the Senate to the Constitutional Court. Following the practice we have always followed (we have also dealt with another case recently in this House), I believe we have a duty to defend the prerogatives of the Senate and the decisions taken by the Senate. Therefore, the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided to propose to the Assembly that the Senate be defended before the Constitutional Court, and in this sense we now present ourselves to the Assembly's judgment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u141	One speaker per group may speak on the conclusions of the Junta for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u142	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u144	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has already explained the terms of the matter. The appeal was brought in the context of the court of appeal brought by the civil party, the magistrate Dr Alfredo Robledo, against the judgment of the court of Brescia of 3 February 2017, which had acquitted Senator Gabriele Albertini from two different offences of aggravated slander. The first of the slanderous conduct attributed to Albertini, committed in Milan on 22 October 2012, would consist in falsely accusing the magistrate Alfredo Robledo of a series of crimes during the preliminary investigations carried out against him. The second crime of slander was committed through an exhibit, again signed by Senator Albertini, addressed on 22 October 2012 to the Minister of Justice as the holder of disciplinary action. In the statement, the exponent would have accused Dr. Robledo of a series of crimes, always during the course of investigations, but this time in the context of proceedings against subjects other than the exponent. The reasons for the conflict of attribution consist, according to the Court of Appeal of Brescia, in the fact that actually Gabriele Albertini, at the time of the events, i.e. on 22 October 2012, did not still hold the position of senator, having assumed that position in March 2013, and then in the alleged lack of the functional connection of the opinions expressed by Albertini with the parliamentary activity, waiting that these statements concern criminal proceedings, in relation to which there seems to be no connection with the legislative activity. As already stated, the Court of Appeal of Brescia has therefore considered it necessary to promote the conflict of attribution between the powers of the State, with regard to the remembered resolution of the Senate of the Republic of insindacability of the opinions expressed by Senator Albertini, pursuant to article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution. Of course, this is not the place to take up the merits of the questions raised, but at this stage only the legitimacy of the Senate of the Republic to be party to this conflict, as the body competent to declare, definitively, its will in relation to the application of Article 68, first paragraph, of the Constitution, without prejudice to the question of the competence of the Senate itself to decide on the specific declarations that gave rise to the conflict, taking into account that when these declarations were made Albertini was not yet senator. Therefore, it is repented that the Senate should be represented before the Constitutional Court in respect of its prerogatives and therefore, on behalf of the Free and Equal Group, I announce the vote in favour of the constitution in court of the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u145	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u147	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, I shall confine myself to a few words just to make my fellow Members aware. In this, as in another case on which we have recently voted, it is a question of whether the Senate should be in court to defend a decision that has been taken by majority in this House. My and my group's understanding is that, generally speaking, decisions taken in this House must always be defended, leaving a margin of exceptionalness for individual specific cases. In this case, we believe that the decision can and must be defended before the Constitutional Court. Moreover, I merely observe - since both Senator Cucca and Mr Grasso have already outlined the terms of the matter - that the complexity of the matter had led the Junta to express itself also on the nature of the relationship between the function of European parliamentarians and the role of Italian parliamentarians, identifying, in this case, a contiguity and using a link, pursuant to Article 81 of the penal code, that allowed the Senate to decide and to be considered competent in this specific case, considering that there is still the indisputability also for a series of activities and conducts exercised by Senator Albertini when, precisely, he was senator. For all these reasons, I announce that the Democratic Party will vote in favour of this resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u148	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u149	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u150	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are still talking about a complicated and very complex issue which had long been concerned with the work of the Junta and this House during the previous parliamentary term, since the proceedings to be discussed were different: this was a civil procedure and a criminal procedure and not only that. In fact, the question initially arises from a statement sent on 22 October 2012 by Senator Albertini to the Minister of Justice. However, it is not only that but the whole judicial affair between the senator - who was the European Parliamentarian and even the first mayor of Milan - and prosecutor Alfredo Robledo. It is a very complex affair on which, of course, we are not called upon to express ourselves only on the subject of interest of the Junta and this House. It goes without saying, however, that the report drawn up by Senator Filippin during the previous parliamentary term had clearly expressed the position of both the Junta and the Assembly as regards the unassailability of the views expressed by Senator Albertini. It wasn't just the exposition presented to the Minister of Justice, which was just a chapter in a long sequence of acts and reactions that saw the magistrate and senator confront each other, in a judicial relationship that had quite harsh facets. However, let us remember that Senator Albertini had also presented a statement to the Supreme Council of the judiciary in 2013 and that in 2014 he had submitted a question to the Minister of Justice to whom he had also received answers. In addition, the senator had also carried out a series of acts typical of the parliamentary mandate, as well as 38, as was mentioned in that report. Therefore, at the time, the rapporteur's decisions were based on the fact that there was not only this initial statement to the Minister of Justice, but a set of conducts which had not only specified the fact itself and which continued, even when Senator Albertini had taken on the role of senator and not only of MEP. We have also long debated, at the time, a correct interpretation of Protocol No 7 for the privileges and immunities of the European Union, which requires Members of the European Parliament to benefit on national territory from the immunity granted to Members of the European Parliament of their country, rules which have a certain complexity in their interpretations. The Council has extended its scope to examine and discuss these issues in the previous parliamentary term and also the House, and decisions have been taken which have given rise to this appeal today, which has raised a conflict of attribution. In this sense, regardless of the considerations on the substance of the matter, which are not the responsibility of this House, we of the Lega-Salvini Premier believe that we support and reaffirm the reasons underlying the decisions taken. Therefore, we also emphasise our vote in favour of the Senate being set up in the judgment that was raised for the conflict of attribution. This is not to defend the individual senator and individual, but to defend the decisions taken here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u151	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u152	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u153	GALLICCHIO (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today the Assembly is called upon to rule, as we know, on the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic following the conflict of powers between the powers of the State raised by the Court of Appeal of Brescia, in relation to the resolution of 10 January 2017 by which the declaration made by Senator Gabriele Albertini in the context of criminal proceedings for aggravated calumny was declared unassailable. At first glance, as has already been said in this House, it could be considered appropriate for the Senate to be represented in any case before the Constitutional Court, regardless of the case to be dealt with. One might think: why should the institution not be present there? The question changes, however, if we examine in detail the case that is the subject of our work today. We have to ask ourselves: does it simply mean to be in a court of law or does it mean to present the memory of a constitution, to resist, to support a thesis and to defend the reasons opposed to those of the judge who was brought before the Constitutional Court? Meaning, then, changes. In fact, to be constituted in this judgment means to defend a resolution that extends the perimeter of parliamentary insindacability for the opinions expressed extra-moenia. I would say that it is a resolution that invents the perimeter of parliamentary indistinguishability, because this is a resolution that is based on a hypothesis of crime, the aggravated slander towards a magistrate, committed when Albertini lacked the status of senator, who at the time of the events (2012) held the position of European parliamentarians and not that of senator. So let's talk about a fact that happened the year before he was elected senator (2013). Therefore, if the commission of the crime dates back to a period prior to its election as a senator, how can its subsequent parliamentary activities constitute the prerogative of the unindicability under Article 68 of the Constitution? This is an important point to consider for the purposes of our decision, especially when we consider other aspects closely related to this. In fact, three times the European Parliament denied Albertini's indisputability on this matter because of the absence of the functional link between political activity and what he declared extra-moenia. Moreover, even the Senate, in 2014, on the same issue regarding civil judgment, declared itself incompetent, precisely because Albertini, at the time of the event, was not senator. Then came the criminal trial and Senator Albertini, after applying for immunity from the European Parliament and having received a dry no, advanced the same petition to the Senate, entirely replacing the previous one, asking that it be recognized by us the unindicability for the opinions expressed, in accordance with Article 68. The Senate, finally, after a troubled phase in Junta, which also led to the change of the rapporteur (who refused to continue), ended up recognizing the functional link and the existence of the insinability with an embarrassing motivation, since it even came to support - I quote the rapporteur's sentence - the other thirty-eight statements by Albertini, all made in the context of the typical acts under Law 140 n. 2003, parts of a whole that in substance and procedurally would fall into that "medesimezza of the criminal design" that Article 81 of the penal code identifies as a decisive element to speak of a continuous crime. The rapporteur then comes to grant the prerogative under Article 68 of the Constitution on the basis of the continuity of Albertini's conduct between when he was not senator and when he became senator, recalling even the continued crime. Among other things, this bizarre decision was then made by the Junta after some statements made by Senator Albertini in the press, according to which - I simply tell what was then highlighted in the subsequent debate - the indisputability was the political price to pay for the support of the Government, which, otherwise, would not have had the numbers necessary to be supported here in the Senate. This was the interpretation that was given to those statements: an exchange. On this, those who vote yes will not want to make up for the mistake made at the time. In concluding my speech and regardless of the interpretations then given to the press, I can strongly state that, throughout this history, an improper and incorrect application of Article 68 (1) of the Constitution has been allowed, which, as is known, has been introduced to protect the work of the Member in the exercise of his duties and certainly not to neutralize possible crimes committed in the past. In so doing, a very dangerous precedent is created, such as setting up a shield that allows us to commit certain crimes, continue them and repeat them as long as you then get elected in Parliament. It seems quite clear to me that there is no Senate statement here to defend; if anything, the opposite is necessary. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group Movimento 5 Stars, therefore, announces that the vote against the Senate is in court to support such a sudden decision.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u154	I put to the vote the conclusions of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities in favour of the constitution in court of the Senate of the Republic before the Constitutional Court in order to resist in the aforementioned conflict of attribution raised by the Court of Appeal of Brescia. They're approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. They're approved. The Presidency therefore intends to give a mandate, for the constitution and representation in court of the Senate, to one or more lawyers of the free forum. In view of the progress of the work and the orientation shared by the Leaders, I suspend the sitting until 16.30. (The sitting was suspended at 12.40 p.m. and resumed at 16.31 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u155	The next item is the debate on the draft law no. 1250, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies in a text resulting from the unification of the draft own-initiative law of Lazzarini and others; Pini and others, 184 and 302. The rapporteur, Senator Fregolent, requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u156	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measures we are examining are aimed at recognising chronic primary headache as a social disease. I want to make it clear right away that we are not talking about a simple passing headache. The chronic headache, so defined because it is characterized by continuity over time and by the fact that it does not identify the manifest causes, is a real disabling disease and is much more widespread than you can imagine. It may severely limit or compromise the capacity to meet family and work commitments and entail significant economic and social costs. To have some reference data, it is enough to know that, according to the World Health Organization, chronic headache is the top of the disabling diseases and is unfortunately among the top ten causes of disability in the world. The headache in its primary forms, i.e. migraine, tension headache and cluster headache, affects on average about 12 percent of the individuals, manifesting mainly during the most productive period of the person's life. It is therefore clear that the costs of the disease are both direct and indirect, being the first to relate to the costs related to diagnosis and treatment and the second, of course, to the incidence of absences at work and the consequent reduced productivity. I give a figure: in Italy, for example, annual health expenditure, which for each episodic migraine amounts to about 800 euros, rises to more than 2,600 euros (more than triple) for each patient with chronic migraine. Istat data on the spread of chronicity by age groups also disassemble another commonplace, which identifies chronicity as a problem of the elderly. The headache, on the other hand, affects 10.6 percent of people between 25 and 44 years of age and 8.1 percent of over seventy-five; in women it even occurs three times more frequently than in men. It is precisely in the light of these premises that it is clear that the measure in question is much awaited. Already in 2011 the then councillor of the Veneto Region, Mr Arianna Lazzarini, was the promoter of a bill, which the Regional Council, on October 20 of the same year, approved for its presentation to the Chambers. Despite a number of similar initiatives presented in both branches of Parliament, even in the last parliamentary term, this matter has not been dealt with by the relevant Commissions. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, this is an important day for the many sick waiting for a concrete signal from the institutions. The measure is the result of a shared content, having been approved by representatives of all parliamentary groups in the 12th Social Affairs Committee of the House of Deputies; therefore it is the result of teamwork, beyond party membership. It consists of a single article, paragraph 1 of which provides that chronic primary headache, established for at least one year in the patient by diagnosis carried out by a specialist in the sector at an accredited centre for the diagnosis and treatment of headaches that attests to its disabling effect, is recognized as a social disease for the purposes indicated in the following paragraph 2 and in the specifically attached forms, that is, chronic and high frequency migraine, chronic daily headache with or without excessive use of analgesic drugs, chronic cluster headache, chronic paroxistic migraine, short-lived unilateral neuralgiform headache with ocular redness and tearing and finally continuous migraine. The following paragraph 2 provides that, with a special decree prepared by the Minister of Health, to be adopted within one hundred and eighty days from the entry into force of this law, without new or greater burdens for public finance, and prior agreement established in the Permanent Conference for the relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the projects aimed at experimenting innovative methods of taking care of people suffering from headache in the forms referred to in paragraph 1 above, as well as the criteria and methods by which the Regions can provide for the implementation of the aforementioned projects. Evidence that this paragraph was modified during the work in XII Commission to the Chamber of Deputies, as a result of the criticalities on the financial aspects highlighted by the Commission budget with reference to the previous text, which referred the predisposition of the discipline to a decree of the Ministry of Health, which, in turn, should have adapted the text of the Ministry of Health of 20 December 1961 on the list of morbid forms to qualify as social diseases. The new paragraph 2, in addition to overcoming these problems, appears even more consistent with the concurrent regional legislative competence in the matter of health protection, as it provides that the aforementioned decree, to be adopted prior to understanding as mentioned above, identifies criteria and modalities for the implementation of innovative projects for the treatment of headaches. Compliance with the third paragraph of Article 117 of the Constitution was also noted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and the Parliamentary Committee on Regional Affairs in its opinions. It is therefore a slim text and suitable to finally give a first response to the many patients who are waiting. From the trial, in fact, can derive positive news for the patients, but also, in the medium to long term, a saving of expense in the context of the management of the taking charge of the subjects affected by the pathology in question. There is therefore the hope that the decrees of the Minister of Health will be adopted quickly and that the relevant legislation can subsequently be implemented also through the allocation of resources to be specifically allocated to experimental projects. Finally, I repeat the real need to meet the expectations of those who suffer daily because of a pathology that, while involving large groups of population and having all the characteristics of a chronic crippling disease, all too often, unfortunately, is considered invisible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u157	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u158	Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to point out that, in the examination of the draft law today for the attention of the Assembly, the work of the XII Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and of the 12th Commission of the Senate, as well as of all the committees which have contributed in the consultative session, has been carried out with the utmost correctness in the relations between the parliamentary groups, in order to ensure the necessary parliamentary dialectic and the necessary institutional confrontation between Parliament and the Government. So, today, all this allows us to proceed with the final examination, much awaited, of the draft law under consideration. I would therefore like to thank, on behalf of the Government, the Presidents of the two committees of merit, the rapporteurs - both in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Senate - and all the members of the committees of merit. A special appreciation goes also to the work of the Offices of the Commissions. Chronic primary headache - Senator Fregolent has already extensively listed the merits of the bill under consideration - is a social disease, in the forms of chronic high frequency migraine, chronic daily headache (with or without excessive use of analgesic drugs) of chronic cluster headache, chronic paroxistic migraine, short-lived unilateral neuralgiform headache with ocular redness and tearing, as well as continuous migraine. First of all, it should be pointed out that chronic primary headache is really a crippling disease. Senator Fregolent listed some of the issues, but the percentages are probably much higher. These are pathologies that are ignored by the patient himself, often misdiagnosed by doctors and without a proper diagnosis also the cure is difficult. This is a group of very disabling diseases. Only to give you some figures, in Italy about 12 percent of the population is affected and this percentage for migraine reaches 25 percent in women of childbearing age, which means that about 7 million people, mainly women, suffer from it. This obviously also has important economic implications. It is estimated that absence from work is close to 12 million days lost each year - a really important number - with an economic loss that in our nation is close to 3 billion euros. It is therefore necessary to think of the migraine and the group of pathologies that we are talking about today as a truly significant commitment for our country. In Europe, this figure is even close to EUR 20 billion per year. Therefore, it should be noted that the pathology under consideration results in definitely invalidating aspects and consequences that are reflected on the personal and relational life as well as on the working capacity of those affected by it. There is a significant fall in productivity, more than 20 percent of patients report having experienced a reduction in school or work performance of more than 50%. It is therefore for this reason that the need has arisen to qualify this disorder as a social disease and to make it subject to specific legislation. In particular, the bill we are considering today, for which I hope to be unanimous, is addressed to those suffering from chronic primary headaches that have been established for at least a year, through a specialist visit to an accredited center for the diagnosis and treatment of this disease that really attests to its disabling effect. Finally, as regards the financial impact, there is an obligation to highlight the absence of new and increased public finance burdens arising from the regulatory forecast under consideration. The innovative aspect of this draft law concerns the identification of specific research projects aimed at testing the responsibility of those affected by the above mentioned pathologies. In particular, by decree of the Minister of Health, to be adopted prior to agreement in the Permanent Conference for relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, the aforementioned projects will be identified. The criteria and methods by which the regions will have to implement them will also be defined. All this, as already pointed out, without increased or new burdens for public finance. In conclusion and in a nutshell, the aim of the legislation today in approval is to create a uniform diagnostic-therapeutic path throughout the national territory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u159	Since the draft law No 1250, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, consists of only Article 1, we shall proceed to the final vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u160	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u161	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u162	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, two brief comments on a measure which affects a huge health problem for our population. The Undersecretary has already provided important data, as has the rapporteur, Senator Fregolent, on the impact of our population. Even if we also consider muscle-tensive headaches, we reach the figure of 20-24 million inhabitants of people each year affected by this problem, so even a third of the population. This is an important step because recognizing headache as a social disease means meeting so many people who are affected by this disease that creates a huge disability. This is certainly not the first step in taking care of these patients. We know that a national day has already been established, on 19 May, and that all ASLs and all major hospital centers have had headache centers for years now. As far as therapy is concerned, in addition to the classic medicines (triptans, NSAIDs and cortisone) they are trying and testing medicines with monoclonal antibodies that we hope will take a step forward especially for the quality of life of these patients. I believe, however, that in order not to repeat what has already been said by my colleagues and the Undersecretary, one aspect on which we will have to dwell as legislators is the one that involves the medical-legal aspect, the scores and the disability committees. This is an issue which, among other things, we discussed today in the 7th Commission when we gave the opinion to the 12th Commission. Commission on the draft law on epilepsy. I pointed out that there is an important vulnus with regard to updating disability scores. We know that all this is regulated by the Ministerial Decree of 5 February 1992, which sets out the tables to which the committees which must then grant invalidity refer. There are INPS tables that serve as guidelines, but from a medical and legal point of view we must refer to the Ministerial Decree of 5 February 1992 which must be fully updated. So I said then that we must try to make a global reasoning when it comes to headache, fibromyalgia, epilepsy; moreover, in the post-critical phase of epilepsy, 50 percent of patients have headaches, so they are problems that intersect, because fibromyalgia can give muscle-tensive headache and so it would make sense to make an important legislative speech, i.e. to review and update disability tables. In fact, what is interesting is the recognition of the handicap, of the disability for these people so that they have the opportunity to treat themselves and to detach themselves from work properly, because we know very well that headaches often resolve by staying at home quiet, in the dark and without stress. I would just like to leave this solicitation: let's make a global talk about all these diseases with great relapse, so try to review the scores and the way in which disability is paid. Of course, the Group for the Autonomies I represent is absolutely in favour of this draft law and I therefore vote in favour of it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u163	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u164	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u165	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, let this measure come to the House from the other side of this House. Let us say straight away that we voted in favour of the draft law in the Commission and in advance that we will do the same in this House, so we shall vote in favour of a text which does not distort the structure of the National Health Service. This is an expected measure, right, to be put on the ground, but it is not the solution to the evils that afflict our National Health Service and, in the fall, the regional health services, which will instead have to be addressed with system measures. There is the usual mantra, this mood that is applied to all the measures, without new or increased burdens for public finance, even in the brief note drawn up by the Offices in five lines of explanation is repeated twice, President, if colleagues did not understand well that we must not spend a euro on this. It has little to do with politics; I am still waiting to see measures that can be implemented and that do not involve new or increased burdens; at least I do not know how to know them in the near future. Moreover, on this subject, undersecretary Sileri has anticipated that chronic primary headache, this truly disabling disease, has quantifiable social costs of about 3 billion euros. I think, therefore, that if we could have decided to allocate some resources to invest in these projects, for the benefit of the regional health services and the regions (because of this we will need, it is quite clear that this is a measure of outline, because the theme is part of the concurrent matter State-Regions and therefore agreements will have to be established, but above all we will have to perfect the protocols of taking charge and the innovative projects to be borne by the Regions), it would not have been so bad, since actually the social cost of these disabling diseases is absolutely relevant and clear. As I said, on the subject of health, little has been produced by the work of the Commission, which has so far arrived in this House; I hope that in the coming months and days we will be able to arrive in this House instead of system measures that can effectively address the major issues of national health. I have already announced our vote in favour, and I would like, Mr President, to conclude with a wish, which is not a digression on the subject but is perfectly within it: that the Government should stop giving the Italian citizens a headache, which is happening on time. [[Applause]] I am thinking above all of the workers who have been waiting for the integration fund since March, of the traders who have been forced to close and have to pay the Tari deposit, and it is useless for them to continue to make the list of those who are ill suffering from severe headaches because of the activity of this Government. It is very good therefore to vote on this text of law, but it would be very good also for the Government - Undersecretary Sileri, I take advantage of your presence for you to promote it - to stop giving the Italians a headache, because this would really be needed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u166	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u167	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u168	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, with the adoption of this measure on the recognition of chronic primary headache as a social disease, we will give a concrete response to hundreds of people who unfortunately suffer from it, to the associations that often represent them and to their families. The measure, of course, consists of only one article and is, as the rapporteur, Senator Fregolent, recalled, expected by two legislatures, perhaps three, on the contrary, colleagues who have been dealing with this issue for years tell me even from four legislatures. It is therefore a very long-awaited measure. In the first and only article of this bill, we talk about diagnosis, because of course this is fundamental, because this disease must be ascertained in the patient for more than a year and the diagnosis must be made by a specialist in the field at a center accredited by the centers of specialization for headache (in the time when we still did not have a law in fact many specialized centers have emerged on this topic). Diagnosis is very important, it is fundamental, being this the third crippling disease of the nervous system in the world. When we recognize a social disease, we also recognize the benefits to people who suffer from it, so it is even more important to make a precise diagnosis also to ascertain the headache as primary and therefore not as a symptom of another disease. The diagnosis, therefore, is at the heart of this measure. The fact that this is a crippling disease is the other key issue. The previous speakers reminded me of the statistics: young people suffer more, therefore those of working age, even children in school, and therefore it is a very important social disease that affects the world of work very much. Just think that the symptoms are nausea, vomiting, sensitivity to light and sound - so there are people who are not able to go to work - and above all that you lose a lot of concentration. That is why this is a fundamental measure. There is a recent research by Censis that also talks about the psychological impact of headache, in people who suffer from it and in their families. Women suffer more and this is also a very important issue. In the second paragraph, as the Undersecretary recalled, the law - could not fail to do so by entering health into the subjects of concurrent legislation - speaks precisely of a decree to be issued within one hundred and eighty days by the Government, after agreement with the State-Regions Conference, for experimental projects of innovative methods for primary headache. Mr. Undersecretary, it took us so long to make this law and now we hope that the Government, at this stage, will commit itself immediately to the decree implementing together with the Regions. She used an important word: "uniform" to ensure that this diagnostic-therapeutic path is uniform throughout the country. This has been a problem for all areas, but the uniformity of access, including treatment, and the recognition of headache is very important. We have already discussed the last issue in previous weeks regarding measures following Covid-19, and it is the need to strengthen local medicine. This aspect is already present in the first article of the decree relaunching and we, in my opinion, must go in this direction. We were talking about system measures because also to deal with chronic headache we certainly need teams prepared on the ground, as well as the strengthening of functional territorial aggregations, which are already provided for in the contract. A group of specialists, in fact, ranging from the neurologist to the psychiatrist, the ophthalmologist, the ear doctor, the cardiologist and the dentist, can best address this issue of chronic headache. System interventions must therefore go in this direction to deal with this disease. Of course, today, with the approval of the recognition of primary headache as a social disease, is important. My group will vote strongly in favour of this measure and I think that the important added value is that all political forces vote for it and that all political forces have committed themselves in this direction, both in the Commission and in this House, and above all in the House. I believe that at the very least we share health, the more we bring good to our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u169	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u170	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u171	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a reference to what the coordinator of the Association of Cefalgics says about headaches, which is about a very complicated life and the fact that people are often not listening and they think that they are apologizing. This is what headache patients have always found, to date, because the inclusion of chronic primary headache as a social disease had not yet occurred. Thus, the identification of innovative methods (and there are many, which are being tested and are beginning to bear good fruit) had not yet been recognized. Therefore, with regard to this painful condition which I mentioned earlier, today, if we want, as a Parliament, we can achieve two major objectives by finally approving the unified text. I really have to say thanks to my colleagues, including the House, who have presented two texts, one from the League and one from the Democratic Party, but they have unified them and voted for a single text all together. This text, which has arrived here at the Senate and, thanks again to the will of all our colleagues, we have approved it without any change, as it is already an exhaustive text compared to what we need. This text was almost approved, but the Covid unfortunately stopped the process. The measure was on the agenda of the sitting on 11 March, but we had to change our programmes. As my colleagues have already said, headache is not a simple headache (the one we all suffer from and that maybe someone has even here today), but it is a much more crippling disease and with social and economic costs that are not indifferent. It is the third most widespread disease in the world, although - as I said before - it is frankly underestimated and almost diminished and minimized. The difficult coexistence with the painful symptoms experienced by sufferers has therefore never found a definitive solution. As has been said before, in Italy the health costs associated with headache are enormous. Those who do not have a frequent headache spend about 800 euros a year, while those who suffer from a frequent headache get to spend over 2,000 euros, so an important amount, and we know that we have to take care of these people. Among other things - as we have already said in some passages - headache is the so-called gender illness, because compared to men women who suffer from it are three times more and it is even more striking because it affects in the fertile and working period, with all the effects that result (in particular having to face daily life tirelessly with the family and the work, which often is unfortunately not possible to go). Those suffering from chronic headache live a life of constant suffering, with annoyance towards the light and being forced to abuse drugs, failing to find yet now a drug that can permanently soothe the pain. At this point we have another problem: since the headache has not been considered or recorded, we have a duty to have an accurate and correct diagnosis and history in order to then be able to collect the data. This is the theme. This is the fourth parliamentary term - as my colleague said earlier - in which Parliament tries to tackle this issue. We tried so many times; both I and Senator Rizzotti presented a bill in the Senate. This is a subject that is very dear to all of us. After this long and thoughtful reflection, we must therefore give the citizens a firm and concrete answer, first of all with the recognition of social disease, because it has all the characteristics of it. If you go to see the description of what a social disease is, you notice that the headache has all the characteristics. However - I am referring to Article 1 (2) of the measure - it takes at least one year to monitor the patient by means of a diagnosis to ensure that the disease is invalid. We must therefore provide for proper monitoring. For this reason, too, the measure is not supported at the moment by funding: we must first understand how much we need and - then - we will definitely make a commitment to support the measure even financially. This research work is carried out by the competent structures (we know that throughout Italy there are centres for the recognition of headaches), through the work of specialists, neurologists and pharmacology with specific skills absolutely fundamental to the detection of headaches. Putting headache on the list of social diseases is therefore the first step in the right direction for social and occupational protection against this very significant number of patients. I told you that it is intended to give headache recognition at national level. This is important, because some regions have already recognized headache through regulations (even with the recognition of disability), but we are here because we want a valid law on the entire national territory to which everyone can appeal. What we're operating is a mandatory passage. Headache should be diagnosed in a certain and recognised way through the involvement of specialised centres. This will allow us to have clearer data and a more correct estimate to understand the epidemiological impact on the population. Therefore, this is an important first step, also because the next one will certainly concern the issue of the LEA: if we have to recognize the disease and see its impact on the population, then we will have to deal with the issue of funding at the National Health Service. The patient must be given all the necessary procedures, therefore an early and effective diagnosis, prevention and awareness-raising activity. It is a social disease that, seen and considered the theme of the territoriality of health that has been mentioned even before, it is necessary to approach immediately, from the first hint, in such a way that prevention is also made, just to avoid that there are a multitude of patients looking for places where to find a certain answer. Today, I believe that Parliament is working to improve the quality of life of people suffering from this disease, giving way to the bill for our examination which I hope will be approved, as has been done in the House, unanimously. I believe that we are really doing our citizens a service and we are listening to them. That is what we must do. I am pleased that we have come to the end of a very long path that has led us to an important first goal, because if what politics does and must do is improve the quality of life of citizens, and above all - as in this case - those suffering from pathologies such as the one we are dealing with here, we must be proud of what we are doing today. That is why I declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour of the bill on our examination. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u172	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u173	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u174	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, more than 20 years have passed since a proposal for a law for the recognition of chronic primary headache as a social disease was first presented in Parliament. From the thirteenth legislature and then in the following, until the present one, we have always wanted to bring the attention of the Chambers to the need to recognize this serious crippling disease as chronic disease, but it has never been started. I hope that today, after 20 years, this important measure can finally be approved. The draft law under consideration today consists of an article and two paragraphs and is intended to recognise chronic headache as a social disease. In order to achieve recognition, it has been said that it is necessary that the disease has been established for at least one year, with diagnosis carried out by a specialist in the field at an accredited centre for the diagnosis and treatment of headaches. Attestation of the effect indicates that the disease is able to severely limit or compromise the ability to cope with family and work commitments. I would remind you that in order to be defined as social, a disease must have characteristics such as high incidence, wide spread in the population and statistical relevance in terms of large-scale morbidity and must have a continuity over time for which there is a cost of public resources for health care and therefore individual and collective economic damage. According to WHO, headache is at the top of disabling diseases and is a pathology capable of limiting or compromising one's ability to work. In contrast to what can be imagined, however, it entails significant direct and indirect economic and social costs. The first concerns the costs of diagnosis, treatment, outpatient visits, hospital admissions and diagnostic investigations, while the indirect costs relate to the incidence of absences at work and reduced productivity. Some changes have been made to the House: the first has rewritten paragraph 2 which, in the current reformulation, provides that the Minister of Health, with his own decree, that I hope it is also quick, identifies the projects aimed at experimenting innovative methods of taking charge of people suffering from chronic primary headache, as well as criteria and methods by which the Regions implement these projects. In the initial version, however, paragraph 2 provided for the Minister of Health to supplement the decree of the Minister of Health of 1961 which lists the morbid forms to qualify as social diseases, precisely to add chronic headache to the list. It is, however, as I said, a ministerial decree of 1961, so with another kind of health, with other limitations; it is also a outdated version and would be urgently needed to be updated. Italy today does not provide for the normative recognition of this disease nor the status of social disease, so the same diagnosis of its severity and related care vary significantly depending on the regional health services. There are numerous centres in our regions for the diagnosis and treatment of headaches, but they are not enough. It is necessary that there are structures and diagnostic-therapeutic care paths spread throughout our territory in a uniform manner. However, the recognition of chronic primary headache as a social disease is an important step in this direction and allows a better organization and management of resources, the effectiveness of diagnosis and treatment of the pathology, and above all allows greater homogeneity in our territory. What we dispute, however, as Forza Italia, is once again the clause of financial invariance, which strongly weakens the effectiveness of this bill. In fact, the failure to provide additional resources is an obvious limit that risks injuring its own aims. If it is true that it takes a year to recognize it in order to quantify, as Mrs Boldrini said, the financing to be established, it is also true that the regions have been suffering constant and heavy cuts in budgets for years. How do you diagnose if the headache centers are few and aren't online? So it becomes a bit problematic a zero-cost law of this kind. It should be pointed out that headache is often also a symptom of rare diseases, the diagnosis of which is often uncomfortable in the pathways and uncertain in the outcomes. Let's tell the truth, we will know how to fill this great gap: you know well that my reference is to the ESM funds. Italy in recent months has the historic opportunity to return to a long-term national strategy and to rethink the structure and functioning of a health system that has been progressively definanced and abandoned in recent years. The results, unfortunately, have been seen in these months of emergency. It is necessary to focus on the real development of territorial medicine organized with districts, clinics, home care, chronic management, proximity to the weakest, social and health residences (which in some parts of the country do not exist or are totally insufficient). Such mistreated funds from the ESM would, for example, serve to modernize all those old equipment that for years have not been properly maintained. This is a problem to be addressed: I am thinking of waiting lists precisely for old machines that work little; I am thinking of all mammographic diagnosis with mammographs that are twenty years old and that can also make diagnosis of negativity for breast cancer. Thank God, screening is free in our country; but if, when you are called to make the diagnosis, the mammogram machine is old and gives a negative result, you find yourself, in addition to the state of the patient with a tumor not diagnosed in the time, even with additional health costs. I could go on and give thousands of examples. My appeal really is: Europe gives us this opportunity and we should not miss this appointment. Let us put aside the ideologies and try to be practical, because to get the money (as we say, more than 20 billion) for our health system, a debt somewhere is made, whether they issue government bonds, or they take the money of the ESM (with the difference that the interests on the funds of the ESM are much less). So let us learn the lesson from the tragedy that our health system and our country have experienced. We leave behind Italy of unfinished hospitals, of hiring in health care as electoral basins, of people without professionalism. Instead, it is necessary to aim to build a country where there are networks of social and health services everywhere, territorial, capillaries and efficient, diagnostics, prevention, quality health administration, long-term care. The list could be very long. The recognition of chronic primary headache as a social disease is certainly an important step towards a possible and subsequent - we hope as quickly as possible - insertion into the essential levels of care (LEA), as the thousands of people who suffer from this disease rightly expect. Announcement of the vote in favour of the Forza Italia Group. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u175	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u176	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u177	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the government, colleagues and colleagues, I am pleased to speak today in an explanation of vote on the draft law on headaches in support of a disorder which, at last, will be considered a social disease. As some colleagues have already said, this is a project that was born twenty years ago. Already since then they tried, but it was in Veneto in 2011, after a long work, that a bill was born in the Regional Council to propose to the Chambers. Not being properly dealt with in the various relevant Commissions, however, it did not succeed. There was even the contribution of the Veneto Regional Center for headaches. It is precisely by falling into the reality of the people affected that the idea of the bill was born. It is a disorder that affects continuously and prolonged over time, without even today knowing the causes. People suffering from chronic primary headache frequently experience a worsening of their quality of life. The objective of the law is to give uniformity throughout the national territory with the insertion of the primary chronic headache as a social disease diagnosed for at least one year with disabling characteristics (chronic daily migraine, chronic cluster headache, chronic paroxysmic migraine, unilateral neuralgiform headache of short duration with ocular redness and tearing). These are the symptoms. According to the World Health Organization, headache is in third place - as has already been said by Undersecretary Sileri - among disabling diseases. According to our colleague, Mr Lazzarini, who promoted the text to the House, it is more widespread than we can imagine: it affects, as has already been said, 12% of the people in Italy (7 million Italians), with a high percentage of women, in whom it manifests itself with great importance. As for chronicity in the different age groups, it is curious to observe the manifestation in the age group between twenty and fifty years. With the now massive and widespread use of computers and videoterminals, headaches and migraines have spread a great deal, due precisely to continuous and constant exposure of people to these devices. It would seem that all the time that young people spend chatting to video games, chatting with smartphones and tablets would help to provoke real migraine crises that, over time, would turn into pathologies and would be the cause of this problem. According to an article published by the Umberto Veronesi Foundation, it is in this period of Covid, during which most of our youth workforce is forced to stay at home and work in smart working, that headaches and migraines are growing sharply. The long hours spent in front of computers, plus sleepless nights or, in any case, a poor quality of rest hours, or quarantine, during which excessive sedentaryness was imposed, spending too many hours in front of television and undergoing media bombardment on the Covid epidemic, have increased the number of people who will probably be brought to suffer from this disorder. The states of anxiety and stress also collaborate, which would be an aggravating factor that could give rise to a tensioning headache, which is part of the family of chronic primary headaches, precisely referred to in the bill. The Ministry of Health will have to provide a study on both direct and indirect costs so that it can be submitted to the Commission for LEAs and identify projects aimed at testing innovative methods of taking care of the patient. The direct costs we know are the costs of care and treatment; the indirect costs are the incidence of absence of work. Chronic primary headache will be recognized as a crippling disease after being established in the patient for a year, as we have said, and recognized by an accredited specialist center. The disease must be assessed in relation to the working and living environment. If you suffer from headaches and complain to relatives and friends, you often hear them respond \ Take aspirin Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â Â When it comes to chronic primary headache, the person in charge of certain office jobs can no longer stand up in front of the computer: he can't read, the noises and the attention, the memory and the concentration suffer a serious decrease. It lasts two or three days, but then it comes back again: it lacks appetite and suffers from nausea, chills in the body, malaise and feeling sick; the migraine does not save even the housewives and can severely limit or compromise the ability to cope with family and work commitments, with huge economic and social costs and a sharp drop in productivity. Diseases resulting from chronic primary headache affect all daily activities, from family and social to working life, with a 50% reduction in school and work productivity. The costs associated with the disease are very high: medical expenses, carrying out diagnostic tests, buying medicines and, as I mentioned earlier, indirect costs related to the loss of working days, reduced production efficiency and all the time devoted to the management of the state of malaise. It is therefore necessary to give normative recognition to the disease: let us not abandon the people affected in this way and give them back their dignity of life. Chronic primary headache is a social disease, so our vote will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u178	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u180	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, headaches are a very widespread clinical condition among the population. According to WHO, headache is third in the world among disabling diseases. As mentioned above, a first distinction should be made essentially between primary (or disease headache) and secondary (or symptom headache): in the first case, the problem is pain (for so-called headache, with associated symptoms); in the second case, it is only the signal of a much more challenging underlying disease (e.g. tumors or sinusitis). The bill that we are about to approve today is intended to recognize chronic primary headache as a social disease. The different forms of primary headache affect on average 12 percent of the individuals, with clear prevalence in the female sex. A first consideration is that, unlike most chronic diseases, this does not manifest or constitute an exclusive problem of the elderly; indeed, it manifests itself mainly between the twenty-five and the fifty-five years, that is, in the period of greater productivity of the life of each subject. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] In the draft law under consideration, an important reference point is the chronological criterion: the duration of symptoms must be at least one year. Another criterion, which we could define of objectivity and specialist competence, is that the evaluation and diagnosis must be certified by the specialist doctor at the accredited Center for the diagnosis and treatment of headaches, which must certify its disabling effect. The primary chronic headache, in fact, with the associated symptoms and all its clinical forms has a decisive effect on the quality of life of the patient, compromising, on the one hand, the social and relational life and, on the other, the work activity, with absences for illness and the loss of productive efficiency during the attacks. Let us not forget the economic impact, with the high direct costs associated with diagnosis, visits, diagnostic tests and the consumption of drugs. This applies to the different forms of headache: chronic migraine, cluster headache, tension headache. The important thing is the correct and early detection of subjects affected by this disease, their monitoring to avoid exposing the patient to unleashing occupational factors. As is well known, headache attacks can occur during working hours, involving, in these cases, indirectly also the whole work chain. Consequently, consideration should also be given to the safety aspect at the workplace and the possible risks of accidents caused by the lack of attention. It is therefore necessary to carefully assess the consequences of such situations in order to apply the appropriate organisational, technical and restrictive preventive measures, which are strictly personalised, to prevent the risk of accidents or accidents. Cardinals of the measure under consideration - in order to obtain the right implications in the field of work - is the recognition of the disease under consideration as a social disease. It is important to stress the identification, provided for in the draft law, of projects aimed at experimenting with innovative methods of taking care of people with this disease. Hence, in summary, chronic primary headache as recognized disabling disease, refractory to therapy, is able to severely and chronically limit or compromise the ability to cope with family and work commitments. I believe that politics - even in the multiplicity of different positions and different sensitivities - must, on certain issues in particular, find and provide a unified response, overcoming the divisions in order to offer citizens the right, appropriate and necessary answers, capable of improving their quality of life not only from the economic point of view, but also from the social and relational point of view. On certain issues there must be the broadest convergence of all, and diseases recognized as social are one of these cases. The criteria for defining a disease as social are, among others, its widespread spread in the population, its high incidence, its high cost of public resources for health care and, finally, the economic, individual and collective damage it entails. Chronic primary headache fits perfectly into these parameters in order to define it as social disease. The Movimento 5 Stars, a political force that has always been attentive to the needs and problems of citizens, which has made its political-social vision (no one must remain behind) a fundamental reason for its being movement among citizens, with citizens and for citizens, can only give this measure, for due respect and recognition to those who really suffer and whose life is strongly marked by this disease, their vote firmly favorable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u183	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 113 (2), second sentence, I ask as the Parent Company that the vote be taken simultaneously by electronic procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u184	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1250. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[v. Annex B. Applause]] Consequently, the draft law no. 184 and 302.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u185	The next item is the debate on document XXIII, No 2. The report has already been printed and distributed. I call Senator Bossi Simone to explain the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u186	Mr President, in view of the territorial dimensions of the Umbria Region and its specificities, the Commission of Inquiry has identified the issues on which attention and action has been sought from all the relevant parties. (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 5.30 p.m. and resumed at 5.30 The issues dealt with by the Commission concern specific aspects and problems of the Region in the matter of waste cycle and water protection, as well as judicial events related to some specific environmental criticalities and the need to prevent illicit phenomena. It should be borne in mind that the Commission's acquisitions in this legislature are in a particular temporal situation, which develops between the crisis in the management of the waste cycle in the Region and the results of the recent regional elections, which have seen a shift of the majority in the government of the Region. Going by order and in detail on the waste cycle, after having examined the report on the deepening of the Umbrian territorial situation, approved unanimously to the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the environmental illicits related to it, it has emerged the ineffectiveness of the long-term vision of the Region for the management of the problems related to the management of urban waste. This leads to a certain degree of uncertainty about the maintenance of the regional system in the medium term and the planning of actions and policies in this area. Indeed, an uncertain picture has emerged regarding the closure of the waste cycle and therefore the self-sufficiency of the current disposal system, based mainly on landfilling. On the Umbrian waste cycle, three main problems emerged: the low quality of landfilled waste, with the consequent substantial waste waste waste that is eligible for treatment processes, the poor efficiency of post-harvest treatment plants and the lack of a closure of the waste cycle, as foreseen by the European principles of the circular economy. For the Umbria Region, in fact, landfill disposal is still the main option practiced and practicable, so much so that, in order to meet the needs of disposal, it was necessary to expand the volumes of existing landfills. On the issue of water protection, however, there is a worrying persistence of infringement procedures for certain Umbrian agglomerations, but not only. The Umbrian reality has in fact some specific characteristics, among which we point out: the presence of chlorinated solvents in a layer, the pollution of the groundwater below the production plants of AST (on which it is necessary to draw the attention of the Minister of the environment and the public administrations concerned, as well as of the relevant control bodies), the pollution deriving from livestock farms and livestock waste. In addition, in the context of the Commission's examination, the issue of mercury contamination of the Paglia river emerged; this inter-regional issue is also relevant to the potential impacts on different water basins. On the issue of judicial affairs relating to certain specific environmental problems, the Commission's intercourse with the judicial authorities and the judicial police operating in the Umbrian territory does not seem to emerge links with organized crime, as much as widespread illicits and some specifics on which the utmost attention must be paid. On the phenomena of fires at waste treatment plants and on the involvement of the Umbrian territory, it emerges the need for preventive actions, including through an appropriate programming of controls, planning tools and inter-agency collaboration of the National System of Environmental Protection, which take into account the complex reality of the plant, also for the apparently minor, but potentially at risk. The environmental situation of Terni, specifically of the concaternana, is of particular importance. The history of the city of Terni is in fact closely linked to the industrial development of the area, which has permeated the local society, guaranteeing employment and economic development to which only in recent times an increasing sensitivity of environmental character has been added. From this specific situation it is evident that it is important that the public administration and the competent control bodies maintain a constant view of the situation, based on specific and scientific data, which has allowed compliance and corrective action in the active administration, but also the deepening of the presence of diseases related to environmental pollution. In this respect, special steel production and the management of the landfill of special steels Terni, the most important company in the territory, which are authorised under the regional AIA scheme, the first release of which dates back to 2010, followed by a renewal for 12 years, at the end of 2019. It is necessary to ensure that the technological innovations with a positive environmental impact announced by the company will have to be seriously examined and the necessary stresses. I refer in particular to the AST project for a waste recovery plant, which is subject to the renewal of the AIA. This is a significant hypothesis of end of waste and waste reduction to be started in landfill, for which it is desirable to achieve a guaranteed environmental protection, fast in time, clear and effective in the application of the rules, whose adoption and enforcement by the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea is therefore urgent and necessary. In addition, during the construction of the Tescino tunnel of the Terni-Rieti highway, which passes right under the base of a AST landfill, there have been infiltrations of water that has been contaminated by heavy metals and nitrates. Emergency safety work was carried out, consisting of collecting and sending out contaminated surface water to treatment plants. The case is the subject of criminal proceedings with results that have not yet been fully completed. Furthermore, it was found that the bottom of the landfill does not have a homogeneous artificial waterproof layer. In this regard the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea has assumed the complete removal of the waste, but it would be an initiative of very high cost not only economic, but also environmental. In addition, the issue of the health of the air, which is not the subject of the Commission, has been dealt with for the sake of complete information, recording the attempt of ARPA Umbria to give rational priority and objectives in the planning of controls. In Umbria there are two thermo-towers, whose efficiency and compliance with the standards must be constantly monitored. Moreover, it is necessary to give clear answers regarding the concerns that such plants, both of landfill and of heat-to-energy, can be used to manage the difficulties of Rome capital in managing its own waste cycle Particular importance for the Region has the issue of the site of national interest (SIN) Terni-Papigno, on which the analysis of the information acquired during the territorial investigation in this legislature shows scarce concrete activities put in place and a low level of active intervention and attention on the situation of the site. Moreover, the delay already highlighted by the Commission in the XVII legislature in the path of return to legitimate uses and effective protection compared to contamination has become further aggravated and therefore it is necessary a renewed and concrete interest from the Ministry of the environment and the protection of the territory and the sea In the light of the activities carried out by the Commission in the context of the investigation into the territorial situation of the Umbria Region, it is clear that individual illegal facts in the territory should not be underestimated and that the evaluation cannot be parcelled. The most effective form of prevention of illicit phenomena is certainly the correct and efficient administration, in all its aspects, and in particular those of planning, to which the Umbria Region is called, and those of control, that ARPA Umbria must guarantee, continuing in the search for greater efficiency and also critically examining the recent management. Therefore, all stakeholders involved in administration and control are required to anticipate and prevent as much as possible new criticalities, researching and sharing a common view of the problems and an effective sharing of their knowledge and information, respecting the mutual competences. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u187	I note that any motions for resolutions to this document may be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u188	Mr President, this afternoon there is little Umbria, who once was red-green and today is only green, to the attention of the Senate Assembly. So it's a good omen in this case. The question of waste management and the related events is one of the elements that has determined the evidence that after a majority that had ruled the Region for so many years, it was time for democracy and, therefore, alternation. The Umbria waste system is certainly not in a dramatic emergency such as Campania or other regions, but it is a system that is characterized, as the report points out perfectly - and I would like to thank Mr Briziarelli and the entire Committee of Inquiry for the work carried out - for the tired and careless management of a sector that, precisely because Umbria is characterized as a territory with high environmental value, landscape, historical, cultural and typical local production, represents a really serious and dangerous inattention, until reaching the current emerging phase. For years, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition - I recall that I was a regional adviser and chairman of a monitoring committee - we started an investigation into the waste system, highlighting this inattention, this sloppyness, which can be summed up in a joke we kept repeating, talking about hiding the trash under the carpet, as happens in the worst habits of the worst families. This is what has happened for years in Umbria; landfills have been attacked, giving such a refusal, and they have been quickly filled in advance, with the consequent necessity of repeated enlargements, even in the vertical and not only horizontal sense, with repeated recompacts of landfills, obvious problems of environmental impact on the waste, on the percolate that has repeatedly racked from numerous sites, as demonstrated by numerous investigations and measures of the judiciary. Last but not least, the famous affair, mentioned in the Commission's report, of the main regional waste management company, which has been the subject of numerous interdicts that have dangerously limited its action and dramatically put the production of the service at risk for the benefit of citizens with a serious and severe increase in tariffs. I was therefore talking about the classic scheme of separate collection, of the push on separate collection, of the rewards of the municipalities poorly carried out, even zeroed in numerous annual steps towards the so-called virtuous municipalities. The lack of differentiation of tariffs between virtuous and less virtuous municipalities. All the managing bodies within a political logic that prevented a serious debate on the overall system of collection and disposal. We are, therefore, talking about a sloppy separate collection that systematically landed and unfortunately still arrives at the landfill. So the real theme, that of reuse, was left in the shadows, if not totally disowned. We say, therefore, a banal statement of a good level of separate collection claimed, but then, going to see how much of this separate collection was directed to reuse, the Commission recorded that this is done in a absolutely minimal way and does not reflect the need for a deep reuse of the materials being collected separately. In my view, the system is at present collapsed; the need to close the cycle through the waste-to-energy plant is also felt perfectly in the existing regional waste plan, but has not been implemented; [[Brusio. References by the President]] This acclaimed need for the closure of the cycle, recognised also by the documents drawn up by the old majority, not least the regional waste plan still in force, has never come to the decision - I realize it is difficult - to identify a site for the thermo-value of the dry fraction, as desired by the current plan, and therefore it has remained absolutely unfinished. Today reality sees the new majority having to face this topic starting from scratch; I hope that, even after this investigation, we can use the document produced by it, which obviously tries to highlight lights and shadows (I do not see what the lights are, but I see perfectly clearly the shadows), and that a photograph that will have to be in support of the new regional waste plan that we are already soliciting and that the new regional majority is already taking charge of in terms of listening to the territories and recording the levels now absolutely pre-collapse of landfilling. The trend in tariffs followed the sloppyness that I had previously recorded; moreover, the tariffs of the users in the regional context are characterized by great disparity: there are administrations, like that of the capital, strongly burdened by exorbitant tariffs evidently to the citizens and all this produces a diffuse level of discontent that then has determined the result of the recent regional elections. Colleagues, it was not health care that determined what happened and that inevitably had to happen sooner or later in Umbria; in fact, in my opinion, it was precisely the waste management system and the inability of the old majority of Umbria government to determine a clear vision and a step-by-step path that would regulate the whole system and close down landfills. We have repeatedly reiterated that the system based on landfilling is now abandoned throughout Europe certainly by the most virtuous countries, but also in Italy by the most capable and virtuous regions, while in Umbria it continues undeterred with full landfills, as I said before, repeatedly expanded both horizontally and vertically. The moral of the story is that this Commission has produced a good document. We would like it to end with a resolution that commits the Ministry to deal with Umbria with the elaboration of projects aimed at the accommodation of the cycle and the Region to develop a new regional health plan that provides for the closure of the cycle, which cannot be with the landfill and, above all, asserts or at any rate attributes to those who have it - and it is certainly not the center-right - the responsibilities of what is happening and the pre-collapse situation largely emerging of the integrated cycle of waste of the Umbria Region. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u189	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report that has been presented to the Senate with regard to the Commission of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle in Umbria allows us to make a more comprehensive analysis than some of the considerations I have just heard. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u191	Excuse me, Senator Grimani. Everyone talks to everyone and therefore the noise level is really excessive, it is hard to hear what Senator Grimani says. It is not mandatory to be here, and Members should be allowed to speak. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u192	I was saying that this report opens up a reflection on the waste policy in Umbria over the past few years. There are certainly problems, no one wants to hide them, but surely this Commission was born with different intentions than those of a simple analysis of Umbrian waste policy. We were at a time when the regional elections were approaching, the elections in some important cities in Umbria and therefore a certain amount of instrumentality in my opinion is felt in the founding motive of this Commission. This is a necessary political assessment, but that ends here, because then the numbers within the report highlight some important critical issues from the point of view of the analysis of the management of the waste cycle in Umbria. In my region there are considerable problems from the point of view of the conclusion of the waste cycle. Landfills are in a condition of almost maximum absorption possible, the numbers that are at the root of this problem, that is those of separate collection, are emblematic, in the sense that then you are at levels of 2018 of 63 percent, but the targets were much higher: in 2020 the target of 73 percent was expected. The landfilling targets were one third lower than the current numbers. In 2012 the documents spoke of 60,000 tons a year of waste in landfill, we are practically triple. There are therefore structural problems and there is no doubt that the Region has been governed by a clear political cycle in recent years, but we must say that these data provide us, on the one hand, a clear analysis of what has been up to now the management of waste in Umbria, and, on the other hand of the elements to build a future planning that belongs to the Region and to the new majority that will rule Umbria from October. There is no doubt that the problems have been added up: not only is there a separate collection that does not yet offer those results that were thought of in the programming documents, but there is also the problem, for example, of secondary solid fuel (CSS), i.e. a part of waste should be the subject of combustion capable of producing fuel. This is another of the themes we have been talking about for many years in Umbria. The documents already from 2015 expected that we should start with the production of CSS, but this has never happened and this means more waste in landfill than the planned ones. There is the problem of the quality of separate collection, as I said before, which shows considerable problems from the point of view, for example, of the stabilization of part of the organic waste of separate collection, which is not like the programmatic intentions predicted; there is the problem of a part of the dry residue of the undifferentiated collection, plastic. The numbers are higher than those of the programming and this has resulted in the need to bring some of the waste to other regions, contrary also to those that are the legislative lines of decree no. 152 of 2006. So, there are problems. The future is to have to upgrade plant facilities and review the quality of separate collection in order really to move towards the landfill reduction targets, as required by the circular economy documents in Europe, to 10% in 2030. Alongside this analysis, which nobody hides to have to do and which shows, therefore, the need to set up a renewed regional planning in order to achieve the objectives of which I said, there is then the whole issue concerning the province of Terni and, in particular, the analysis of the situation of the site of national interest Terni Papigno, one of the 39 sites of national interest throughout Italy. This site highlights the criticalities of a place characterized by the presence of industrial settlements and, mainly, of the steel works, which, necessarily, has conditioned the livability of this territory, which is then mine. On this, it is urgent to put in place the initiatives for the protection of this territory that, among other things, is a territory characterized by a naturalistic quality of excellence. The Marmore waterfall, which is one of the world's most important natural sites, insists on this very area. In this sense, the relationship between the great industry, which is the beating heart of the ternan history, the steel works, and the issue of environmental sustainability and the life of citizens, which takes priority at this stage. The activity of the steel mill is also connected to the presence of the landfill of Villa Valle, which has a strong impact from the environmental point of view; a landfill that insists in that area I was talking about before, that has characterized itself for the case of the tunnel of the Tescino, that has determined infiltrations of contaminated water just in the part below the landfill. There is also the issue of steel-making slag, but it can also be a development issue, in the sense that the steel-making industry has presented a project, which is the basis of the renewed environmental authorisation in 2019, of reducing the waste produced, through re-use of it. There is a project of EUR 60 million, which should reduce the amount of waste produced by steel processing in five years by 25%. It's something that the territory is very focused on. The project, which was entrusted to a Finnish company, Tapojarvi, saw a slowdown due to the effects of the Covid-19, but it is a decisive starting point of that territory. This is to say that this report allows us to have a plastic representation of the Umbrian situation. I believe that the case of judicial investigations, which in some way forms the basis for the establishment of this Commission, is well dealt with in the same report, where it is pointed out that there is no link with organised crime. This does not mean that the subject of controls has been treated in a perfect way, because then, within the report itself, there are documents that highlight this aspect, as well as the testimony of the deputy prosecutor of Perugia, who said that, however, the control activity had to be done with greater merit and with greater attention. In the light of the analysis that emerges from the report, however, there is no evidence of links with organised crime. This does not mean that everything is okay, but it diminishes the aspect of the judicial affair which, in some way, is in the background of the report. The Commission of Inquiry, in fact, is also born from the events that concerned Gesenu, the company that managed the disposal of waste in Perugia, and the story of Val Nestore. There is no doubt, however, that the basis for our reflection must be that the judicial question lies with the courtrooms. The autonomy of the judiciary will take its course and decide whether or not behavior has been unlawful. What politics has to do is to use these data to build regional planning, and the Government, in this sense, can give a boost as regards the role of the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea on the issues that it is responsible for. There is no doubt, however, that the planning and planning of waste cycle management is the responsibility of the Region, which in the coming months will have to build a plan that takes into account the current situation and those that must be the future objectives. I believe that the whole policy must be ready for a joint reflection on this. I hope that the outcome of this debate will result in a sharing of a minimum of reasoning that can be useful to the Umbria Region to set policies on the waste cycle for the coming years. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u193	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is an extremely important moment for my region - Umbria - with a parliamentary passage for a full, thorough and structured relationship in a very timely manner. I will make a general speech not as a member of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle and the related environmental offences, but simply as a Umbrian citizen. Umbria was characterized and is still characterized by a slogan that has accompanied it for many years, which is the green heart of Italy. Umbria has always been a particular region because, despite being in the center of the peninsula and not having reached the sea, it has found in this natural green conformation a precise location, which is maintaining also in this period and that, at the exit - hopefully - from the emergency Covid is one of the strengths on which Umbria is aiming (Umbria green heart of Italy and Umbria beautiful and safe). This great attitude to environmental protection has meant that in Umbrian citizens there is a great deal of attention to the environment and nature around us. I say this because, unfortunately, Umbria has a negative record, because the first inquiry into waste and pollution started from our territories. It was back in 2002 when the one that was certified as the first investigation of an environmental disaster, concerning the town of Trevi and the spilling of poisonous sewage in the river Clitunno, started. This is a negative story, but it is determined - in my opinion - by the great attention of the Umbrian people to the protection of nature and natural resources. Over the last few years we have also had a great debate in Parliament's classrooms and what is emerging in recent days is certainly the need for a new paradigm in waste management and the environment. I say this because now we are probably at a turning point, also as far as my career in activism and politics is concerned. We are talking about zero waste strategy (the famous zero waste strategy) since 2008 and maybe even a few years before. However, at this point, the zero waste strategy remains a little hung and unenforced. The question should be asked why, after so much work and so much energy spent in this respect, it has remained substantially unanswered. Surely we need a paradigm shift in cultural approach to both environmental management and management of the business and industrial world. I say this because we have had a great difficulty, precisely during the current parliamentary term, in bringing to completion the reform of second raw materials, the famous end of waste, in which we have come up against a mentality, in my view, extremely old-fashioned because it confronts the current problems. I would like to give an example which may not seem to concern this subject, but clearly, at the level of attitude, is relevant. In these days there is a lot of talk about the so-called Genoa model that is ironed on one side and on the other to establish its origin. In fact, probably - and the simplification decree will show us when we have the opportunity to read it - in this country the need to derogate from a series of norms that have for too long cast and immobilized it is no longer postponed, but this must be done above all in environmental terms with a new attitude, so surely it is necessary to reward the actions - I also speak of citizens and entrepreneurs - virtuous but also establish a whole series of controls. Having said that, I should like to add two final points. First of all, we have fortunately a new law on eco-reactions which in 2015 introduced a fundamental word into our system that is'reversibilità'. In my opinion this is the word on which to build all our future actions because if it was true that in the past it was impossible to carry out certain actions, in the face of the word reversibility many things can be done for Italian development and entrepreneurship, effectively protecting the environment. I conclude by saying that fortunately, now, to the government of the Umbria Region there is our former colleague, Senator Donatella Tesei, who has settled for a few months, so surely Umbria, compared to everything that is written in the report to our examination and to all the dark pages that we have left behind, is facing a new path. I believe that the footprint of the Umbria Region leading the League, guided by Thesei, is evident and effective. I bring to this House news that arrived a few days ago: finally, thanks to the new junta of center-right to guide Tesei, the regional headquarters of the ARPA was moved from Perugia to the city of Terni that we understood to be extremely suffering from the environmental point of view for a whole series of historical reasons. I therefore believe that the Tesei junta, the new Umbrian regional committee, has given a great stimulus, a boost towards a different and new attitude in environmental protection that is really effective and, above all, innovative and in contact with the territory. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u195	She is registered to speak Senator Pavanelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u196	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the unanimous approval of the final report on the Umbria Region by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities connected with the waste cycle on environmental offences related to it is undoubtedly a positive fact which attests that in the face of very important issues relating to the protection of the environment and consequently to the health of citizens, it is possible to overcome the divergences of the small daily political cabotage in the interests of the whole community. With the approval of the final report on 21 May, a long study, in-depth study and investigation work was concluded, which began in the last parliamentary term with activities of travel to the territories concerned and with numerous hearings of various authorities, bodies and regional associations. Umbria green heart of Italy, it is said, and the images of these days of the spectacular flowering on the Pian Grande di Castelluccio di Norcia confirms the slogan. Unfortunately, the parliamentary report shows that Italy's green heart on waste management has many worrying grey areas, and perhaps too many blacker than grey situations. I would like to point out that the final report has presented, without political derivation and without wishing to hide under the carpet, the many critical issues relating to waste and landfills, reporting the facts with clarity and plenty of information - for this reason I would like to thank the members of the Commission - so that citizens, the first recipients of this work, can be informed and thus perhaps more involved in future strategic choices on waste management; choices which, inevitably, will have to be made and which will also affect the daily activities of every Umbrian. The reading of the final report reveals, above all, a very urgent fact: a radical change of paradigm in the management of the waste cycle. An ambitious plan to phase out the current approach, based essentially on incineration and landfilling, must be set up in order to move seriously to a so-called zero waste cycle, i.e. to a circular waste economy. The situation in the six landfills of Umbria is critical, all being now close to the limit, despite the extensions granted in the past years of their waste reception capacity. In fact, the landfills of Colognola and Sant'Orsola are no longer in operation, having reached the limit of tons deposited. Since this kind of change cannot be made in a short time, but it takes several years, it is necessary to act immediately, without waiting any longer, because we are already lagging behind the European directives. They are the side effects of the so-called linear economy, based on the production of a good, its consumption and the consequent disposal. To this it is essential to strongly oppose a model of circular waste economy that goes beyond the concept of the end-of-life of matter, thus creating new businesses and thousands of jobs. This is not a utopian objective, but it is undoubtedly complex to achieve and requires the joint intervention of various actors: from the legislator to the producers, from the environmental protection agencies to the infrastructure for waste management, passing through the personnel involved in the collection and disposal. Of course, to achieve a result, even with effort and sacrifice, we need a goal and a vision. This is what is meant by the circular economy of waste: a system in which one overcomes the production-consumption-disposal path, to replace it with a circular model, where the waste product is finally put back into circulation as second raw material. Therefore, after consumption and before disposal, it is necessary to activate virtuous processes such as repair, reuse and recycling, which we must promote by slamming the door in the face of evil. Unfortunately, in Umbria the change of administration from left to right in the two main cities, both Perugia and Terni, and finally in the Region, has not changed at all the previous situation, which indeed, as highlighted in the report, is in rapid deterioration both with regard to the management of the waste cycle and the landfill injections (close to collapse), and with regard to the incineration of waste where, instead of proceeding to a progressive shutdown of the existing plants in Terni, the activation of two new incinerators in Gubbio is being planned, using the modified cement factories to burn the secondary solid fuel (CSS). If, on the one hand, the committee has established that there have been few fires at waste storage facilities, it must be pointed out that one in particular has had numerous repeated incidents over time. I mention only the last of a few days ago, an episode that has created confusion and concern among citizens, who live and cultivate in the vicinity of the company. It is yet another fire of which still today are to be ascertained the causes. It should be noted, in addition, that the report shows the situation which has still not been brought into line in Umbria with European Directive 91/271/EEC, which led to the infringement procedure, as a result of which, as from June 2018, Italy is definitively subject to the payment of significant financial penalties which apply to the whole population. The report also highlights the serious cases of environmental pollution in various areas of the region which have caused and still have a high impact, much higher than the national average in the resident population, on various cancer diseases and other diseases related to environmental pollution. Among these situations it is not possible not to mention the very serious conditions under which the Conca ternana, or the city of Terni and its territories, lies. The situation is critical as air, water and soil pollution in the SIN area creates enormous damage to those who live and work in that area. Not only industry, but also incinerators are the main cause of pollution. Equally serious is the situation in the Nestore Valley, where for many years the remaining toxic ashes of the processing of the former ENEL plant in Pietrafitta have been buried. All these areas must be subjected to emergency reclamation as soon as possible, both for the protection of the health of current and future residents, and to restore these places to their natural tourist and environmental vocation, with economic activities based on valuable crops to be exported all over the world. Ladies and gentlemen, starting to conclude, I believe that the work carried out by the Commission and approved unanimously can be the right move to change the current way of managing the waste cycle and the environment, because the green Umbria deserves to return to its natural vocation and, that is, to be the true green heart of Italy. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u197	The debate is closed. I would like to inform the House that the motion for a resolution No 1, tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators, has been tabled. I call the representative of the Government, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u198	Mr President, the Government's opinion is favourable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u199	We shall then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u200	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u201	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u202	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, as always, it is the practice that is lacking because in theory we are all absolutely exceptional. The plastic example is the intervention, with all due respect, of my colleague Pavanelli. We continue to fill landfills and separate collections by stopping at the concept of collection without at all addressing the concept of reuse. We continue to demonise the determinations of a national law, which accepts a European directive that states that waste, duly treated in its dry fraction, becomes secondary solid fuel and, therefore, is no longer waste, but fuel. This joke - I find no other term - of the "zero waste" we have been dealing with for years. It remains written only in some books and magazines, but in practice we continue to put, as I said, the monezza under the carpet. It is impossible in fact to close the cycle, because the committees are born, stimulated by those who, wanting zero waste, prevent to close it and to apply national laws, as in this case, and prevent to act correctly, with a path that sees the technology to accept the need to dispose of the waste that society produces in increasing quantities. This is an absolutely incontrovertible fact. The concept that must come to our rescue - and I speak of Umbria - is not so much that of zero waste, twenty or a thousand, but of CO2: in this Region there are six plants that produce and pump it into atmosphere (three cement plants, two power plants and an incinerator, in the city of Terni). These plants result in an overall emission evidently not produced with roses - as I usually say, because we have dealt with this topic several times - and not even with soaps, but with highly polluting materials (coal, fuel oils, spent and heavy waste processing). The cement manufacturers burn this stuff, so today in Umbria we have to deal with a necessity, to which the resolution unfortunately only mentions, but obviously it is better than nothing (and I appeal to the representative of the Government and the Ministry in this regard): we have to move to a more scientific approach and freer from pseudopolitical and metacultural conditionings. In Umbria, having already plants that use fossil fuels in a massive way, we have the possibility to replace their use with the CSS, produced according to European and national norms, through plants that must be realized and have to complete the cycle through the thermovalue of the dry residue of the virtuous path, which certainly provides important levels of separate collection, but that produce a reuse and not a new landfill. So let's stop chasing the mythologies and start to face serious problems that also affect the health and pockets of the citizens, because the tariffs continue to increase since the landfills in Umbria are no longer there, and therefore it is necessary to take the waste and bring them elsewhere, spending considerably in terms of transport, which impact on the environment, also because other regions that accept our waste apply very heavy tariffs. Enough with the theory, we take the practice seriously and we take responsible and serious choices to give Umbria and the other regions, through the Ministry - I address the representative of the Government - an integrated cycle of waste that correctly provides for the application of national and European laws. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u203	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u204	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u205	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, on the basis of the comments made in this speech, I would like to announce on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats a vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u206	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u207	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u208	Mr Ferrazzi (PD). Mr President, a lot has been said. We are dealing with a comprehensive report, which has engaged the Commission in months of work. Actually, it is a report which is also based on the work of the 17th legislature, directly and indirectly, and is a source of this. It is a report that starts from the study, from the documentation, from the dozens and dozens of meetings held in the territory, from the hearings. So it is a serious, full-bodied job, which has produced over 200 pages and has enabled the Commission to properly investigate the issue of waste management in the Umbria Region. It is a very well-structured report - I repeat - which deals directly with the Commission's matters of competence, and then, of course, indirectly, with the related ones, the more general ones of the environment, the reclamations, and so on. It is a report that highlights a leopard situation in the Umbria region; a situation that must be taken at heart first of all by the competent political authority, by the regional authority with regard to programming, by the municipal realities with regard to the management of the waste cycle, by the national reality with regard to general legislation. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have also dealt with issues relating to the judicial consequences of the current situation. Obviously it is not the task of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to replace the judiciary - and whoever imagined it would make a serious institutional and political error - but we have listened to the Forces of the Order, the magistrates and - as some colleagues have already anticipated - has emerged a picture of certainly presence of illegal phenomena, but not rooted in the level of widespread crime, as it happens in other regions of our country. There are different illicit phenomena in the territory that affix above all to very small enterprises, which, rather than subjecting themselves, rightly, to what the regulations prescribe, prefer to seek ways out and escapes, with absolutely negative consequences for the whole territory and citizens. It is a report, among other things, which, through the experience of many audits, highlights the importance of Law No 68 of 22 May 2015, the so-called law on eco-reactors, which has finally created in our legislative system a standard of reference, which allowed - and we have also seen it plastically through the Commission's data - to bring to light at least some of the illegal phenomena that remained, instead, completely buried under the carpet until the previous years. What has been the task of the Commission? As I said, it was not already to replace the judiciary but, by studying the situation, to find the best political, legislative and regulatory solutions to adequately respond to the challenges we have faced. It was a report that we voted unanimously, Mr President, and that is a very good thing. We voted unanimously, as was the case in the Commission this morning, on the report on waste collection with regard to Covid. We also gave the majority in the Group leader the favourable opinion that this report should be brought to the House: it was not for nothing, it was in the power of the group leaders, but we felt that we should do so because we believe that the Commission's work must be properly emphasized precisely because of the importance of the issues we are dealing with which - it is quite clear, Mr President - are those of the present and of the future. Environmental issues are not marginal: they are structural issues from the point of view of both containment, mitigation and adaptation to a situation of structural change in the climate, and therefore of the whole biosystem, and, consequently, of the development model. What are the issues that have emerged and which we must bring to the subject in the legislative effort, continuously with what we are already working on? First of all, we must fully integrate ourselves into the concept of circular economy. The circular economy is basically based on the need for waste reduction and the concepts of reuse and recycling. And I would add that it is also based on a secular and intelligent approach to the development of technoscience, that is, technology and science. It is quite clear, in fact, that technology and science have the possibility - for example from the point of view of the study of materials - to reduce the possibility and the consequence of the production of waste, both from the point of view of the consistency of the material as such, and of the design (eco-design). An industrial policy is also needed. If we want to reduce waste and, above all, recycle it, we must have a coherent plant policy. This is not always diffused, indeed it is not at all homogeneous in the territory; also in the report on the Umbria Region a certain difficulty has emerged, to which of course it must be answered. We must then implement a serious programming policy, and we say it with transparency. The Regional Councils and the Regional Councils did some things, but they could do others better. Of course, the challenge now is another political one, but since we are a cross-cutting institutional committee, we must all try to do the best we can and encourage each other to do so. Above all, we must build a vision of future and sustainability, understanding that the real challenge of environmental transition is not a question of niche, but it is the challenge of tomorrow, because through it passes not only the concept of sustainability of the environment and society, but also that of sustainability tout court from the economic point of view. It is therefore a report which we support, Mr President. It is a report that we have unanimously signed, which takes on board the report that we have built during the various months of work and that we are convinced, in the agreement and in the willingness of all, that it can really become an important material to put us in a position to make the best laws for our territory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u209	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u210	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u211	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Government, we have voted for this report in the Commission and we approve the type of resolution that has been imagined. We must, however, reiterate and stress certain aspects. I start with the issue of illegal activities related to the waste cycle. Those who have had the patience to read the report will have seen a picture that was critical. However, I want to use a temporal form in the past, because this report has been prepared following actions and inspections that mostly covered the first part of 2019, before the majority change within the Umbria Region. Anyone who has had the patience to read the report will have seen that, despite the difficulties, good things have been done. First of all, I would like to remind this House, particularly the people who are interested in these issues, of the statement which the President of the Gesenu wanted to leave, through what was his work. We are talking about a person who has been chosen by the public partner, that is, the Municipality of Perugia; it is precisely - I would like to remind you here - Dr Wladimiro De Nunzio, former deputy attorney general at the Court of Cassation and president of the court of appeal of Perugia, who has carried out a careful work of reorganization of the company, allowing the Gesenu to move from a situation in which he had anti-mafia interditives to the white list. I believe that this deserves a mention, with reference to what has been done and taken on board, taking into account the general picture. There is another aspect: the report notes that landfills cannot continue to go on in the same way, because of a problem of capacity; a problem that has been dictated by inadequate regional planning, because - if I recall correctly - the last regional plan dates back to 2009 and therefore has arrived very tired, from this point of view, as is said in the same report. This cannot be the case, because separate collection reaches 66 percent. So there is a perspective reasoning: that is, we have a relationship that takes pictures of the existing and certainly takes into account some progress made by some administrations, but it serves to photograph what was there and, of course, to constitute a background for what has to be and will be done. I would also like to say a few words about this, because our vote will be in favour, precisely because we look to the future, that is to say to what the new regional administration has decided to do. The previous speaker said that we have a description of a situation that the competent authority, Region in the first place, needs. The Region of this situation has taken note and has identified five fundamental objectives: the closure of the cycle (there must be a 10% percentage with regard to landfills), self-sufficiency (waste must be managed in Umbria), health protection, environmental protection and finally economic management, with particular reference to costs. On this point, on behalf of the current regional administration, the vice-president as well as councillor for the environment have certainly been very clear in identifying a strategic perspective not limited to a few years, but that has a strategic development horizon of at least ten or fifteen years. I repeat, therefore, that this report has its importance, it is dated precisely over time, but it supports the choices that have been made, because in order to arrive at a new regional programming, technical and scientific contribution will be necessary. In this sense the Junta has moved, with the identification of a technical-scientific committee, that sees the participation of the University and the Park 3A, through which to arrive to reformulate the regional plan of the waste before the second half of 2021 and therefore take the consequent choices. This is the reason why we look forward and not back and we urge us to vote in favour of the report, which will be unanimous, because the intention is to avoid that in a small region like Umbria there may be, for waste, problems related to judicial affairs rather than to a real management of governance of the matter. That is why we will be voting in favour of this document, looking forward, appreciating the lines that already took note of the situation, applied in the past, but certainly characteristics of the new regional administration. Of course, there will also be the photograph taken from the work of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the illicit activities related to the waste cycle. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u212	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u213	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u214	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to ask for some patience, given the subject that I have to deal with myself, and not just as a Umbrian. The report not only summarises an important and in-depth work, which all my colleagues have called for and involved the Commission from February to April last year, but analyses in depth the more than 4,000 pages we have received, all the shorthands and everything we have seen. It is the conclusion of a path that starts first, from 2015, when with a lightning to heaven serene, the prefect of Perugia issued an interdictative anti-mafia for Gesenu and related companies. While we were all looking at the risk that organized crime might have landed in Umbria - in fact it was a related company and the facts not strictly related to Umbria - a regional committee of inquiry on the maintenance of the waste system began. While everyone expected to find something coming from other regions, a Pandora's box opened; a Pandora's box that led Umbria to be in a certain sense the protagonist of a film that is being stabbed, taken to the hospital and, fortunately, thanks to the stabbing, discovers that he has a cancer that still does not give symptoms, but is devouring it and then intervenes. That regional committee of inquiry, which was tried to close as soon as possible, and which was given only four months, also followed the request for the opening of an inquiry by the bicameral committee of inquiry into the echoes of the previous legislature. I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Candiani, who has a certain effect in calling me that at this moment, and Senator Arrigoni, who started an initial investigation in the 17th legislature, interested in the landfill Le Crete, Valnestore and Gesenu. But what is minimized today, saying that all in all there are no infiltrations from other regions, is all local raw material - allow me the joke - and from my point of view it does not serve to diminish, but to accentuate still what has emerged and should make us all reflect. In fact, there is no territory that is immune and there are no regions of origin that can be pointed out. No one can feel any greater than the risk that the waste, unfortunately on the skin of health and the environment, is not enough for someone to eat. Well, that minimize, the thinking of small companies is hard with what emerges not only from the report, but also from the shorthand reports that I will quote. Everything that emerged was a bit like Watergate: in that case it took three years, here we shouted for three years and finally today we establish a point, a factual truth reported in the papers tells a story. Then, in his hearing, the director of Auri, sub-area no. 3 and 4, he was not afraid and ashamed to declare: We talk very often about the sole manager also in Umbria, then the experiences show us that instead, the managers increase. As a matter of fact, tenders are launched with a vehicle company that consortia all existing ones. If before there were three or four managers, made the race, the managers become one more, that is the consortium company that has grouped all. This, I assure you, creates diseconomies, creates great problems on management because the interlocutor is never one, but they always become all those who... And then it goes on "We launch a competition, we collect all the managers present in the territory, we put them in charge of a new company, so we add even an extra management cost, and in fact everyone remains to manage where he was. It's not a race, or at least it's a fake race, and everyone stays where he was. Competition, in this way, goes to be blessed. I specifically asked...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u215	I apologize, Senator Briziarelli. I don't mean to interrupt you at all. Of course, only you can know that in relation to the Presidency: are these public stenographies?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u216	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u217	Please continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u218	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, President. It was my failure not to specify that everything I will say concerns the public part of the investigation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No problem, thank you. BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). In one of the questions that I asked the doctor I asked if for the description made and the definition given, it could be claimed that the race that saw participate exclusively GEST, that collects precisely TSA, Gesenu, SIA, Ecocave, and that it has returned in fact the service technically to the same societies in the same territorial areas that they managed, by definition it could be considered a fake race. Well, the answer was: false was a term not confidential, but not technical. But the norm allows it, if the norm were to change and say that it can be done differently... So it was actually a yes. So it wasn't just any small subject, but a well-established system, so much so that the deputy prosecutor Valentina Manuali in auditioned while, first of all: According to my experience, the phenomenon in Umbria of these organized activities aimed at the unlawful treatment of waste is quite important and relevant. In the past, no particular attention had been paid to the phenomenon, but in recent years, since 2015, when I was a member of the anti-mafia district management, I have verified that there has been a greater impulse also from the police forces, so situations that in the past had not been fully adhered to by the judicial authority have emerged. I remember D.A. De Ficchy saying that there's no shortage of felonies, but the news of felony. So this is the picture. For the sake of time I will mention only some of the most emblematic cases: in the same hearing, the deputy prosecutor said that it emerged that, again in the plant of Pietra Melina, 380,000 tons over five years have been fictitiously recovered, but in reality they were disposed directly to landfill simulating biostabilization and composting treatments that were not carried out. This involved a high production of leachate and concentrate in turn disposed of illegally, also leading to the formation of sacks of leachate in the landfill, resulting in environmental damage. It has even emerged (but this until 2013) that parts of the leachate scraps were placed directly in the Mussino stream through the opening of a sarachinesca. In other words, the company had created a saracinesca suitable for this function; it was not some unfaithful employee or a small aziendina, but a real system on one of the largest treatment plants and this was reported by the employees. The deputy prosecutor continues by saying that in this context: All contracts have been examined, a large amount of invoices has been examined and there has been precisely the detection of tax offences, the contestation of fraud and also fraud for public supplies. What is the point of fraud in public supply? These companies were not one, but a network of companies that had to treat waste in a certain way and therefore had signed contracts, in fact they treated waste in a completely different way. Absolutely unjustified charges were paid and much higher than those that should have been required for this absolutely inadequate treatment of waste. Basically the fees paid were for bio-stabilization, therefore for a much more complex treatment of the waste and not for the landfilling that emerged. In fact, the phenomenon is quite significant. We are talking about tens of millions of euros paid by citizens and the municipalities themselves have been the victims. Of course, then it should be said that the municipalities entrusted the subscription and control of the Bear cards (Supraregional Waste Observatory) to the same managing company, then controller and controlled coincided in the same subject. Indeed, as I have mentioned, the fact that this situation of unlawful treatment has obviously lasted for this considerable number of years has only been possible because of the lack of adequate control. This is what happened in Umbria. In fact, this treatment system has been managed by both the Region and the Province in a way that is sometimes very superficial and confusing; for this reason in this situation it was very difficult to identify relevant behaviors from the criminal point of view. I would like to stress that it is not that there were none, but it was not even possible to identify the subject, the person to whom they were attributed. Starting at the conclusion given the narrowness of the times, in front of all this the even more serious thing is that for years the Region has not only moved forward the goal of separate collection. Let's think of a given, I quote only one: 65 percent of separate collection in the 2009 waste plan, the only one still available to the Region, was set for 2012 and in 2019 we witnessed triumphalistic announcements of the junta that he said he had reached - then it was not true - that goal with seven years of delay. Well, despite this the then President has not been able to explain why to a municipality in particular, the Municipality of Perugia (but I could mention others), granted in 2013 (it is public data that I hope can be deepened also elsewhere) a contribution behind the declaration of having reached the coverage of 73 percent of the population of separate collection and at the same session declared that the Municipality of Perugia - with a changed majority - has not reached the goal. Of the two: did we make an unnecessary contribution or have we unfairly accused a municipal administration in the Commission of the eco-reactors? In the face of all this, everyone can tell a little bit of truth, but the whole truth is in the integral relationship that reports the data. We cannot, however, look only at the past. What we are asking the Government today is a single commitment, which can be true for Terni, but for all the rest of Italy: citizens cannot pay for the failure to clean up a polluted area. At this moment, by law, the municipalities in deficit or failure, while having resources to clean up an environment, to protect the health of citizens and the environment itself, cannot use them. I have already tabled an amendment on this and I hope that there can be a government initiative, a joint initiative, to give the opportunity to accelerate. Three more proposals for the future. Simplifications: I talked about races, we try not to complicate them, to make them transparent and honest beyond the complication. This is something that can be done absolutely already in the simplification decree. If we could already guarantee this, not complex rules that do not protect and do not guarantee honesty, but simple and clear rules that facilitate everything, and available resources to spend, we would have done a service to our citizens regardless of the political color. On this intention, we will vote in favour and I apologise to my colleagues too if I have warmed up a bit today, but it is because I cared about the report and my land, as I am sure they care about their own. One region at a time - I don't want Senator Grimani, but we started from Umbria precisely because the regional elections were far away, we couldn't imagine that they would arrive sooner - we can find a solution for everyone, in the interests of the citizens. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u219	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u220	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u221	TRENTACOSTE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to vote on the resolution resulting from the conclusions of the Commission of Inquiry into the waste cycle relating to the Umbria Region. The resolution has been the subject of careful and sometimes concerted mediation between the members of the bicameral committee, the Senate Environment Commission and my colleagues in the Umbrian Parliament, whom I thank. Already during the XVII legislature, a deepening on the Umbria Region highlighted critical and illegal management of waste disposal. Following that work, the current Commission of Inquiry carried out specific on-the-spot missions which focused on the situation of the waste cycle, in particular on landfills in the Region, on the state of the protection of water, also in view of certain specific reports, on important issues of the territory, as well as on the need for prevention against illegal phenomena. The criticalities of the Umbrian waste cycle are synthesized in poor quality of the separate collection and consequent waste of the eligible waste, lack of plant for the treatment after collection of the dry fractions and oversize of that destined to the management of the wet fraction, excess of fraction conferred in landfill. The situation needs to evolve with a view to closing the waste cycle in line with the European principles of the circular economy. Another issue addressed is the protection of water. Three of the five Umbrian agglomerations covered by the 2014/2059 infringement procedure, as reported by the Commissioner for purification, are not yet in conformity, a fact not to be underestimated, but to be amended with a serious coordination between all those responsible. A widespread problem on part of the Umbrian territory is the presence of chlorinated solvents in a layer, a historical consequence of the surface treatment of metals in particular production areas, which deserves to be monitored, given the carcinogenic nature of those compounds. The specific question is the pollution of the groundwater underneath the production plants of the Terni Special Steels, on which acquisitions of the Commission call for extreme attention from the public administrations, the control bodies and the Ministry of the Environment, with the coordination of all the competent subjects. In the context of the investigation, the issue of mercury contamination of the river Paglia emerged, the resolution of which requires more complex action at interregional level and, in particular, the reclamation of the abandoned mining sites in Tuscany and the possible impact on the water basins of Lazio. The Commission therefore intends to further investigate this issue with a special investigation. The framework examined does not reveal any current links with organised crime. The follow-up activities show that the environmental offences found are mainly committed by local small and medium-sized enterprises which, as is sometimes the case, assess sanctions as a feasible risk in relation to the costs of proper treatment and disposal of waste. However, more institutional audit entities consider this situation to have positively evolved thanks to the effects of Law No. 68 of 22 May 2015, as mentioned by Senator Ferrazzi. A framework, therefore, which does not identify organized systems of illegal management, but which nevertheless requires constant monitoring, primarily by the ARPA, to which adequate resources must be allocated. Illegal management and the international trafficking of waste from electrical and electronic equipment are an object of examination by the Commission in a specific investigation and will therefore be the subject of further development in the context of thematic analysis. Of particular importance is the environmental situation of the conca ternana, the vast area included between the Municipalities of Terni and Narni, whose geophysical conformation and climatic conditions favor the accumulation of pollutants in the atmosphere and, as said, in the soils and surface waters: not to mention the case of SIN Terni Papigno. Neither the prefects nor other audits reported severe criticalities arising from the reconstruction after the earthquake in August 2016, as regards the matters dealt with by the Commission. The hearings of the magistrates of the prosecutors of the Republic of Perugia, Terni and Spoleto and the documentation provided offer an overall framework of judicial activity that shows attention on environmental issues, attested in the efforts of organizational adaptation of the offices, by methods of investigation that have been unnecessarily lowered in the reality and criticality of the territories, by relevant investigations, carried out and ongoing. In this situation, it is up to the public authorities and the judicial authorities to maintain constant control of the situation, on the basis of scientific data allowing corrective action and the detection of any pathologies related to environmental pollution. The work carried out by the Commission in Umbria shows that individual illegal facts should not be underestimated and this confirms that the most effective prevention of these phenomena and the correct management and planning to which the Umbria Region is called is that of control, which is the responsibility of the ARPA. Colleagues, the unanimous approval of the final report on Umbria by the Committee of Inquiry into the Waste Cycle is a positive fact, which underlines that the institutions, in the face of the issue of environmental protection and public health, are able to face up to each other. That is why I feel that I am stigmatizing any controversy that has arisen here about the Commission's findings. I hope that the judiciary, in due place, will establish facts and responsibilities. The final report showed that there are many problems with waste management as well as water treatment, but how the authorities responsible for land control and surveillance are active in the repression of environmental crimes. In concluding, thanking the members of the Commission for their work, I would like to stress that only a virtuous circular economy, based on the principles of waste reduction, re-use of objects and recycling of raw materials and second, can have a positive impact on the future management of the territory and its finite resources, such as water, restoring a correct relationship with the environment and landscape, reducing the costs of the health system and improving the quality of life, returning Umbria to be the green heart of Italy, as Senator Pavanelli said. For these reasons, and with this wish, I therefore announce, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Stars, the vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u222	I put to the vote motion for a resolution No 1, tabled by Senator Briziarelli and other senators. It's approved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u223	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u224	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u225	PIARULLI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you today in this House that Sunday 12 July marks the anniversary of the railway disaster on the Barletta-Bari route. Four years have passed since that terrible day, when some moments have lasted an eternity: tears, stunned looks and gruesome images of twisted sheets. At 11 a.m. on 12 July 2016, two local trains collided along the Bari-Barletta railway line, in the countryside between Andria station and Corato station, where 23 people died and 51 were wounded. It was one of the most serious Italian accidents, involving young people, students, workers and commuters, being a route that connected the capital of Bari with large urban centers (Andria, Corato and Bitonto). At the time of the accident, the two trains were located along a section of a single railroad where the telephone block was used, i.e. the stationmasters of the various stations made a phone call to confirm that the line was free and then authorize the convoy to leave. This means that no computerised blocking system had been set up in 2016 to allow automatism of free track signals. The most absurd thing that seems to emerge is that there had already been other episodes that could have touched the tragedy between 2003 and 2015, putting at risk the safety of the passengers and employees all. Today the immense pain of the families of the victims remains and the inconveniences still existing between the commuters, as the work of doubling the track has not yet been completed. As Saint Augustine said, "those who have left us are not absent, they are only invisible: they keep their eyes full of glory pointed in our tears." I therefore want to appeal to justice to take its course in fast times and, at the same time, to ensure that constant checks are made on all railway lines in order to prevent these tragedies in which they lose the lives of the innocent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u226	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u227	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u228	BRUZZONE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking as Ligurian, like Mr Ripamonti and Mrs Pucciarelli, to point out the difficulties that have now become insurmountable in our region. A while ago there was the problem of the bridge, which we discussed for a long time, also adopting a special law. Today the situation is more serious than before, because they have been activated of the activities of maintenance of the highways that have led to the almost total freezing of the traffic in our Region, moreover in a period of strong interest, given the tourist peculiarity of our Region. We're practically isolated and kidnapped inside our streets. In some cases, on the highway, you travel at one kilometer per hour. Well, on 29 May last, the Ministry considered it appropriate to change the parameters of maintenance and inspection to the structures and, consequently, we do not know, still today, how long the work will last. The endurance of the Ligurians has reached the limit: we can no longer do it. We can no longer be kidnapped, but we can no longer bear a government that is unable to decide on a Grunda. [[Applause]] that, if there had been then and if it had not been stopped by the left Ligurians, perhaps it would have also avoided the catastrophe and the serious problem of the Morandi bridge. A government act would be enough to free the Grunda, but in the simplification decree we see only complications, not to simplify but to complicate and not to do what we need. And now a fresh news has arrived, which is why I ask to intervene at the end of the session: Minister De Micheli writes to the mayor of Genoa that the bridge will be entrusted to ASPI. Immediately a Deputy Minister of the 5 Stars says that this thing will not be done and this attitude of the Government risks to extend further the opening of a bridge that, thanks to the intervention of the then Deputy Minister Rixi, President Toti and Mayor Bucci, has been rebuilt so quickly. If the government were to cause even a minute's delay in opening the Morandi bridge due to internal rifts, the Ligurians will not only remember the great difficulties and inconveniences but will charge you with all your responsibilities, dear friends of the Government. It's a region on its knees that can't take it anymore. If you intend to continue to massacre the economy of our Region, have the Minister of Infrastructure the courage to come to the House to say it, to say what is the government's position on Autostrade, what is the government's position on the Grunda, what is the government's position on the tunnel of Fontanabuona. They are works that are there, ready to be done, but for which the inability and especially the rifts within the majority are creating insurmountable problems and are destroying us. [[Applause]] I conclude with this request that perhaps I should not move forward at this time: let the government come and say what its position is and let Minister De Micheli stop coming to Liguria to inaugurate bike paths: the problems are others, they are not the bike paths! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u229	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-237.ana.u230	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 9 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.11 a.m.
