ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u3	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Sea, the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and the Minister for Public Administration will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Laniece has the right to explain the question 3-01642 on the recent regional laws of the Valle d'Aosta in the field of landfills, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u4	Mr President, Minister, the regional laws of the Autonomous Region of Valle d'Aosta were challenged. 1 and 3, of 11 February 2020, because they consider it detrimental to the State's environmental prerogatives. The legislative intervention takes note of the presence in the Region of plants already suitable to guarantee, albeit without any obligation to supply, the disposal of waste produced within the Region and aims to avoid the proliferation of new landfills that, for more reason, if not all the special waste produced in the Region itself should be disposed of in the nearest disposal facility from the place of production, would encourage the import of waste from outside the Region. The free movement of special waste, which legislative intervention does not wish to hinder in any way, is very different from encouraging, through a planning of waste management that does not take into account the characteristics of the territory, the import of such waste, in many cases coming from places of production very far from the disposal plant. Regional legislative intervention focuses on two aspects. First of all, it preserves - which we believe is respectful of state legislation - the receptive capacity of discharges already in operation and provides that the Region discourages the construction and use of new landfills for the delivery of special waste from other regions. The ratio of the modification, in line with the needs of the territory, is to adapt the number of landfills to our alpine territory. The second aspect concerns tariff differentiation: if, on the one hand, the realization of other plants would be destined to respond to an exogenous offer, on the other hand, a lack of tariff differentiation, with reference to this specific type of waste (special non-dangerous waste) would generate, as happened in recent years, a significant imbalance between the volumes of waste delivered products in the territory and in other regions, putting at risk the capacity of the plants themselves. Given, finally, that in my region the awareness of environmental protection and of the territory is increasingly present in the population, as is shown by the birth of town councils in the Val d'Aosta increasingly concerned about the opening of new landfills, and that the Region has worked with these laws to try to accept the demands of the citizens, it is asked to know whether the President of the Council of Ministers and Ministers in address, in particular you, Minister Costa, are in any way willing to verify the compatibility of the laws, starting a dialogue with the regional administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u5	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Laniece because he raises a very timely and interesting issue and I would like to explain it. In fact, the regional rule, to which Senator Laniece refers, talks about landfilling non-dangerous waste which is essentially inert in this case. Compared to the rule that we have considered to be in violation of Law No 549 of 1995, we have started, with two correspondences of 23 and 27 March of the current year, a possible reformulation with the regional body. This rewording, however, has not been successful in relation to the difference in taxes that the same law of 1995, which I referred to, does not allow the regional competence to be assigned, leaving it to state competence, so much so that we support before the Constitutional Court the violation of Articles 3, 41 and 120 of the Constitution. In any case, this is not the technical aspect that accompanies my speech, but rather the willingness to find a possible solution - which I appreciate very much and for which I thank you - regardless of the judgment before the Constitutional Court, which will take its course. I am therefore pleased with the availability shown and, indeed, I ask Senator Laniece if he kindly wants to help us, without prejudice, of course, to the competence of Minister Boccia with regard to relations with the Regions - to rebuild a rule that goes in the acceptable direction, in compliance with the constitutional norm.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u6	I give the floor to Senator Laniece to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u7	Minister, thank you for your willingness to reach a new address with the Region. For the time being, therefore, I am satisfied.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u8	Senator Beginini has the right to explain the question 3-01648 on the promotion of sustainable mobility in cities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u9	Mr President, Minister, the social distancing measures we are all subject to obviously involve a number of obligations which have seen the use of local public transport reduced, especially in large cities and cities with integrated systems. Well, the climate decree-law, which we converted into Law 141 last December, provided for a measure called the experimental programme fund - good mobility, which allocated EUR 70 million for sustainable mobility or for public transport which, as we said, cannot be fully used this year. The 70 million are covered by green auctions; there is no time, Mr President, to explain to opposition members that this money cannot be used for cash-integration or other measures, but it is bound to sustainable mobility. The decree-law relaunched stimulates sustainable mobility using the 70 million euros of this fund and integrating them with another 50 million, for a total of 120 million, for the purchase of bicycles, bicycles with assisted pedaling, electric scooters and other tools of sustainable micro mobility, which this majority and this Government have already favoured in other measures. The bonus covers 60 percent of the purchase fee, up to a maximum of 500 euros. A decree of the Minister, in agreement with the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, will define how to obtain this benefit. The measures briefly outlined are part of the plan aimed at combating climate change and the incentives for sustainable mobility can surely meet the lower use of local public transport that we will face. These measures can reduce pollution, improve air quality and benefit all citizens. It is also a measure that is already experiencing some success, from what we can perceive from the dialogues with the citizens but also with the local administrators, beyond, clearly, the other needs that the country and the workers have. I would ask you, Minister, if you do not consider it appropriate, apart from what Parliament will be able to do in the process of converting the decree-law, to increase the resources for this measure. I would ask you, however, what measures are being taken to avoid a potential click day, so that, on the day when access to the bonus is finally made available, the ceiling will not be exhausted. Finally, I would like to ask you what further action you have in mind to take in order to better promote sustainable mobility. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator. Indeed, the measure to which he referred is very favorable: the Italians are making the queues in front of the bicycle dealers to buy them and this gives me, as Minister, great satisfaction. This means not only that the measure is an economic aid to an Italian production - let us not forget that we are the world's second largest manufacturers of bicycles and the world's first exporters, with 20,000 employees and more than 3,250 between outlets and producers, with an ancient tradition and passion - but also that there is a different way of conceiving sustainable mobility, especially in large cities, in full agreement with the act to get out of the violation of air quality signed by the Government in the climate dialogue with the European Union, which I believe is fundamental. Senator Beginini, rightly said that there is a problem of resources. We have allocated EUR 120 million. Those coming from green auctions could not be aimed at anything else, even if they knew that there are so many difficulties in Italy. I have recovered - I say this in a pedestal way - an additional 70 million to be added to the 120 already allocated. I ask Parliament - and I am pleased that you have asked me with this question - to help me further in this regard, because I have no other than these 70 million. The measures are very welcome and it is right to imagine sustainable mobility, so if Parliament, in rewording the conversion of the decree-law into law, will help us in this respect, we will be able to do even more from this point of view. We have commissioned Sogei, which is a company of the MEF, to decline the bonus for the citizen who buys. They assured us that with a virtual system of so-called computer camera (I am not an expert in computer science) there will be no problem of click day. Among other things, I tell you that the implementing decree has already been sent, for the so-called concert, to the MEF, the MIT and the MISE, that since this morning we are stressful, in the best sense of the term, to see approved the text immediately. Therefore, we are proceeding quickly within the limits of the routes provided for in the norm. In the light of all these considerations, it is a norm that, in my opinion, really is good for Italy and, among other things, it is really doing the world around, because so many are thanking us and they want to copy it. Moreover, we have also allocated additional resources on other routes: little more than EUR 300 million for bicycle paths in the municipalities and for cycling; therefore, to be able to structure a different system. I also add, and finish, the initiative, with Minister De Micheli, of the amendment of the Road Code, which also allows us greater safety on the road without going into competition between those who use the bike, whatever the model, a Segway or other than the driver. Clearly, you don't go against anyone, but it's a different way of conceiving your relationship with your cities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u11	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Beginini for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u12	Minister, I believe you have answered my question. I understand that, in addition to the 120 million allocated, there are 70 of them ready to be invested again, as well as what Parliament will still be able to do with the amendments to the relaunch decree. You know how important it is for Italy Long live the topic of sustainable mobility and how much we have committed ourselves, and we will continue to do so. In addition to this kind of contribution, it is important to work also on the issue of cycling networks, urban and interurban, because the increase in the number of people who will use sustainable mobility and a sustainable medium needs an adaptation of our cycling network. We are doing so, with the extraordinary measures always adopted in the decree-law relaunch, which allow the mayors to urgently track emergency bikes, but we must also do so by implementing the resources in favour of these investments. I'm glad to hear there are other resources available from the Ministry. I say to my colleagues that we could evaluate the use of the discount instrument in the conversion of the decree, in order to anticipate resources that the budget law for this year has already foreseen, always to encourage the creation of new bikes, but from 2022 to 2024. However, these are important figures: EUR 50 million per year for three years is EUR 150 million, which allows several kilometres of bike paths to be built, to be precise, 3 thousand kilometres of urban bikes. So, if we succeed, even with these interventions to update future resources, we could really help the municipalities and the people who make this choice, in order to be able to stimulate in a serious way sustainable mobility in our country. Without adequate infrastructure, it is difficult then, in the long run, to grow the development of this mode. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u13	Senator Ruspandini has the right to explain the question 3-01643 on the procedures for reclamation of sites of national interest, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u14	Minister, you are well aware that there are about 300 Italian municipalities that fall within the perimeter of the perimeter of the SIN, the sites of national interest. There is too little talk in Italy of SIN or only when some courageous journalist reports at national level what happens at local level, that is the dozens of demonstrations, spontaneous and not, the flourishing of associations that implore the institutions, governments, regions to do something, to provide for that reclamation which has been heard for years. It happens in Venice, as in Taranto, as in Campania, its land, as in Sicily and the Sacco Valley, the SIN that I know best because I live in those areas. I believe that on the site of national interest (SIN) we will have to make a serious reflection because the SIN strongly affect the lives of our communities. On the one hand, therefore, there are all those who expect something to happen with regard to this process of savage deindustrialization that massacres our areas also from the point of view of the health emergency and, on the other, we see the municipalities that are unable to manage their territory. There is no possibility of planning because of regulations that refer to higher bodies. All this puts a strain on our municipalities, which are unable to plan and promote employment and development. From the point of view of companies it is even worse, because entrepreneurs who fall back into the SIN do not have the possibility of being able to undertake and do business as can be done in other parts. Therefore, they close or relocate. Minister, in the light of this tragedy that has impacted our economy - I am referring to coronavirus - I wonder whether it is not appropriate to proceed towards a concrete deburocratization, towards a real simplification of norms and laws that risk killing our economy in the municipalities that fall within the SIN.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u15	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u16	Mr President, Senator Ruspandini, you have taken a very significant step. Indeed, sites of national interest are still an unsolved problem. I say that very frankly. They are not, in large part, so-called bureaucratic reasons and, in fact, bureaucratic stumbling blocks. I say this in these terms because they cross the whole of Italy, as you rightly said, and do not belong to one Region rather than another. I take the political point of reference from your question. In the next Decree-Law simplification we can do an interesting job. I have already sketched out, as a Ministry and as a legislative office, a series of possible simplifications that I will submit to Parliament in a very secular way. I say that very frankly. I am pleased that Parliament will be able to suggest further simplifications. Let me give a few concrete examples: contingency times; allow, where there is already a part of the reclamation already done in the SIN and other parts still to be done for technical reasons, to be able to free that part already, which is now not possible to do. I am perhaps - I am sorry the term improper - technical banality, but they solve concrete problems. This is a simplification for me, without prejudice to the need for safe work. This is out of the question. I had prepared a list, and I think of all the hydraulic systems, the hydraulic risk, the service supplies, photovoltaics or energy (which could be done with parceling) or the evaluation of the CSR-CFN, which instead are not done now and often are done even where there is no need in the form of preventive characterizations, just out of fear. In my opinion, we cannot deal with this in the simplification decree-law. I believe that the problem belongs to Parliament and not to a governing body. It belongs to everyone because it is a cross-cutting problem throughout Italy and only in this way can we obtain a standard of the system and not a standard that is only contingent. I appreciate what you say in connection with Covid-19, but I see it as a system rule that goes far beyond and takes the opportunity of simplification. Thank you for putting your attention to a delicate subject that touches, as you said, the lives of so many people.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u17	Senator Ruspandini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u18	Mr President, I too am pleased that this assessment can be found in you, who is the Minister and oversees the government of these processes so impacting on the lives of our communities. We are willing to cooperate, provided that the norms contain elements of great novelty regarding the problem, otherwise we risk talking to each other, to read the usual proclamations that we see also on the website of the Ministry - and I regret it - but in fact nothing arrives on the territories. However, I thank you and hope that a new phase can be launched. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u19	Senator Nugnes has the right to explain the question 3-01644 on the Government's commitments to combat pollution for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is a solid scientific literature which makes a correlation between the incidence of viral infections with atmospheric leachate concentrations and which has become a common heritage. We all know how much pollution affects our health and not just the health of the planet. In fact, the areas most affected are those where there is a greater concentration of plant, even with great environmental impact. This discovery, however, is not recent. It's been known for many years. The European environmental agency has been telling us for a long time: in 2013 430,000 deaths were recorded only in Europe and Italy 80,000 deaths. This also has a very important economic impact, because the primary sectors of production and transformation have natural capitalist costs not evaluated for a total of 7.3 trillion dollars. These impacts are mainly due to greenhouse gases for 38%, water use for 25%, land use - waterproofing and loss of ecosystem services - for 24%, air pollution for 7%. Of course, the coronavirus pandemic is due to environmental degradation, pollution, deforestation and the expansion of agriculture and industrial breeding. We all know that. And yet, forgive me, Minister, because I know that you are aware of this, we have not yet seen the study of the long-awaited great environmental plan of rebirth. Where is the great environmental rebirth plan? We listened yesterday to the President-in-Office of the Council but I did not hear him mention it. 80 billion were invested, but there was no differentiation between environmentally sustainable businesses and others. We have not cared that this made the difference, while we hear about building allowances, derogations from contracts and again about the relaunch of large works untied by the protections entrusted by bodies dealing with cultural and environmental goods. We also want to know what will be done with all this disposable, which you yourself said was not necessary at this stage, with all these plastics and personal protective devices. The Turin Polytechnic says that in a single month a billion masks, 456 million gloves, two million thermometers and 250,000 headphones are produced. When do we start the recovery of this material that already invades our seas? And then, forgive me, investment in public transport cannot be offset by incentives. We need a massive investment in this sector because we cannot hope that private cars will still be used for space. Then we must also see what the Government intends to do with the SAD (harmful environmental subsidies) because it has made a commitment to Parliament, and to the revision of the PNIEC (Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate). Forgive me, Minister, you know this: this plan is not enough for the objectives we must give ourselves and for the current evidence to our attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u21	The Minister for the Environment and Protection of the Territory and the Sea, General Costa, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u22	Mr President, I thank Senator Nugnes. There are a lot of questions. I will try quickly to answer within the limits of the given time. The senator referred to the relationship between the virus and pollution. There are researches on this, now also accredited, but they are still in the so-called technical phase of the no paper. Therefore we are increasing this type of research, having reached an agreement between the Higher Institute of Health and the ISPRA SNPA, to study the level of air pollution in relation to the Covid effect. Similarly, we conduct another research, with the Higher Institute of Health, ISPRA SNPA and ENEA, on pollution dynamics during the lockdown period, with particular reference to what you, Senator Nugnes, said about greenhouse gases. These researches have already started (we started them already a few months), and of course there is a technical time. We are waiting for the researchers identified by the state - the three most qualified institutions in the specific field - to give us the answer to be able to act. It is clear that we are talking about science in this case, but we are already moving. With regard to what you, Senator, referred to on the PNIEC, which then has an effect on the whole world of combating climate change, we deposited - as the rule provides - at 31 December the National Energy and Climate Plan with a 40% cut. However, we have already established in the Council of Environment Ministers of the European Union that, as soon as the European Union's entire geography is deposited the forecast for the European Union's impact study by Commissioner Sinkevičius in September of this year, by the end of the year we will have to identify the so-called target target, within a scissor that, to date, provides for a cut of between 50% and 55% of the emissions of climate-related gases. It is clear that once this figure is established, all the countries of the European Union will have to review their PNIECs, including Italy, which, among other things, has taken the leadership position in this direction, because it is the first signatory, together with France and Spain (but there are not only three of us), of the letter to Timmermans asking to make soon, to have the data by September and the new target by the end of the year. This is the path we're taking. I am absolutely opposed - and you know this - to the logic of the condones; you made this reference, and you find me absolutely opposed. The threshold for environmental protection is a threshold which we politically regard as insurmountable, but if it were ever crossed, it would lead us to European infringement. Therefore, if anyone ever thought they wanted to cross it, it would make no sense from this point of view, because we would call ourselves outside the European Union, because they are thresholds established not only by Italy, but by European environmental law. On the masks and gloves there is an important distinction to make. What is surgical, medical use, which has the path provided for by the decree of the President of the Republic n. 254 of 2003, is already well identified. As for everything that is not sanitary, but is of family use - I use this expression - that can be a tissue like what I have at the moment, for example, we try to use it in our families as it is washable and sanifiable at home. This means that they can be used for ten to fifteen times per person and are washable, which means that each person in an average of one month uses two or up to three, so they are not immediately thrown. We then reached agreements with Federfarma, the large distribution, the ANCI and with the Polieco consortium to be able to collect them even in front of the pharmacies, where there are problems, especially in the big cities where unfortunately we see that they are thrown to the ground. On the one hand, we are making a training and information plan - I am thinking of advertising progress - and, on the other, we are also setting up a system that will help the citizen to choose where to dump his or her waste. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Nugnes has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u23	Minister, I know your plan, which you have also come to explain in the bicameral committee of inquiry into the illegal activities related to the waste cycle, the need to consider masks and all devices as hazardous urban waste to be collected at pharmacies. However, this system has not started and we are already extremely late on the point. I am also pleased that we will be able to review the Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate (PNIEC), but I must say that there is no good research, in a deterministic way, of the cause-effect on the consequences of pollution because there are already solid scientific studies that demonstrate this. We know that deforestation, for example, has caused the approach of animals first alien to the anthropic habitat, and this has certainly produced a mixture that should not have existed. We know the effects of the transformation and environmental impact that we have had in the past because we are vetted from a pandemic, which resolved before and faster than SARS (probably we will have to face others). Therefore, I would have liked to see you alongside the President-in-Office of the Council with a plan to relaunch the environment, because we have to be aware of this and we had to start from it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u24	Senator Laus has the right to explain the question 3-01647 on the arrangements for granting the supplementary fund by way of derogation, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister, with this question we are expressing for the second time concerns about the timing of the discharge of the payments of the supplementary fund by way of derogation. I say for the second time because already the procedure provided for in the decree-law care Italy, from our point of view - but we had already said it then - seemed to us and we think very farraginosa: I refer to the transfer employer-region-INPS. Even today we are witnessing the ballets or the competition of the figures between the relative Regions and the same INPS. Unfortunately, the reality is right: so many workers are still waiting for their jobs and I would ask you, Minister, to provide the data and a current picture of the situation. In practice, we would like to know how many workers still have to receive the redundancy fund by way of derogation. The second concern arises from the decree-law I throw again because it changes the procedure illustrated just before: the Government previews the direct payment of the INPS avoiding the passage from the Region. I understand the good intentions, but here too, our concerns remain; indeed, from a personal point of view, they also increase. We are convinced that even in this case the workers will not be able to perceive their claims before two months, and it will certainly not be the 40% deposit of the INPS that will solve the problem; indeed, that is one of the points that will cause problems. In fact, that's the down payment, within thirty days the companies will have to communicate a sort of final and there is no time set by the INPS within which to settle the balance. This is the reason for our concern and the question I ask you, Minister, is if you do not think it is appropriate to provide for a way in which workers can immediately receive their direct advances through a bank, through the provision of a state guarantee. It is clear that it will be the employer who will transfer the relevant details of the monthly remuneration to the banking institution. The central role remains clearly of the company and no burden of any kind must be borne by the company itself. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u26	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Catalfo, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u27	Mr President, before answering the questions put, I am obliged to remind you of the context in which the Government and the INPS have had to operate in the last three months, in order to ensure, as quickly as possible, the protection of companies and workers. As everyone knows, we have had to use the tools made available by our system, adapting them to exceptional protection needs, resulting from the pandemic in place. This has been particularly the case with regard to social shock absorbers, on which, since the beginning of my mandate, I have stressed the need for reform. I have already pointed out on other occasions the extraordinary effort made, not only by the Government, but also by all the employees of the INPS, called to escape in a single month a number of practices that is usually managed over years. However, aware of the serious difficulties faced by the entire population, I have worked to improve the system by simplifying the procedures traditionally applied for the provision of wage integration treatments, including the one by way of derogation, in order to make them more streamlined and faster. To this end, the re-launched decree eliminated the involvement of the regions in the submission of the request for wage integration by way of derogation, thus eliminating the four passages of which the honourable Member spoke. More precisely, according to Article 71 of the IRR, the employer who makes direct payment by the INPS forwards directly to the Institute the application for the benefit within the 15th day of the beginning of the period of suspension or reduction of the work, together with - this is the news - the data essential for the calculation and the provision of an anticipation of the benefit to the workers. Within 15 days of receipt of the application, the INPS shall authorise applications and grant an advance treatment of 40% in order to ensure immediate liquidity to workers. Within the next 30 days, the employer sends to the Institute all the data necessary for the balance of wage integration, which will then be carried out by the INPS. With regard to the convention with banking institutions, I would like to reiterate that two months ago - perhaps even more so - the social partners signed with the Italian Banking Association (ABI) a protocol for the anticipation by all banks, which was then signed and in any case also involves the Italian Post company, for the anticipation of the Cassa Integrazione. The changes I have mentioned require the necessary technical time to adapt the information systems of the INPS, which is already implementing the system for the receipt of applications for cash integration by way of derogation. Coming to the state of pay integration treatment, to date, more generally, 6.9 million workers have been paid, 92 percent of the total of those for whom companies have sent the data necessary for payment to the INPS, with the famous SR41 model. In particular, with regard to the state of payment of the fund by way of derogation, on the basis of an analysis of the data updated to 3 June 2020, with reference to a national framework, it appears that the beneficiaries authorised by the INPS are 1,285,601 workers. Of these were provided by the companies to the Institute the data necessary for the payment of more than 1,100,000, of which 911,247 are already paid. All data are in any case available on the INPS website. To conclude, I can assure you that it is already under study, in my ministry, an organic reform of the discipline of social shock absorbers, aimed at making the institution less cumbersome and more suitable to respond promptly to the needs of the protection of companies and workers. Large space will be recognised in the profile of the training and accompaniment of the individual worker to the reintegration into the labour market. Only by directing income support instruments towards active policies can we face the challenge of renewal that this delicate phase poses to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u28	I give the floor to Senator Laus to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u29	Mr President, in thanking the Minister, I think it is important to review the whole system of social shock absorbers, but there are still concerns. I say this to you clearly and simply, because I support the majority and have every interest in making a contribution in effective terms: every worker must feel his or her rights at the latest by the 15th of the following month. We senators perceive our performances in the month of competence. In this particular case, the 40% deposit with its balance, taking into account the dynamics that you told us a moment ago, in my opinion will not put the worker in a position to perceive the claims within two months. The only possible solution - I see it this way - is that the worker immediately perceives his duties directly to the credit institution, clearly through the companies, and that the State is guaranteed 100%, without charge - as I said in the premise - to the companies. All the other procedures, while understanding the effort, will not solve the problems from our point of view. Of course, if the problems are solved and the workers will immediately be able to perceive these challenges, I will be the first to be happy and to congratulate you and the government I support here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u30	Senator Toffanin has the right to explain the question 3-01641 on occupational safety and health care contributions for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to express our concern to the Minister: we are really concerned about the fate of the Italians who work and those who do not have the job, but who are looking for it. We are concerned about those who are left without a job because of this crisis. It is not enough to continue to congratulate them for their courage, their resilience, as it is not enough to support them with a hashtag "celafare." Here and now - and it is already late - the government must intervene on several fronts with concrete aid and criterion, according to the real needs of each individual category, of each individual worker, not only with rain interventions of a welfare type, but also and above all with targeted structural interventions, with investments for companies that create the real jobs. Minister, there are too many words that have been put forward to date in support of Italian workers, much less the substantive measures. In the Italian decree, Article 43 provides for contributions for craft, industrial and commercial enterprises, for the safety of work activities in order to guarantee health care. The resources allocated after so many announcements were to say the least ridiculous: only 50 million euros, spent a second after the opening of the ban, against a little more than 3,000 applications accepted and over 190,000 that have not been admitted. But is that possible, Minister? Is this your programming? Once again the wrong click day tool has been used, which does not even take into account that the Internet connection in Italy does not come everywhere: of the series "chi primo clicke e ha la connessione veloce, prima obtaine e gli altri sono a bucco sicata" (first click and has the fast connection). A completely insufficient financial coverage, therefore: so many nice words, little money and badly distributed. Now, in the decree-law relaunches the audience of the possible applicants such contributions, in addition to the companies, also to the institutions of the third sector, and so far nothing bad, indeed; but, in addition to widening to other possible beneficiaries, no resource has been put to cover (I emphasize): practically, "the wedding with dried figs". We therefore ask you, Minister, how and when you intend to guarantee financial cover, because without resources the measure does not make sense, except as yet another announcement; yet, in order to strengthen the tasks forces, tables or unnecessary bodies, the resources have been found. INPS and INAIL can increase the amount to bear the costs resulting from the major services due to the crisis; however, how can private companies bear the higher costs due to the crisis? With a fortuitous click? Minister, how do you intend to ensure a fair, impartial and comprehensive distribution of resources? Does it not consider it appropriate to open a new ban, with adequate resources and to define the criteria for a fair and non-random distribution? [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u32	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Catalfo, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u33	Mr President, this question focuses on the piece of legislation implemented under Article 77 of the so-called re-launching decree-law, which also included third sector entities among the recipients of the benefits contained in Article 43 of the Italian decree-law, which was originally addressed - as Senator Toffanin pointed out - only to companies. In particular, Article 43 last mentioned states that, in order to support the safety continuity of the production processes of companies, as well as the activities of general interest of third sector entities, following the coronavirus medical emergency, expenditure on the purchase of devices and other personal protective instruments should be financed, up to a maximum of EUR 50 million. The reasons underlying the enlargement of the beneficiaries' audience lie in the belief that the revival of our country passes not only through support for companies, but also to those who carry out activities of general interest not in the form of a company and, as such, worthy of similar protection. Moreover, many of the activities of general interest carried out by non-profit entities are directed directly to the fight and prevention of the virus. To give a measure of the size of the non-profit institutions in our country, just consider that, on the basis of the last survey of Istat, at the date of December 31, 2017 they amounted to 350,492; in turn, they can count on the contribution of 5,528,000 volunteers and 844 employees. With reference then to the demarcation of the subjective field of application, Article 77 of the decree-law relaunch does not give rise to interpretative uncertainties, as the norm is firmly anchored to the definition of entity of the third sector contained in the code of the third sector. Similarly, there is no doubt as to the objective profile of activities of general interest, which find a precise and exhaustive list in Article 5 of the same Code. It should also be considered that, pursuant to Article 95 of the decree-law relaunch, additional support resources have been provided for the reduction of the risk from contagion of the Covid-19 virus in the workplace, aimed at the purchase of equipment, equipment and devices, including those of personal protection, to which financing entirely provides the INAIL with the resources already available for a total amount of 403 million euros. These special measures are intended not only for persons registered in the Register of Enterprises or the Register of Craft Enterprises, including in agriculture, but also for social enterprises, as defined in the Code of the Third Sector and registered in the Special Section of the said Register. With regard to the clear need for an impartial allocation of resources, further elements relating to the requirements for access to the contribution and the nature of the support of the implementing entity should be considered. From the first point of view, the requirements for access to the contribution are already defined by the provision establishing the measure and are linked to subjective characteristics (the entrepreneurial nature of the applicant or the qualification of third sector body), which are documented as verifiable. Therefore, there is no margin of discretion for the implementing entity, which is limited to carrying out an activity of mere investigation. Secondly, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not have direct control of the implementing body, supervised by other administrations. I therefore trust that, also through the controlling Ministry, appropriate measures will be taken to safeguard par condice in access to the contribution that is being discussed. Finally, with regard to the request to consider a refinancing of the measure, I can report that we are considering this hypothesis in line with the financial resources available. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Toffanin has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u34	Mr President, I am not at all satisfied with the Minister's reply, which explained to us the rule that we have all read (therefore there was no need for it) and also explained to us why it was extended to third sector bodies (but it did not have to convince us, because for us it is a very large measure in these terms). When you refer to Article 95 of the IRR you refer to a tax credit which is not liquidity for companies. Minister, I say that from the beginning you have pursued the virus with "trap provisions," completely inadequate for serious re-starting programming. Besides, as you well explained today, there are no resources. We cannot rely on the case for the distribution of resources, continuing to give it to those who have worked with profits and instead penalising those who need it most, making discrimination between sectors and categories, as in the case of the world of professions. [[Applause]] You've turned this country into a kind of game room, where the fortune and digital ability of some bullies over the need for so many others. [[Applause]] The lottery cannot be a system to govern a country, even though it is one of the tools that you like so much (I can also think of the lottery of receipts). Mr. Minister, think about criteria for assessing merit, measures that consider the real need of so many workers and businesses. You have to stop with measures and communications that serve only to make you propaganda, but that in reality are empty measures, without planning, financed very little or even for nothing. Minister, the crisis we are experiencing is serious, very serious. Tell that to the president of the Tridico INPS, who does huge damage every time he opens his mouth. Minister, Italians must not be fooled: it is enough to create false expectations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u35	Senator Nisini has the right to explain the question 3-01646 on the data concerning citizens' income recipients, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, my question concerns the income of citizenship as a measure of active labour policy and of combating poverty, inequality and social exclusion. The Movimento 5 Stars Group has always supported the unbridled nature of this measure, not to be regarded as a mere form of welfare but - as you yourself stated, Minister, at the time the rapporteur of the measure in the Senate - a proactive measure linked to the inclusion in the social and working context of the citizen. Alas, the data give a different view; the data of the Observatory on citizenship income and also those of the National Active Labour Policy Agency (ANPAL). The observatory reports that in 2019 the measure involved 968.645 households and 2,540,575 people, for an average monthly amount of 527 euros. This average amount rises in 2020 to 568 euros, with the involvement of 1,057,319 nuclei and 2,721,036 people. According to the monthly note of May 29, 2020, published by ANPAL, at the date of April 1, 2020 the total number of beneficiaries of citizenship income in the ANPAL database is just over 991,000 individuals, of which only 819.129 are subject to the employment pact and only 365.759 are taken over by employment services. Anpal also reports that the beneficiaries who started an employment relationship after the application was approved are 39.760, 65.2 percent of whom are fixed-term, 19.7 percent are permanent and 3.9 percent are apprenticeships. This means that the recipients of the citizenship income who have obtained a job represent just under 2% of the audience and that, of these, the vast majority have obtained a fixed-term employment. As for the pact for social inclusion, in recent months, even before the epidemiological emergency induced the Government to suspend the conditionality of the obligations related to the enjoyment of the income of citizenship, very few municipalities had activated the paths for the activities of service to the community. The Court of Auditors also rejects the measure, as can be seen from the 2020 report on the coordination of public finance, published in recent days, in which the Court points out that: As regards the second pillar of citizenship income (RdC), which aims to promote active labour policies, the results now appear to be largely unsatisfactory and confirm the concerns raised by the Court at its inception. The data available, communicated by ANPAL Servizi, say that on February 10, 2020, the beneficiaries of the RdC who had an employment relationship after the approval of the application are about 40,000. Above all, there are no signs of a greater dynamism of the Employment Centres than in the past. The press continuously reports checks to people without the requisites and, last but not least, in recent days, have released the news of a survey of the Finance Guard from which it would seem to be clear that, for months, 101 subjects linked to the organized underworld of Reggio Calabria and Province would have unduly received the income of citizenship, for a total of over 500,000 euros, while 15 more would have already submitted the application. It is asked to know whether the facts reported are true, what are the real figures of the recipients of citizenship income and of those who have found work and, more generally, what initiatives the Minister wishes to take in order to prevent public funds being made available for de facto assistance measures without any real effect on the labour market. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u37	The Minister for Labour and Social Policy, Senator Catalfo, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u38	Mr President, the questions put by Senator Nisini call for my answer on the implementation profiles of citizenship income, in order to assess the actual impact of the benefit to date. On this point, I can state the effectiveness of the measures, on which the European Commission has also recently expressed its ability to mitigate the effect of the crisis. Analyzing the data in our possession, as you yourself anticipated, there are more than one million current nuclei beneficiaries, corresponding to about 2.5 million people involved. A little over a year after the start, the total number of perceptors reflects that estimated in the technical report of the decree-law that established it. In response to the question put by the honourable Member, I can report that, on 29 February 2020, 622,810 beneficiaries were invited to employment centres; 500,541 of whom 74,230 were exempted and 17,563 were sent back to the municipalities for social inclusion pathways. The beneficiaries who have signed the Covenant for Work and the Covenant for Service are 316,000; of these 116,476 have already been summoned for a further interview and 65,000 have entered into an employment contract. According to the latest available data, the households sent to social services - as we know, in fact, the measure consists of a double track are 463,353, of which 130,490 have already been taken over by the same social services of the municipalities, despite the suspension, while 50,000 are involved in the realization of their Pact for inclusion. With regard to the minor beneficiaries of the measure, according to the updated data, it appears that there are 655,441; moreover, of the 994,000 units per capita income of citizenship, about 181,000 have the presence within a citizen with an income from work. Citizen's income as a whole is aimed at a vulnerable audience, mostly composed of people who have been unemployed for years with low levels of professionalism or without specialization or adequate training to enable rapid reintegration into the labour market. Therefore, in the short term, the effectiveness of the measure must be assessed in relation to the ability to preserve the essential rights and dignity of the person and his family, ensuring that the recipients, in addition to economic support, also a set of accompanying services and support for social and working inclusion, promoting the autonomous capacity to contribute to their community and preventing the intergenerational transmission of poverty. In this respect, it is stressed that about half of the households benefiting from the activation obligations are addressed to the services of the municipalities responsible for combating poverty, being composed of individuals long away from the labour market, for the purpose of establishing a pact for social inclusion. The non-assisted nature of the measure is, in fact, reflected in the ability to start with the beneficiary families a path of activation and social inclusion. As you know, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has provided a platform for the management of citizenship income, part of which is the platform for the management of social inclusion pacts, on which all territorial areas must be accredited in order to register the social services operators involved in taking responsibility for the beneficiaries of citizenship income and addressed to social services, as well as the operators responsible for the checks of residence and residence requirements. To date all territorial areas are accredited and are registered on the platform 11.550 social services operators and 17.654 operators for the verification of checks of residence and residence requirements. In this period of emergency, however, the instruments for social workers were defined and distance training for them strengthened. It should also be borne in mind that efforts to strengthen employment centres and services responsible for combating poverty and the preparation of labour and social inclusion pacts are still being implemented. Before the beginning of the pandemic the Regions had banned or were proceeding to ban competitions for the recruitment of 11,600 operators in the centers for the employment for the biennium 2019-2020. This increase in the organic allocation of employment centres has been temporarily suspended due to the Covid-19 emergency, which has also been linked to the partial suspension of cross-compliance obligations. Perceptors, in fact, can still carry out at a distance the training and guidance activities connected also with the work pacts and those for inclusion. In addition, cross-compliance with job offers remains firm. Finally, as far as the case of reported news is concerned, I am aware that an investigation has been initiated by the Finance Guard in which the INPS has guaranteed its full cooperation, proceeding promptly to withdraw the benefit and signaling the provider of citizenship income cards the need to block them. Finally, I would like to point out that it is my intention to strengthen instruments of active policy and training of the worker to facilitate the placement or relocation in the world of work also for the beneficiaries of income support measures, such as citizenship income. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u39	Senator Nisini has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u40	Mr President, I thank the Minister. With his answer and his words he confirmed that active labour policies do not work. The update: it is a few days ago the news that another investigation by the Finance Guard in Enna is taking place, where 36 farmers, who received European funds, also received citizenship income for a long time. [[Applause.]] The income of citizenship has shown that it is mere welfare, so much so that this morning the former minister Grillo on the national TVs has declared, obviously with the usual modus operandi of the dischargebarile, blaming the Regions, that the centers for the employment do not work. So you yourself have stated that employment centres are not working. [[Applause.]] You yourself have downloaded on ANPAL the failure to operate, so nothing works but it is the fault of others. But the result is that it doesn't work. On citizenship income he omitted a figure: that at talks 120,000 subjects did not show up, because they prefer to stay on the couch. [[Applause.]] Minister Bellanova himself, speaking of the maxi-sanatoria, stated that there is no reason why those who receive citizenship income should go to the camps. I tell you then that 40,000 Italians have applied to enter the agricultural world, support it and survive. [[Applause.]] The citizenship income also reaches the former brigadeists (declared by the President of the INPS), since they have all the requirements to take it. If at the time, when we were in the government together, you had listened and accepted (I was also at the table with her, in front of Prime Minister Conte and then Minister Di Maio) the amendment that would have prevented the brigadeists and criminals from taking the subsidy from the state, probably there would have been less news in the local press. If you had accepted our amendments, which improved active labour policies, involving the municipalities, the figures would probably be different to date. [[Applause.]] I shall conclude by saying that everything is still in the municipalities and regions. I am an administrator of a municipality and we are looking for a property to be used as a center for employment. Despite the difficulties, the greater resources for a bankruptcy activity, which does not work and will never work, does not allocate the State, but the municipalities, which will have to take charge of the renovation of the buildings. [[Applause.]] Commons that are at a loss, that cannot even deal with the provision of essential services, not to mention the standard ones. So, change course, put the municipalities in a position to work. Enough with the discharge of the barrel, saying that it is the fault of the municipalities, that it is the fault of the Regions! It is your fault, your presumption, for you do not listen to anyone and go forward with reason in your pocket. That's not how it works, Minister. She and I made this measure together, because it was associated with the one on 100; the commitment was so much, the sacrifice was so much, but realize that it does not work, as former Minister Grillo said this morning on TV. It doesn't work not because of the regions, not because of the municipalities, but because of the plant, which is an empty box, it doesn't work. Then stop for a moment: it is public money; it is a question of giving the answers to the Italian unemployed, those unemployed who were yesterday, who are today and who, with these active labour policies, will also be able to do so tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u41	Senator Floridia has the right to explain the question 3-01645 on the prospects for the continuation of smart working in the public sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u42	Mr President, kind Minister, the current health emergency has given rise to an incredible acceleration in the use of smart working, agile work, thanks to measures taken for the management of the epidemic by Covid-19 which have in fact attributed to this mode of work the essentially function of containment of the contagion. Public administrations, therefore, as a matter of necessity, had to make extensive use of the agile way of working for all those activities that could be carried out from home or at a distance. The emergency, therefore, has offered us the opportunity to reflect on the need, and also on the opportunity, to spread such a way of working for the public administration, because, in reality, it has been realized that the increase of smart working in the public administration would bring important benefits. First of all to the workers themselves, for the saving of time and greater autonomy also in the management of daily activity and, secondly, it would improve their quality of life. It would also benefit the public administration because, in terms of efficiency and effectiveness of the administrative organisation, it is clear what benefit it could bring. As a third aspect, not least, but, indeed, for us very important, there is, above all, the benefit that would derive from it to the whole community, because it would enjoy the decongestion of urban centres and the reduction of CO2 emissions, with consequences obviously favourable to the health of the environment. Given that, with the decree care Italy, the smart working has become to all intents and purposes an ordinary and widespread way of carrying out the work, as well as - let me say - in line with the innovative impulse that it is necessary to pursue, constituting a real cultural revolution for Italy, it is asked to know what, in the face of the experience gained in these months, its orientation in relation to the use of this instrument under conditions of ordinaryity and if it does not intend, to this end, also to take measures to implement the appeal introducing the related implementing formative modalities and, of course, monitoring. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u43	The Minister for Public Administration, Dr. Dadone, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u44	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senators for allowing me to return to a key issue, which was very important during the emerging phase, that of agile work, which allowed this Government and the whole of the public administration not to lag behind in a stage of health emergency and to continue to ensure the provision of services and also to protect the health of workers. It is clear that the agile work we have experienced during the emergency is not the classic smart working, but it is a smart working dictated by the emergency and the necessity, which has involved very high percentages of workers in agile jobs precisely for the protection of health. That is why, in the decree relaunching, instead, we have introduced a further legislation, aimed at encouraging the administration to a partial return of the staff, linked to the alternations of physical presence with the necessity to guarantee, even more quickly, the services for the administrations, the enterprises and citizens who, progressively, are falling within the ordinary working procedures and, therefore, to a normal life. It is clear that the objective must be, not only, as it was during the emerging phase, that of protecting health and organizational well-being, but must necessarily be balanced with the efficiency and effectiveness of services. It must, of course, also contribute to greater savings by the public administration. If we manage to keep more workers in agile work, but also in remote working (so, not only in smart working as known, that is, the agile work from home, but also within shared spaces, such as coworking), we can get savings on the functionality front, as the private world shows. It is simply a matter of applying this method, with corrections, to the world of the public, with a remarkable environmental sustainability. The increase, as I said, was very high during this emergency. The aim is now to bring it to 30 to 40% of the staff in the system, but also to ask the administration to identify which activities can be carried out in this way and to maintain a percentage of at least half of these activities in agile work. We have activated a monitoring and two consultations, both for management staff and not, in order to be able to cross-assess with this experimental period. All this must be accompanied by the rights, such as the right to disconnect time parameters, the identification of objectives, a necessary training of management staff, which must reorganize work on the basis of objectives and no longer of physical presence, and also by training of non-directive personnel, who must make themselves available to this new challenge that will then become an organizational model in regime. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u45	I give the floor to Senator Ortis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u46	Mr President, I greet and thank the Government and the Minister for all their work and commitment at the difficult time we are going through. A well-known magazine of Italian geopolitics has cleverly defined this moment, paraphrasing Winston Churchill, the clearest hour, since, apart from the suffering and deprivations that we have faced, the Covid-19 has helped us to begin to clarify several aspects that concern, for example, the relationship between States, the utility of Europe and the functionality or dysfunction of the Regions: issues that we will certainly have to address and discuss widely and without preconceptions in this Assembly. Among other things, we have found that smart working or teleworking - as they call it in Brussels - can be used and can also be applied in Italy, despite the somewhat old-fashioned thinking that it was not possible to use it now. We have discovered that it is not true that distance work makes the worker produce less and, indeed, on our shoulders we have seen that it is exactly the opposite: we work more. We realized that contact with the company is not lost with the agile work because the tools allow us to stay in touch and that it is not difficult to use the technologies that perhaps seemed so far from our way of seeing the work. For these reasons, I find your answer very satisfactory and, therefore, we are also fully satisfied with the increase in the use of this instrument. Before concluding, I would like to remind you that here in the Senate we have already been working for about a year on the Senate Act 1320 on provisions for the development of teleworking in public administrations. I am convinced that with everyone's commitment we will be able to innovate and improve the work in our country and - who knows - maybe one day here in the Senate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u47	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u48	10:53 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u49	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, organised the discussion of the question of trust posed by the Government on the decree-law on access to credit for businesses, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the debate on confidence, ten minutes were allocated to each parliamentary group. The explanations of vote will follow and he will call you, orientally around 1 p.m. Each senator will vote from his place. The Conference of Leaders also approved the timetable for work until 19 June. In the session on Tuesday 9, beginning at 12 noon, the motions on the activation of serological tests for the Covid-19 virus and on the initiatives to address the climate emergency will be discussed. Next week's timetable also provides for the discussion of decree-laws on the extension of procedural interceptions and suspensions and on epidemiological and statistical studies on SARS-CoV-2. In the week from 16 to 19 June, in addition to the possible follow-up to the unfinished topics, the decree-law on electoral consultations for 2020, currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies, will be discussed. On Wednesday 17 June, at 3 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the European Council on 18 and 19 June 2020. The question time will take place at 3 p.m. on Thursday 11 and Thursday 18.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u50	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 3 June 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new schedule of the Assembly until 19 June 2020: [[Thursday 4 June h. 9.30 a.m. - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure - Following draft law n. 1829 - Decree-Law n. 23, Access to the credit of enterprises (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 7 June)]] [[Tuesday, June 9, h. 12 - Motions on the activation of serological tests for the virus Covid-19 - Motions on initiatives to address the climate emergency Wednesday, June 10, h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 1786 - Decree-Law n. 28, Extension of interceptions and procedural suspensions (deceases on June 29) - Drawing of law n. 1800 - Decree-Law n. 30, epidemiological studies and statistics on SARS-COV-2 (vote by June 10) (decide on July 9) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 11, at 15) Thursday 11 " h. 9,30]] [[Tuesday, June 16, h. 16,30 - Following topics not concluded - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 26, Election consultations year 2020 (where approved and transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on June 19) - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 18 and 19 June 2020 (Wednesday 17, at 15) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules (Thursday 18, at 15) Wednesday 17 " h. 9,30 Thursday 18 " h. 9,30 Friday 19 " h. 9,30 (if necessary)]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the bill n.... (Decree-Law n. 26, Election consultations year 2020) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1786 (Decree-Law No. 28, Extension of interceptions and suspension of proceedings) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 30' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h 7' FI-BP 1 h 6' PD 49' Mixed 41' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1800 (Decree-Law No 30, epidemiological studies and statistics on SARS-COV-2) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 4' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FI-BP 47' PD 35' Mixed 29' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 26, Election consultations year 2020) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 4' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' FI-BP 47' PD 35' Mixed 29' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on the Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 18 and 19 June 2020 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 39' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FI-BP 28' PD 21' Mixed 17' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u51	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1829, already approved by the House of Deputies. I would remind you that during yesterday's sitting the general discussion and reply of the representative of the Government took place and the Government put the question of trust in the approval of the single article of the bill at our examination, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, among the many difficulties of having to face a completely new and unpredictable situation for us politicians, but also for the scientific and health world that has seen us engaged in discussing over the last few months on the many issues that were ahead of us in which the economic emergency, unfortunately, was flanked predominantly by the health emergency, today we are preparing to convert into law a decree introducing urgent and important measures of support for companies and for the gradual restart of our economy. Unfortunately, from the very beginning there was a confrontation with the demagogy of those political parties who, on the one hand, called for the immediate release of liquidity to companies, on the other, stigmatized and continue to stigmatize any national economic measure with a poor and negative vision towards a European policy aimed, instead, at finding the resources to cope with the crisis. Despite this and despite the economic and health situation that we faced was unprecedented, we were able to act by having financial and fiscal measures that are useful to mitigate, and in some cases even to stem, the effects of a pandemic that has put and is putting to the test not only our health system, but also and above all our economic and productive system, with a serious risk of social crisis. The liquidity decree, so contested by a sterile and hypocritical propaganda, managed, at a particularly difficult time for all, to give that oxygen that was necessary not only for businesses, but also for professionals, VAT matches and craftsmen, introducing more streamlined tax requirements and simplified and particularly advantageous credit access measures. The measure, although defined by the many modest and insufficient detractors, instead represents for many enterprises and for thousands of self-employed and professionals a real form of anchor that, as the diportisti well know, is very easy to say, but more difficult to make, requiring not only a certain experience but above all a good dose of common sense. I would like to comment briefly on some of the measures introduced by this decree-law that intervenes not only on access to credit and support to liquidity but also on the guarantee for the continuity of companies and the exercise of special powers in the areas of strategic importance of our country. The measures envisaged have been improved by our interventions, by parliamentary interventions that have allowed an extension of the audience of beneficiaries for access to credit with the inclusion of professional associations, companies between professionals, third sector entities, insurance agencies, subagents and brokers whose business activity has been damaged by the emergency Covid-19. State intervention on the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises has been stepped up, by way of derogation from the ordinary framework with 100% coverage, both in direct guarantee and in reinsurance, also increasing the amount of funding from EUR 25,000 to EUR 30,000 and - change of no small account - the extension of the duration of funding guaranteed from six to ten years. For loans of up to EUR 800,000 for which up to 100% of the funding can be requested, the repayment is foreseen in thirty years. These extensions have thus led to a significant reduction in the amount of the monthly instalment, making it easier for companies which are thus not likely to be stifled by the limited time taken to return the sums financed. With this decree-law the operation of the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises has been significantly expanded, with the provision, among other things, of: the freeness of the guarantee with the suspension of the obligation to pay the planned fees for access to the fund, and also admitting exceptions for certain types of enterprises, to which particular sensitivity has been demonstrated and for which the commissions are not due; the eligibility for the guarantee of debt renegotiation operations; the automatic extension of the guarantee in case of moratorium or suspension of financing for the emergency coronavirus; also simplified investigations. The maximum guaranteed amount has increased to 5 million euros with the admission to the guarantee also of the enterprises up to 499 employees. The percentage of direct coverage thus rises to at least 90%, with the possibility of reaching 100% in compliance with certain conditions for some financing assumptions. Special attention has also been paid to those who, evidently in greater difficulty on the date of the claim for guarantee, presented exposures to the lender classified as probable or overdue or unlimited and impaired failures, provided that the classification is after 31 January 2020, providing for such persons and undertakings also the granting of access to the fund, but excluding undertakings that have exposures classified as suffering, under the banking framework. Necessary and important, discussing precisely companies and professionals in difficulty, is the long-awaited extension of the exclusion of protesters until August 31, with automatic cancellation, by the chambers of commerce, industry, crafts and agriculture, of those that had been published in the period discovered in the blackberries of the entry into force of the law. By adding outstanding funding to the new ones, the aim is to allow guarantees of more than 100 billion total funding to companies by the fund. Colleagues, today we are discussing the liquidity decree-law, but we must not and cannot dwell on the individual measure, as today too, like others examined and which we will examine, is linked not only to the emerging context, but is part of a system of coordinated measures aimed at bringing the whole country out of the storm at this moment, without anyone remaining behind. This Government and the political forces representing it, particularly Italy Viva, have been present throughout the critical period in Parliament, not to protest until late at night, at a time when the protest - let me say - was not only inappropriate and instrumental - but it was framed in a frame of extreme populism that has nothing to do with parliamentary political activity and that, indeed, contributes to a discreditation of the same activity, with a wound almost to the integrity of the institutional role. I was saying, we stayed in Parliament, in our offices and in the Commissions, yes, until late at night, working to find solutions so that always and with the utmost attention to the needs of citizens and businesses could really start again in the shortest possible time, inserting that extra march that is a duty not only to our young people, who have the right to live and to find a better world than the current one, but also and above all to all those who, up to now, with sacrifices of not little account, have governed the fate of the country, without asking to be assisted, but working and respecting the rules with dignity and sense of duty. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u53	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u54	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are speaking on the question of trust that has been raised, and that is why it is appropriate and absolutely necessary to explain why we are fundamentally opposed to the imposition of trust always and in any case on measures of this importance. Meanwhile, there is a story that I would like to remind you: the opposition forces, when they were called to act responsibly, have given their vote for the budget deviations, both for the 25 and for the next 55 billion, and this liquidity decree-law is, of course, the result of those choices that have been made. That is why he would have deserved that in this Branch of Parliament, that is, in the Senate, the debate had been of an ordinary nature. I must remind my colleagues that, like us here, we had four days - so much so that the act arrived in the Chamber without the mandate to the rapporteur to discuss the conversion of the measure - on the other hand, in the House, the same happened with the decree-law school. This habit - if you prefer, bad practice - is only discussed in one House, while in the other it is not deepened, in our opinion it is partly to the detriment of the contents and problems that are not actually resolved. I would like to give some examples on matters that are important to us because it is right to stress this. In the conversion of this decree-law does not yet solve a fundamental question, that of the responsibility of employers, because, despite article 29-bis introduced to the Chamber, the legislation in fact continues to confuse what is an obvious accident at work, for a doctor, for example, with the general classification that was made with the previous decree-law care Italy. This means that every entrepreneur, small or large, can be subject to a civil, criminal, or even a problem with his insurance, simply because the INAIL made certain choices in his circulars. Above all, it has not taken on a concept that I think is elementary, that is, that we are facing a pandemic, so it is a bit complicated that on a job - think of those who work in textiles rather than those who produce machinery or do crafts - there may be an equalization with the accident at work, which, on the other hand, certainly affects the medical class, the nurses and so on. On this there is still no clarity and we can give rise to a series of profound injustices, because our country is a country where - to remember the intervention of Senator Pichetto Fratin yesterday - they always serve signatures. But why do they always need signatures and papers? Because this is a country where you are afraid to take responsibility, because from today to tomorrow the Court of Auditors, the enemy who goes to make a complaint in the prosecutor's office, the discontented customer who reacts. That is why, of course, within this framework, we cannot, on the one hand, build responsibilities and, on the other hand, fail to understand that they must be dissolved. For this reason we think it would have been better not to put the question of trust, but to deal more seriously with some of the nodes - I have said one of the many - that the conversion of this decree-law poses. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u55	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u56	Mr President, exactly two months ago, President Conte presented himself in his favourite place, that is, in front of the journalists, to say - and I quote - that: With the newly approved decree-law we provide immediate liquidity of 400 billion euros to our companies. In this episode that I have remembered we photograph the real situation that we are going through right now in the country. We have a President-in-Office of the Council who goes on television before going to the Chambers, and uses terms such as "bazooka" or "water of liquidity," which are more suitable for a bomber, for a pot seller, or for those who appear on television to sell something. But they are, of course, fake news, known as such. In fact, almost sixty days after its adoption, we find ourselves having to convert the decree-law in question, without having, for example, any news of the results it produced. After about sixty days, an urgent decree-law could have produced something, but no information was provided about it. We found some feedback in the press and opinions that we collected. Today, the banking world is partly responding to the minor measure, the one relating to funding up to EUR 25,000, if there are no pre-existing problems on the part of the applicant, i.e. he has not had a problem with a cheque put in place. Imagine what happens if he had access to insolvency proceedings: they wouldn't even let him into the bank. There is therefore this bulwark and this misunderstanding of the world of credit, with respect to the beneficiaries of a rule of the State, which, evidently, precisely because of the fictitious interposition of this subject, that is, the world of banks, becomes of long and difficult application. The figure of funding up to 25,000 euros has given some very modest response, for those subjects who had no problem. So this is a rule that has gone not to solve problems, but, at best, to help. If there were any problems, the potential beneficiaries - I repeat - would not even have been able to enter the bank. All the other measures, the full-bodied ones, which were defined as bazooka, are firm. There is indeed a serious problem which we could have tried to resolve if there had been a minimum of debate and a minimum of cooperation: I am referring to that famous collaboration, which not later than yesterday evening at 6 p.m., the usual subject, namely the President of the Council, has made a great deal of reference to the Chambers and the oppositions. These are, of course, empty statements, as we all know, colleagues. If there were therefore a minimum of cooperation, we could have detailed, for example, that all further measures, i.e. those of significant economic size, have been impossible to implement, because banking institutions are waiting to receive the guarantee materially, which is obviously late and there is no guarantee. The piece of paper does not arrive and, if the piece of paper does not arrive, the banks, that according to a well-known jargon are accustomed to dirty the cards, do not give money and block it. Even if the investigation has been successful, if the guarantee is not completed, the procedure will not be concluded. Therefore, sixty days after the adoption of this measure, it has remained only within the statements of the President of the Council, who loves to go on television, because this caress his ego and the next day, when it concerns the video, he believes he has fulfilled his duty. In fact, all this remains in the video, as we, today, in this House, do. Mr President, the marginality of the debate on this subject seems to me quite clear. This is also a picture of what is happening in the country: we are all here for the benefit of Facebook, because then we take our video and put it on social media, so at least someone listens to us. However, there is no contribution that the Chambers should make on this issue, and that is, or should be, the subject of my speech. Mr President, I find it hard to talk about obvious things and have to convince my fellow Members of something that I consider absolutely obvious. Today we are converting a decree-law without a rapporteur, with the question of trust. All acts dismissed by the Chambers relating to the Government Count 2 were dismissed with the question of trust. I just try to imagine - and you just try to imagine, with a minimum of residual objectivity - what would have happened if this had happened with a President of the Council, I do not say Salvini (if I may say Salvini), but different: any President of the Council other than Count. Try to imagine if there was a government in office today that dismissed any measure with the imposition of the question of trust. My colleague, Mrs Modena, said earlier that you have started a practice whereby the debate takes place at first reading, while the second one has a systematic basis for confidence. Unfortunately, this is no longer the case, because at first reading you already put your trust; practically the rooms are totally excluded and today's photography is a clear mirror. This is a very important measure, also because it has an absolutely redundant title: liquidity. This is what everyone needs and it is what everyone asks: families, businesses, professionals seek and ask for liquidity; workers who received the last paycheck in February and do not receive the fund ask for liquidity, because liquidity is also needed to shop and to buy bread. This is then the key issue that should not engage, but also distort consciences, because of this belief - without excessive emphasis - we should talk about it. This is the mirror of our Senate and it is inevitable, because this majority - and I also understand Mr Vono's speech just now - actually adopted Renzi's constitutional reform rejected by the referendum. It has adopted it; indeed, it has gone further, because it canceled one of the two chambers, while this Government has canceled both of them. This is before everyone's eyes. It can also work at an emergency time that you look for shortcuts to solve huge problems. It can also work, and no one would be scandalized, but first of all it must be done by mutual agreement and the common agreement cannot be merely stated. These days in the Health Commission, we have made a genuine effort, at least on the subject of health, to reach an agreement, Mr President, but this too, unfortunately, seems to be a vain effort. Therefore, as a first condition, the agreement between majority and opposition is indispensable. When you seek shortcuts, you really seek sharing with the opposition. Secondly, there are measures which reach their destination and the recipient. Of this measure, how far did you get to your destination? Do you, colleagues, find a positive or positive comment on the fact that companies, families and professionals have found refreshment in this decree? I did a research in the press review, but I couldn't find a single article by a commentator - and God knows how careful the press is at this difficult time towards the Government - that has emphasized a single part of this decree that you are going to convert today. What to say in closing, President? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Close, however, please. Mr Zaffini (FdI). I'm done. There's a decorum problem. I believe that the Presidency must also raise this problem, because everything has a limit and at a certain level - and we have passed the level, Mr President (of course I am speaking with you as a figure, not as a colleague) - the dignity of the institutions must also be placed as the limit and we must all put this problem together. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u57	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now quite clear that our bicameralism no longer exists, and certainly not because of Covid. The Government, more than the previous ones, has assumed in practice that the measures, especially those of greater importance, are examined by a single Chamber and that the other branch of Parliament which examines them subsequently must ratify them, since no more examination is allowed. This is a real contraction in the parliamentary debate and I hope that, at least on the re-launching decree-law, the Government will decide to change it. After the emergency, we immediately understood that the main concern is the economic crisis, which is certainly not remedied by this liquidity decree-law. Its name does not correspond to the actual content of the measure, which does not bring direct contributions and support to the various entrepreneurial activities in crisis, especially as regards agriculture, in which the crisis is structural and comes from afar and to which the emergency coronavirus has only given the blow of grace, especially in many chains. In this measure there are no interventions aimed at strengthening our production system to make it more efficient to face the present and future crises. If we do not force our companies and workers, we do not go anywhere. I have the feeling that the government has perched inside the Palace, has completely lost contact with reality and has not really realized what is happening. There has been a lot of talk of simplification, but both in the text of the Decree-Law liquidity and in that of relaunching, in 323 pages, 266 articles and 98 implementing decrees, there is no trace of it. With the Decree-Law liquidity we would have expected, according to what had been announced, immediate liquidity in the pockets of Italian companies and families, who have gone through one of the most difficult historical moments of our Republic. And instead, compared to all that noise of announcements, nothing has actually moved yet. For agriculture, initially there was a guarantee mechanism for SACE-based access to credit and only at a later stage was there added the guarantees provided by Ismea, which would appear to be intervening without assessing the credit quality, which currently hinders small applications, of less than EUR 25,000. The scarce resources made available are already exhausted in a few weeks. In fact, the government should have taken action to renegotiate the Basel Agreement, under which the criteria for prudential supervision of banks' capital requirements were too rigidly defined, so the Basel rules had to be discontinued in addition to the Stability Pact. The strict application of the Basel criteria means that many companies are at risk of not being able to access the funds made available by the State. In the absence of an in-depth discussion on prudential supervision criteria, it is considered insufficient to focus solely on the assessment of the resources available. It is by no means true that companies that have encountered greater difficulties are precisely and only those that were already in a situation of pre-existing suffering compared to the emergency Covid. This was because the measure under consideration provided liquidity to companies that suffered damage as a result of the emergency situation, while difficulties in accessing credit remained for those who already had a situation of suffering. What do we do, leave the last ones behind? Although the innovations introduced by the Italian Decree-Law on care have allowed agricultural enterprises direct access to the Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is important because it allows to overcome the limits of the guarantee of too short a time and rating, it has not yet had its full implementation. We'll see what happens in the next few weeks. Thanks to the above-mentioned rule, the State guarantee has been provided, which will allow a possible renegotiation of the loans and, therefore, an extension of the time limit for the repayment of capital. Thanks to an active procedure at Mediocredito, it will also be possible to provide a rating for agricultural companies. In the meantime, however, while the doctor is studying, the sick person dies. Not all this liquidity has yet reached the target audience. The answers of the credit institutions, questioned about the number of applications submitted, accepted and escaped, tell us that, out of over 500,000 applications, only 51% of the applications went well for loans up to 25,000 euros; while, for applications of higher amount (about 48,000), the result was very poor, since only a quarter of the applications went well and was accepted. So something doesn't work, and so we are told in the street demonstrations by the citizens, who today perceive a great damage to the nation, not wanted for a blocked activity not attributable to our companies. And all this happens while money has been paid out in Europe at once, while we have not yet seen this liquidity in June. Today, one million self-employed workers have not yet received the first tranche, while for the second tranche the decree again provides for a series of limitations in the request. We also have 2,600,000 employees still waiting for the integration fund. I wonder, therefore, with which companies the Government has interloquited and with which professional representatives it has confronted. To date we have 90,000 Italian companies that have not reopened; one in three on May 18 did not raise the screen. I believe that this does not make not only the members of our Parliament proud, but not even the majority, who once again say that it will be done in the future, that it could not be done better and that it has been done as much as possible. Italy and the Italians need to do the best they can, not the best they can. We must go further and, in order to do this, we do not even need to rely on consultants; for example, we saw additional costs for a cost of EUR 1,600,000 in the relaunch decree. We do not need new consultants. We already have too many. We do not need a great strategy: just talk to the categories and listen to those who complain problems and live them on their own skin. If the Government had done this listening work, perhaps it would have also understood, through the words of the entrepreneurs and of those who went to the bank to ask for a financing, that not only there are more or less twenty forms to fill out, but that, after this procedure at the bank, the bank must send it all to the SACE institute for a second evaluation. All this is an increase in bureaucracy which is not compatible with simplification and does not help to speed up a path that must be fast and effective at the moment. Cash and immediate availability of money: Italy needed this and Italy still needs it today. The decree lacks the overall vision; there is no foresight that the Government has been able to represent well in some press conferences; but then, in the translation of concrete acts, we have not been able to verify what the long-term vision is. The solution is to understand how we can help the small businesses that represent our economic fabric; how we can help the categories to pay the rents, to pay the bills, to pay the tax on the garbage. That is what people are asking for, and not because they want to lean on the state not to work, but because they want to continue to be able to do so. Unfortunately, Caritas are no longer able to escape all the demands of which they are submerged. Perhaps the government should try a little harder; it should have done so sooner and also allow the Senate to examine the measures and to accept all the measures that can improve the texts. The Italians want a free state in which companies and people have the opportunity to confront each other, to put themselves at risk and to work. If we want to help those companies get back competitive on European markets, we must also put them in a position to compete with those markets and companies around Europe. Italy is a very strong country. Italians are people of heart and courage and I think that, despite this Government, they will be able to get up again. PRESIDENT. - Senator Stefano is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Undersecretary, I too am aware - as are my previous colleagues - that the recent decrees under consideration, in addition to being vigorously and forcefully pressed by an objective necessity and urgency, actually give rise to a further need for simplification in the management of the times, which is likely to result in a sort of de facto monocameralism; a monocameralism of which we are also aware of the absolute exceptionality, so much so that - we are sure - starting from the next measure, the so-called relaunch decree, will be guaranteed the planned two readings of the two branches of which the Italian Parliament is composed. The same process of approval of this decree-law and the work that characterized it show, in fact, the importance and centrality of the parliamentary function in the legislative process. We have tried to build a joint initiative with our colleagues in the House to improve and strengthen the measure in our examination, to which we have, in some way, contributed, so much so that today we are discussing an improved text compared to the one fired by Palazzo Chigi, thanks to the parliamentary contribution that has been fed by the contribution of stakeholders and the whole system. The commitment of the Democratic Party in the parliamentary passage was measured by the unbearable bottleneck - to use the same words as Minister Gualtieri - in which the requests for funding that the same decree provides and disposes in favour of economic actors and businesses remained blocked. On this point, in fact, on the actual liquidity, there have been many improvements that take place along different directions. I am thinking of the extension of the beneficiaries' audience, which today includes in access to credit also the third sector, insurers, companies located in areas affected by earthquakes, those with public participation. And then I think of the extension of the term of repayment of loans with a 100% guarantee, which is increased from six to ten years, plus two pre-mortgage. However, I am also thinking of loans of up to EUR 800,000 guaranteed by the State, which can be repaid up to the end of thirty years. We are facing, in fact, a robust improvement intervention, much appreciated by the companies, which gives this plant a value of loyal drive to restart. Similarly, I do not forget and appreciate the increase in the amount that can be financed for loans, with a 100% guarantee, from twenty-five to thirty. Finally, I am thinking also of what I consider to be the most significant intervention of the measure, which has allowed the introduction of self-certification, which - I remember - stems from a work that has collected the considerations of the various actors heard at the hearing, as well as our drive towards a less rigid approach of the banking system. With self-certification, every alibi or pretext falls for those who do not want to collaborate in the economic recovery of our country. I am saying this because we have initially witnessed behaviours characterized by some inertia by some credit institutions, which have disregarded several points of the legislation in this regard, with the choice to proceed to the credit assessment for the requests for financing guaranteed totally by the State and with the application of higher interest rates than those envisaged, until we move to the compensation of the previous positions with the new credits, in order to requalify our portfolio: that is unacceptable. Today, therefore, with the choice - on the one hand - to simplify the procedures and - on the other hand, to make the actors responsible, I am convinced that everyone, at this delicate stage of the country, will be able to do their part, fully collecting what was the ratio of a legislative intervention expected and necessary. To put it out of the teeth, in fact, the legislator's effort to produce itself in the best possible standard runs the risk of being useless without a sincere contribution from the system, from all the actors of the system, not only to transpose the norm, but also to understand the need itself, the ratio that motivates its emanation. With this measure, then, we follow up on the commitment to support companies and workers, each with their families, in an unprecedented crisis and from which - it is clear now - we cannot save ourselves. It is good, therefore, to choose to put in place important guarantees for liquidity up to 400 billion in a European panorama that is, in turn, at the center of an important evolution, that we hope will become a real revolution, started with the adoption of the temporary framework and that sees on the carpet new and relevant instruments such as the Sure, the recovery fund, the health MES without conditions; a set of initiatives that has a goal that should be dear to everyone: repair and prepare for the next generation of Europe. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. Today we make definitive an important provision that, together with the decree cure Italy and the next I throw again decree, closes a sort of trilogy of the different phases that have marked the emergency from Covid-19. But there is another need now: we need to accompany, strengthen and, if necessary, further improve the measures put in place. We are called to start a new phase, because we also need a new address. The challenge before us will have to be measured on the ability to govern the processes of restarting, to live with the coronavirus and to rethink a model of development, taking advantage of the lessons imposed by the pandemic, among all that of the new technologies. We did an intelligent digital literacy operation that so many policies of previous governments had never grasped. Now we need a further step, starting from a comprehensive smart working law that broadens opportunities, changes work modes and also rethinks sustainable mode. Not only resources are needed, therefore: it is important above all a regulatory framework, because on smart working another fundamental battle of civilization is measured. I wonder: "Amplify or reduce gender differences?" This is a fundamental point, which also applies to industrial policy, the choice of what is strategic for our industry, for our country, starting, for example, from the automotive and new strategic guidelines, such as the car that responds to green policies and investments that guarantee more employment. Also with regard to European funds, let us stop arguing about their size, their size or whether they are lost funds or loans. Instead, let us make sure that the debate focuses on the project of what model of development and what idea we have of our country for the next twenty years. We have the moral obligation, here and today, to turn this crisis into an opportunity, to finally shake off the elephantic weight of the bureaucracy, but to do so really, to simplify the country system, to finally give legs to a strategic plan for Italy focused everything on its future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u60	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u61	Mr President, I will no longer dwell on the issue of trust, even if the matter of trust places one issue on the whole of Parliament. It is not a mortification of the opposition: it is an overall mortification, which puts us before the issue - of which I know that you, Mr President, are well aware - of what Parliament's regulations are, also with regard to new technologies and the way in which they are discussed. I do not know what the solution will be, but certainly this system that has taken place over the last ten years, also thanks to the new technologies, makes it always very difficult to carry out and conclude in both branches of Parliament the issues that are being discussed. All the more reason, in this case we are in an emergency that has determined the intervention through decree-laws and the obligatory closure. But already other colleagues, with majority and opposition, have dealt with this issue. I have already spoken yesterday on the question of the bureaucratic framework of our country. Today, however, I want to make another assessment. Days, hours - I don't know when - will be issued the proposal of the national reform program by the government. I would like to remind you that we have only approved part of the Economic and Financial Document, because at that time there was an emergency, and in that part it was referred to a later one. The first interventions are given by the three measures: the decree cure Italy, what we are discussing at the moment (the liquidity decree), and the decree raise (it is called this but I raise it is not: it is still intervention on the emergency). We must begin at the level of Parliament and political forces to assess the country as a whole, for example on the unemployment front, which exists, and the interventions made in the emergency on the demand side, to cover the need for liquidity, and on that of businesses. The intervention on liquidity for companies had essentially a contingent action, aimed at saving them at that time, but there was no talk of the future. Talking about investment liquidity, investment credit means looking ahead. In fact - but it applies to the majority as well as to the opposition: I can't just give a partisan reading on a matter like this - we have to have the courage to make the effort to read the country. Maybe then we will have different solutions, maybe then we will counter the solutions, but let's remember that we have a public debt of over 2,500 billion euros, a GDP down to 1,600 billion and a debt-to-GDP ratio of almost 160: a picture that imposes - on the one hand - the reading on the country system and - on the other - the reading on the state budget, to be credible at world level. If we are not credible, we are unable to stand up and make proposals, regardless of the membership and vision that we can have. Gentlemen, society has changed. The Covid-19 has completely changed a part of our society and our habits and we still can't read them. Beyond having abolished poverty with Di Maio or having filled the Italians with money, we must think about the restart, with the country reading, creating the conditions for investments, public and private. Hence the need for certain rules, clear and of course of a new society - and not of new societies, as is being done - precisely to try to accompany the country towards a new recovery. Let me make a joke. We will always repay the public debt, we will repay it with other debt, but we must stop the spiral of the debt-to-GDP ratio. The only action we can take is a strong intervention, like that of 1946, to increase gross domestic product and make the total amount of debt bearable. This means giving strength to the state, but also trusting the country. Trust in the country means public investment and private investment. [[Applause.]] 11:45 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u62	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u63	Mr. President. I shall begin with some oxymorons that came to mind during the debate on this measure. I would say that the slowness of timeliness makes the idea quite good; the rigidity of liquidity, also seems to me to catch well; finally, the imperfection of the perfect bicameralism. These three things are the extreme synthesis of what is happening, even with this decree-law, and not just with it. The problem these days - or rather yesterday - was the demonstrations of the streets, which were simply the democratic way of exalting democracy and participation, according to precise rules, of control, of order, of discipline and of a respectful protest. That's a good way. For thirty years I have been in the squares and, personally, I have never seen a disorder in a demonstration of the League. In fact, at best we had to defend ourselves from the attacks of those who came, violently, to want us heavily to attack. [[Applause.]] This is a civil way out of here, but we commit ourselves incredibly, from the opposition benches certainly, with all the work of amendment and attempt to interrogate. Unfortunately, the numbers say it; the numbers don't lie. What is collected by the Government of the work done by the opposition is practically zero; it is an amendment. [[Applause.]] This means that there is no will to listen, because the speech that is very close to the Premier's heart is political spite. Otherwise he wouldn't do communications like he does before the texts come out, and he would have another setting. However, having a different setting from the one you use would mean flying a little higher. Wings, however, have statesmen, of course, and not others. [[Applause.]] Unfortunately, however, listening skills are needed. In my opinion, at a time when oppositions, beyond the game of the parties - it is clear - carry forward well-built instances, which make sense and are decisive, one could carry them forward together. This is an act of intelligence. The fact that such instances are not accepted is another and is evidence of a weakness of the majority. I regret to say that the work of the Commissions becomes, simply, a temporal space that allows the forces of majority to quarrel better and to reach, in the end, a synthesis, usually a square blunder. [[Applause.]] In all this, then, the protagonists who decide are very few. So, all of us, who believe in what we do, really feel - as my colleague, Mrs Ferrero, said yesterday - about the members. It is, however, a sad theatrical play, because we are talking about the future of our country and about decisions that change the lives of people, families and workers. [[Applause.]] And I'm talking about those workers who, at first, responsibly shut down their activities, of course, but the priority was survival, the health of themselves, their families and their employees. Everyone has followed the rules, especially in the most affected regions. Then, however, when it was possible to reopen, what was done? It was necessary to invest immediately in order to prepare the sanitary devices, the parafiate barriers, the sanitizing gels and all the sanitization. This means investing for your business, but, unfortunately, since then, for the generality of the enterprises and the sectors completely blocked, no more e-mails of new orders have been sent. The firms are handling orders before the emergency, not new ones. Phones do not play in professional studios and this is a common reality for all workers. Therefore, I agree that we should not leave people behind, but perhaps, at this time, we should allow even more, for those who risk themselves in a business and give jobs to people, to be able to do so; otherwise, in a few months, the situation will be really difficult and many realities will not be able to reopen because there will be no conditions to do so. In my land, Lombardy, the province of Como, work means dignity; it is a profound value. There's a saying: he's a man, which means you let your hands go. It's a matter of dignity. People who can no longer support their families and children or have to lay off their employees are destroyed. We cannot act slowly: we need speed. We can't ask for acts of love from banks. [[Applause.]] What are we talking about? Simplification and timeliness are needed without excuse. So many people in the integration fund have not yet received a penny and have families to support and needs to be met; they have to think about how to get their children to go to school, school transport and a thousand other things. And we, on the other hand, are here to upset and deal with all this urgently, with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and other decrees, without understanding that we are massacring and chopping the country, including the institutions. All of us are institutions. [[Applause.]] There is only one reading of the measures always because there are quarrels in that space. Up to the last moment, there is a fight within the majority to have a square, while the minority is completely ignored. But is this the country we believe in? Do we follow the Constitution on which we studied? That's another thing. Then there are the news of last week's Chat at the CSM. This too gives a really very worrying rift about the preservation of our country's constitutional architecture. I had studied the balance between constitutional bodies, but here there is a revolution: it has become a Babel. I am not going to do this because - now there is urgency - this way of working has now become regular: there is only one reading. Nor can mistakes be corrected. This is a fact that does not exist. In this institutional marasma and in society it happens that we become a land of conquest, unfortunately, of those who are not our friends and of our country. [[Applause.]] In the best case are the foreign capitals that come to make incetta of our companies in difficulty and, in the worst case, is the organized underworld, with the usurers and the rest of a frightening world. We must fight this all together, otherwise our work will lose its full meaning. One of the most sacred places in our institutions cannot be degraded to the place of very squalid battles, too often done on people's skin. It doesn't have to exist. Mr President, let us go beyond the oxymorons and take into account what is really needed: simplification and timing. We've been saying this for weeks: people need help and money now. The controls will then be carried out and those who have been dishonest will be able to fish, but this country needs to leave now. Italians have always shown that they are able to tighten their teeth and move forward. We must design the architecture of a modern and not nineteenth-century country. We need to think about the future and no one can be behind it, because we can prove that we have excellence, intelligence and ability. Let's shake the weights we carry in the backpack on our shoulders. We can and must do this together with seriousness and strength. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Faith. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the liquidity decree. My speech comes to the conclusion of so many others that I have heard and I must say that often - in my opinion - the general conditions for the debate have been lacking, which I would like to reiterate. We are not talking about action determined by bad economic choices. We are not talking about political errors, we are talking about failures caused by inappropriate choices: we are talking about the emergency that we are experiencing, caused by a natural disaster, by a virus; we are talking about an attack, an invisible war that is not manifested by a bombing but that has been caused by a very small organism that has caused huge damage. With this assumption, which is fundamental, I would like to examine what has been said in this House. Many have criticized us for incoherence, for our actions and for not sharing. First, it is said that urgent action is needed, and we must be quick, to give immediate answers; then, when trust is used - an instrument that has always been widely used in this House, but never more appropriately as in a time of urgency such as the current one - it is said that there is no democracy. This is a contradictory speech. Secondly, we are talking about the contribution of opposition. Someone has been privileged to have participated, to have improved standards that are not done well. So we went through the House's reading and made some amendments to the first draft of the measure, through listening to and comparing them in the Commissions, and with the hearings. This contribution has made it an urgent tool and made it even better quickly. That same contribution, however, was never in the Regional Councils where our advisors could have said not to put contaminated patients in the RSAs; They could have said to invest resources on public facilities and not on fair hospitals or pavilions. The debate here took place thanks to the Government, whom I thank, to Parliament and to this majority, which has grown up. We were able to confront each other even in time of emergency. We are talking about measures which, in three months, have allocated resources which normally come into play with five budget laws; this is, therefore, a whole that has never been seen before. Moreover, in the spring of 2020 it seems that someone discovered that there is bureaucracy in Italy. Our institutional apparatus, which has existed for seventy-four years, i.e. since 1946, has accumulated a series of norms, provisions and measures that have made the Italian engine ever slower: because of many problems - from corruption to problems related to public procurement, inefficiency, to having preferred membership of merit - we put so much sand in the carts of an engine that was driven with sacrifice by the Italians who pay taxes to support an apparatus that has waste and costs. When we talk about making the apparatus itself faster and leaner and taking away the resources to devote them not to privileges but to citizens, we find opposition. Then, however, when it comes to making concrete proposals, everyone discovers the bureaucracy, this unknown one. I wonder if we're kidding. It is with this system, with these means and in these circumstances that we are talking about liquidity. We didn't find rivers of resources in the government's drawers. Someone describes budgets as a slot machine, where you just pull a lever to have cash falls. This money is not there, because our budget is the result of years of actions and bad choices that have put us at the last place between European GDP and the world. [[Applause]] The resources aren't there. When it comes to banks and the fact that the money went to banks, the amending contributions contain only protests, apart from some interesting proposals that are accepted. What is the alternative system? Why are there four hundred public investment banks in Germany? In that case you can act by giving directives that are implemented and that give money and immediate liquidity. These instruments, in Italy, do not exist. We searched the drawers for them. It looked like there had to be a push-button somewhere to get it all going. Gentlemen, that's not how it works. We have our responsibility, we assume our commitments. We've been in the government for two years, with different forces, but there are forces that have been here for twenty, thirty or forty years. 12 p.m. (Faith followed). And then we have to hear the criticism of those who could find the solution and, it has not done so for twenty years, when it ruled for ten years; and today it tells us, in emergency, in a situation of natural calamity, that we are not finding resources. Let's not be joking. Please, we're not kidding. We must be serious and concrete. [[Applause]] and stop blowing on the fire of a suffering nation: outside this House there are people who suffer; citizens, employees, workers, entrepreneurs, VAT matches that have really suffered from an emergency. We had to handle two emergencies: the first war was medical and was fought in the wards of hospitals, with doctors left without drugs, without DPI, without beds. You mean the others did. First of all, we were hit first in the world; in the western world, Italy was the first nation most affected in its productive heart, Lombardy, the one we care about like all other parts of Italy. If today we get to start again and live a summer season that will not be the one we have in the historical memory, but certainly a way to give oxygen, is because we have made limitations, with lockdown, that have prevented the spread of the virus, have safeguarded the intact areas, the one from which I come, where the cases are very low. But if there hadn't been a lockdown, the beds in my city would have been occupied by people from other cities. We are talking about autonomy, but this myth has been debunked, because we are talking about solidarity here. There is talk of support, including the much criticized citizenship income, but many people are surviving because of those measures. The resources provided for in these measures will be put in circulation to support the economy, because we are not isolated instruments: we are a single boat, indeed unfortunately a raft, as Italy has been reduced. However, we must work together together. These things were done by us. We often talk about fake news and it has been heard that President Conte appears on television and that announcements. Well, President Conte, like the Government and the majority, worked. Other forces are also recognized internationally to be Fake News Generator, finished in the international rankings. Alas, like this ranking, leaders who rule other nations have underestimated the situation and have not managed it as we have done. But now they're much worse off than us, who left earlier. We are starting again, but there are still suffering nations that have not found solutions by not adopting our principles. I therefore believe that we have done a very good job. I do not list all the measures that have been taken, because in this long and profound debate we have discussed them thoroughly and have listed them all. The 400 billion, the decree-law liquidity, the decree-law growth and the decree-law relaunch are real measures; and resources were sought in the budgets where there were no, with great sacrifice. We are also looking for them in Europe with a credibility that is now recognised internationally, because we place ourselves as serious, competent and credible people. Credibility is our value and we work on it. We can be confidently proud. Perhaps "fieri" is too big a word and you can never be proud when you conduct a battle and we are conducting a battle: there are deaths, people who suffer, businesses that have great difficulties that we are aware of. We must work hard to give them the best solutions under these difficult conditions to think of a better future that we will face together with courage. I hope that, even in this assembly, majority and oppositions can work together, as perhaps has not happened so far, even in recent times. With regret I think of Portugal, where the opposition leader said that today there is war and so they work together, and tomorrow they will consider policies, problems and mistakes, but not today. So let's move on with trust. The comparison was there. The measure has been improved: many solutions have been found, certainly not all of them; we will have to find others and we will have to continue the work. But we are here to work for Italian citizens and we will continue to do so with pride, dignity and in the general interest. That is why I thank all my colleagues, the Government and all those who have contributed to the measures put in place. Let's keep working. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u66	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u69	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the Autonomous Group will vote in favour of this measure, which has been considerably improved in the course of its discussion in the House. This is proof of the importance of Parliament's work, although, again this time, we have to ratify what has been done in the House. It is a well-established practice, but it is an unacceptable habit, and I hope that in future the Government will rethink this point. Moreover, thinking of the next decree-law relaunch - a provision that is worth two budget laws - if there will be two complete readings by both Chambers, I also see profiles of unconstitutionality. [[Applause.]] I repeat: I really hope that the government will rethink this point. It is also regrettable that, on an important measure such as this, decree-law liquidity (since I do not know how many other measures of this importance will be approved in this legislature and it is understood that I am pleased that you, Madam Undersecretary, are here with us), even as a form of respect the Minister is not present to discuss with us the rules. On the subject, I believe that the best news is to lighten the bureaucratic burden in order to speed up access to resources by companies. Well, then, the novelties concerning self-certification, the stop to reporting to the central of the risks; also the exclusion from the responsibility for the companies that adopt properly health safety protocols. Equally important is the accounting standard for the tourist-hotel sector with the free revaluation of business assets and holdings resulting from the financial statements at 31 December 2019. This is another element in favour of the sector, although we know that the big issue is linked to the reactivation of the tourism market, and therefore to full free movement at European level. As the most recent data remind us, this sector, like the construction sector, is the most exposed to the risks of insolvency. Well, the commitment that the government is putting on this front, but it is clear that, after the sudden Austrian reverse, we also need a commitment from the European Commission, in addition to that of the Government and what, in our small, we, as a border area, try to place in our negotiations with the Austrian Government. Schengen is a right of European citizens and today nothing justifies its suspension. Returning to the measures, equally significant is the enlargement of funding and the repayment times for businesses, starting with those guaranteed to 100% by the state. The switch from 25,000 to 30,000 euros and from six to ten years for the refund is not a negligible element; but even more important is the point concerning the return to thirty years for loans - up to 800,000 euros - to companies with high turnover volumes. It is a temporal perspective that well represents the type of aid that the system needs, that is debt that does not recover in a short time as a ballast on the activities of the enterprises. Important is also the rule that connects the financing to the commitment to the non-delocalization of the enterprises, that ideally connects to the measure previewed in the decree-law care Italy that has strengthened the protection, for the productive tissue and the strategic fields, from eventual hostile climbs. The decree-law that we are about to convert also has the merit of having extended its measures to the third sector, which was mistakenly forgotten in the first phase, and of having thought of the world of craftsmanship with the freezing of loans. It is clear, however, that this funding requires a radical change of pace on the part of banking institutions. Many banks are working with rigour and speed, but there are many others that, unfortunately, are giving rise to very slow instructors (18 documents), as the entrepreneurs denounce, even when it comes to 100% state guaranteed funding and that do not require credit assessment. Of course, thanks to the complaints of entrepreneurs, their negotiating power has been strengthened in the text, but the real point is that banking institutions cannot frustrate the efforts of the State and the institutions, but they are called to protect the productive system, which should also fall within their interests. This is all the more true if we think that the requests for a moratorium from households and businesses continue to rise and reach 2.4 million euros, with loans worth 250 billion. Numbers to tremble the wrists, as well as those of today's ISTAT on unemployment, which well make the gravity of the situation and the effort that everyone is called upon to make. That is why, Mr Secretary-General and Mr President, we believe that the way in which we spend the resources that will come from Europe will be decisive. We are talking about massive figures, which are worth seven or eight budget maneuvers and which are also a unique opportunity to rethink economic and development models. In my view, we must strongly feed domestic demand, with strength and courage, for example through a significant reduction in VAT for a certain period, because this measure would feed domestic demand and would mean that, above all, small and medium-sized salaries, which today are almost all spent on consumption, would have the greatest benefit. To this extent, I would like to insist and ask the Government very strongly. I will not do that here, I will not go any further, but for me this is a crucial point for the next steps, which the Government is preparing. I also insist on what I have already said here: we must not exaggerate with welfare measures, but we must focus on those areas that act as economic multipliers and, at the same time, Italy must equip itself to improve its spending capacity. Public administration is called for an extraordinary effort and a qualitative leap, because it would be unacceptable to see what has happened with European funds in the past: there are nine billion euros not spent in the last programming. In conclusion, I believe that the decree-law in question, issued close to the first emergency measure, has a fundamental role to play. Exactly as the liquidity decree will have to be the shore of the decree cure Italy, now we need a decree for simplifications, which represents the second half of this measure. There, too, we will need the same courage and conviction that guided some of the changes, starting with the self-certification rule, which finally meets the demands of all of us. In order to do so, of course, we will need a Parliament which will fully rediscover its centrality and which can play, especially at a complex stage such as the one we are experiencing, as the Constitution demands and attributes to it. It is with this strong hope that I will reiterate the Group's support for the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u72	MARINO (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr Senators and Senators, the mind runs to 8 April: less than sixty days have passed since the adoption of the measure to our examination, as is clearly required by the decree of urgency, but in the meantime the world has changed. There is the image of April 8 and the silence broken only by the song that rose from the balconies and there is the image of June 4, today, when the world is divided, with much more difficulty. Today we are in the process of converting to law, which is in fact a mere act of the work done in the Chamber of Deputies. It is a job well done, because I would say that the decree came out better than it had entered. The liquidity decree is the second measure of an economic nature, which must be read in the combined with the decree cure Italy and in the perspective of the decree relaunch, which has begun its parliamentary journey in these days, in the Chamber of Deputies. In other words, more instruments and more measures have been put in place, which, like mosaic tiles, define a framework, which wants to be the answer to heartfelt questions. How are we going to cope with the deadlines? How are we going to pay employees, suppliers and taxes? What will be the reopening protocols? These were the heartfelt questions, which we felt to ask ourselves in the many video conferences and webinars that were held at this time and to which we tried to give answers, first from the government and then from the majority. Personally, I am satisfied with the significant contribution that has been made to its improvement by the Italia Viva-PSI Group, whose amendments have followed three lines of action, aimed respectively to simplify and speed up the procedures for the provision of credit, to widen the audience of those entitled and to make the cost of credit less costly. I do not repeat specifically what I have already extended yesterday. I would like to mention, however, the introduction of self-certification, which involves greater responsibility on the part of the applicant, but also less supervision on the part of intermediaries. This puts the issue of speed at the centre, because it is a really important variable in order to make the action of the Government incisive. It is clear - as I mentioned yesterday - that the time taken for the measures taken by the Government is different depending on their nature: on the one hand there are the moratories, which were immediately operational; on the other hand, other types of measures have encountered many difficulties in explaining their effects, as clearly emerges from the results of the questionnaire sent by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the financial banking system. This questionnaire provided for a number of questions. I quote only one, updated to 20 May, concerning requests for loans under EUR 25,000: applications submitted about 559,000; received and paid 290,000, 51.8% of cases. On the other hand, loans above EUR 25,000: presented at EUR 48,000; received and paid at EUR 11,663, 24.1 percent of the cases. The questionnaire also asked what was the relationship with previous loans, commission interests, the request for a moratorium on loans and real estate loans. I was expecting, on the one hand, more comforting results, starting with bureaucracy, which, in my opinion, has not yet understood and has not yet adapted to the current emerging dimension. The virtuous pronunciations of the task force are not enough; we need the directors of the branch to act with speed and that is what the country asks. Nevertheless, I allow myself to suspend my judgment on this point. We consider it a photograph and we think in positive terms. There has been a sign of a change in the rules in the context of conversion and there will be a need to take a new photograph, with attention also to the territorial division of disbursements. People want to start over and they want certainty. Yesterday, the Undersecretary of War pointed out that many had been undervalued in the debate of the term "liquity".He is absolutely right and we of Italy Viva remember proudly that we had long supported how the liquidity was necessary to start again, because the costs remain fixed, but the revenues fail; we already said so with Matteo Renzi in an interview that I went to see yesterday on March 27, which was then also much criticized by those who did not grasp the perspective meaning. The theme was not whether to die of coronavirus or starve to death, but to prepare ourselves for restarting with necessary advance, because in politics - let me say - I think that sometimes it is necessary to have a little vision. A historian tells the facts, a politician tries to predict and condition them and I think this difference is fundamental. Last Friday, Governor Visco, in his final remarks, painted two scenarios: a baseline scenario, which predicted a decrease in GDP of 9%, even higher than the next two steps 2008-2013, and another scenario, which was not catastrophic, but still more negative, which assumed a decrease in GDP of 13%. We now have the biggest drop in Italian income since World War II. Now we must avoid an escalation: first the health crisis, then the GDP crisis and then the financial crisis. Look at the fact that the financial crisis can be avoided through funding from the European Union and the ECB, but under certain conditions, that is, that all these funds must be exploited. And when I say all I mean from the new credit line of the ESM for 36 billion, immediate, without conditionality and that saves us 700 million per year of interest, on which just yesterday was presented by Italy Viva a concrete plan of expenditure and proposal. Concrete and clear proposals to tell us how we can use those 36 billion: a plan that exults from the dry lines of demagogy, ideology and populism. But there are other tools as well. There are almost 20 billion for the EIB's businesses, there are almost 20 billion of the Sure on the European Unemployment Fund, there is the Recovery fund, or rather the Next generation fund, which has been submitted to the European Commission: a fund with the task of issuing recovery bonds with the European Union's budget guarantee, composed - we all know - of both funding and money lost. The problem, however, is that this supply is over time, but in Italy there is a hurry and we must react immediately, before autumn, when the closure - or not reopening - of almost a third of the companies will be at risk. We must therefore begin to discuss everything immediately, starting - as Mrs Conzatti reminded us yesterday - from the national reform plan, which is a fundamental tool for dialogue with the European Union, oppositions and social partners. We must begin to write together the future of Italy through reforms of public administration, civil justice, work, tax, school, welfare, health and - last but not least - infrastructure, physical and digital. I recall, in this regard, the stimuli that Italy Viva provided to the Government to relaunch the earliest possible match of investments in infrastructure. In the Italian shock plan we have shown that in Italy 120 billion euros have been allocated, but not spent, for infrastructural works. Italy shock speaks of work, which is also for the smallest: economic growth and development of the country means guaranteeing a better life perspective to the new generations, whose future we are partly mortgaged, just us, with the increase of the debt to which we are forced today. Compared to other countries, we face this crisis a little'sharp. We did distribution earlier when the others were thinking about investing. Yesterday we listened to President Conte's commitments, which go in the right direction. Now we must move from words to facts: let us transform the crisis into a real opportunity for change for Italy, knowing - as Ilaria Capua wisely says in her last book - that we must assume a new mental map and that - as Tom Nichols explains - the age of competence has returned. We will not be found unprepared, aware that the future of young people is at stake, to which we must look with hope and trust; the future of the country is at stake. These are the reasons and conditions for which Italia Viva-P.S.I. He will vote on the government's vote of confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u75	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Lord of the Government present here, I believe that this decree-law liquidity well represents the current majority and the current Government, in the most complete way, from an almost iconographic and aesthetic point of view. Let's think of President Conte's statements, when - as many colleagues have remembered - he launched the bazooka of credit and promised to the Italians billions (400 billion credits to the enterprise system). Unfortunately, this was not the case and we pointed out it at the beginning: just a few hours and a few minutes after President Conte said these things, doing a simple analysis that any university student can do, we noticed that there was something wrong and that, behind those promises, there was in fact a deception - beautiful and pure, unfortunately - towards that economic system that so much needs help and credits, that at that moment had felt almost reassured and that today, sixty days later, it collided with reality. Why this? 400 billion credits, lords of the government, by simple economic laws, provide guarantees for at least 40 billion. The leverage generated by the guarantees can have, when it's okay, a multiplier effect of eight, ten, eleven or twelve (at best). I remember that the crisis is certainly not one of the best moments for the Italian economy and therefore the default prospects or the prospects that the company's ability to repay is certainly higher; predicting a multiplier effect of ten would already have been an optimistic forecast. Those 400 billion were clamoring for and shouting out 40 billion guarantees, not the billion 750 million you put on the guarantee fund, plus another billion by changing nature to a SACE fund. With those two billion and a little more that you put at the base of the liquidity decree, you could guarantee some credit for about 20-25 billion. With the data we now have almost final, you will see that the government has been consistent from a certain point of view, because then it could have declared 20-25 billion and today, after almost 60 days, the value of the practices that have been approved is equal to about 20-25 billion (other than 400 billion). The numbers are clear and we've seen them. I and my colleagues who, like me, are part of the Banking Investigation Commission, have been confronted with the liquidity task force and we have seen that the numbers speak of about 500,000 questions or a little more, in the simplest automatic hypothesis, i.e. loans of up to 25,000 euros. I would remind you that these 500,000 applications are 10% of the Italian VAT lot; so already the fact that, at such a difficult time, only 10% of the VAT lot has decided to resort to this measure some questions should be put to us. Of these 500,000 applications have been approved (and in some cases the loan has been partially paid) just over half, that is, just over 250,000. In numerical terms, it means that some 5 billion loans to our SMEs have been approved. With regard to loans over EUR 25,000, for which the guarantee is not more than 100%, the practices are even less: if in the first case we talk about 500,000 practices, in this other case we talk about 47,000-48,000 practices arrived, of which not half, but only a quarter has been approved, i.e. about 12,000 positions have been approved. Here, too, we can add more or less five billion loans; with five in the first case and five in the second, we have a total of 10 billion. Then there is SACE's intervention on larger companies; in this case, thanks to the support you have guaranteed to FCA (i.e. Fiat) without any conditionality, with 6-7 billion loans, the amount increases a bit and, adding to some other practice, brings the total sum relative to SACE to about 10-15 billion. Here are the 25 billion or so I was talking about, which confirms how you have put in guarantees that you can give a maximum of 20-25 billion credits. This is the confirmation, in fact, of what you have lied to the Italians, promising, with guarantees of two and a half billion, 400 billion credits to companies. If that is the way to do it, if you have the courage to put trust even on such a deceptive measure, then it really means that not only do we no longer respect the constitutional and parliamentary rules, as my colleagues have repeatedly said and as my colleague Mr Zaffini said before about confidence, but we also fail to understand what should be a relationship of respect and education not so much towards parliamentary colleagues, as those artisans, those traders and those industrialists to whom in these hours you have only been able to answer that they are tax evaders. You have made professionals angry: all professional orders, just in these minutes, are talking on the web to complain about this Government. But the orders of the professionals were not enough; even Confindustria said that this Government perhaps hurts more than the virus. But then doesn't the entire Italian economic and productive world understand you or is it just us who want to highlight how it doesn't work? You see, Mr President and Lords of the Government, the representative of the 5 Star Movement, in the course of the debate on trust, said with candid innocence that the question of trust has always been raised. Ah, it's always been posted. Am I wrong or do I seem to remember that you were just the first to raise your tones, your voice and also other against these working methods? It is clear, however, that we must continue in this way. He has also said that we regret that he has not found the funds; we do not regret not having found the funds, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we regret that we did not know how to spend them well and that we were not able to get them to the Italian production system, which is quite different. In fact, you have found the funds, as no one else has ever found them: also thanks to the active contribution of the centre-right, which has allowed you in this House to make a budgetary deviation in order to reach a total of EUR 80 billion on the three maneuvers; I repeat, thanks also to us, that we have put three budgetary maneuvers in your hands. No other political force has had the monetary and financial availability that you have today. Don't tell us things that aren't true. You have the money, but you're wasting it on energy that doesn't do any good. You're making a distribution that wants to give everything to everyone and doesn't give anything to anyone. You didn't understand that the bureaucracy system of this country - which you have worsened, moreover, with your judicialist delusions in the first and second Conte government - has paralysed it; simplification, code of procurement to be stopped, but where are the interventions that serve the country? That's what you're asking; you've got the money, we've given it to you, all together. It is you - I repeat - who did not know how to spend them and, moreover, you did not even have the ability to interpret the sentiment of the people of VAT matches, of those 5 million VAT matches that represent the future of the country. Gentlemen of the Government, we charge you with welfare not because it is not necessary to recognize - as a force of the Social Right says - the weakest categories as much as it is due to them, but because, in order to really help the weakest, we must help businesses, artisans, traders, industrialists, those who can offer work to these categories and not the income of emergency or citizenship. Brothers of Italy will always be with anyone who wants to create work and economy, maintaining the Italian production system. With this reflection I conclude my speech, clearly announcing the contrary vote, the distrust of the Brothers of Italy to the Government, knowing that they do not represent only our electorate because in the distrust and in our vote against we express much of the Italian people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u78	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will vote for confidence in the measure we are considering. As you know, the vote of confidence is a double vote, it is a vote on the government, on which we, as a part of the majority, clearly put all our trust, a government that has put itself on the shoulders of the country - let me use, President, this somewhat rhetorical formula - at a time of great difficulty, perhaps the most difficult moment in the history of the Republic. It is also a positive vote on the substance of the measure. We think that the so-called liquidity decree is a piece of a mosaic that has been built by the Government and the majority certainly not without difficulties and that it includes some pillars around which the measures put in place in these difficult weeks and months revolve. I am thinking of the whole chapter of income support, of all measures for the significant financing of the integration fund, the ordinary one, the one by way of derogation, rather than all measures to support the most disparate categories of the economy, society and the world of work of this country. I am thinking of the VAT bonus, which has been so distracted in the public debate, with regard to the size of which we too have expressed some reservations. However, these measures have proved absolutely necessary in the time we live in, and this is the first part of the strategy of the first phase of phase two, to use the expressions used in the political and journalistic debate. This is also the case with the whole chapter on tax measures, in part contained in the relaunch decree. Then there is the whole game of the resources lost and finally, but not by order of importance, the issue we are dealing with, exactly that of access to credit. I will not dwell on the details. In general discussion and just now, in some of the previous speeches, I have listened to a number of Members commenting on some significant aspects that we have also played our part in. I am thinking, for example, of the subject of self-certification and the fact that the combination of the simplification aspect and the idea that a dedicated current account has been built convinces us to the extent that the aspect of simplification is put together, and therefore the possibility of accessing this opportunity as quickly and as easily as possible, with an idea of transparency and reporting. In fact, we must never forget that we live in a country that, alas, is still afflicted in many of its parts and also in entire segments of its economy by opaque dynamics, if not even by issues that have to do with criminal phenomena or mafias. Having combined the two elements that I have mentioned is therefore important, just as we believe it has been a useful step to imagine that from the Sace guarantee are excluded, for example, the companies that directly or indirectly control companies and companies that reside in countries and territories so-called non-cooperative in terms of taxation. Of course - and from this point of view, if you will allow me, there is one element of disappointment that will go in some way and that will be a topic to be discussed - this does not eliminate the risk that some measures may fall on those companies that are based in tax havens. This is a great issue, which of course cannot be dealt with unilaterally as a country in its worthy struggle in solitude; it must be dealt with in a European framework, but we cannot fail to see that there is also a question of this kind. Similarly, we cannot fail to see that there is an issue on which we demand transparency and on which we have also tabled an agenda, at the first signature of Senator De Petris. I am referring to the fact that there are groups of companies which, from our point of view, must have the obligation to report, as transparent as possible, in relation to their budgets, in relation to profits net of taxes, in relation to tangible and intangible assets, in relation to their real employment dimension. In other words, there cannot be an entity that is the target of the huge measures that we put on the field on the level of resources, but that escapes to a photograph that we are not able to take simply because this entity is lost in the architecture according to which a group is built in its ramifications and its articulation in different countries and in different territories. All this cannot exist: it is a matter of transparency, but above all it is a matter of effectiveness of the measures that are being taken. This is the picture of the measure we are examining. But let me say, Mr President, that there is a political issue. I have listened to the debate of my fellow Members, and particularly that of my colleagues in the opposition, and there is something that is not right. In fact, we have before us a frightening economic and social crisis, the one that is already under way but above all the one that will come. The figures for the last few hours show 271,000 fewer employed in a single month: this alone impresses with what is being determined. We are talking about a picture of less employed people relative to fixed time and self-employment, so we are not looking at that fact that will inevitably explode when we remove the obligation, which we have rightly imposed, compared to the need not to proceed with dismissals until 17 August, a measure that I personally would like to prolong a little longer. 12:41 a.m. (Follows LAFORGIA). If this is the framework before us, the words of our President-in-Office of the Council are important words, which the President of the Council has never forgotten in recent months: an appeal, a call for responsibility, both of opposition and of the social forces. That responsibility - I say it with great respect - was perhaps also recalled here, with self-signalations of willingness to collaborate by the opposition; but I would have liked it to be manifested on that day, which has always been historically the day that unites the country, which instead the opposition interpreted as a day of part, that is, June 2, the Feast of the Republic, in which someone even assumed the right to divide a square, which instead had to unite. I say this because I never thought that the opposition should be censored with respect to its own positions, but we do not get out of it unless we are informed by this element of institutional unity, which must unite us in understanding how to proceed. It's worth three questions to me. First of all, there is an idea - let me tell you - that is a little curious, that is winding up in some sectors of the economy and the business world of this country, to which some political forces are trying to signal themselves as capable of representing that voice. It is a sort of confinish neokeynesism, the idea that the state must intervene massively, with important measures, but it must be absolutely invisible in relation to the constraints on those economic commitments. No, that's not how it works. The measures that we are putting in place, even the next ones, from my point of view, Mr President, must be informed by this criterion: the maximum universality for measures for people (because we cannot even run into the paradox that we allocate EUR 55 billion and there are certain categories that are discovered, that is, people who do not receive this money), but the maximum conditionality for resources for businesses. Businesses may even receive grants, but when they receive them they must say what commitments they have to make in terms of recruitment, investment, the possibility of not relocating and so on. This for me is a reference, through the rules, to the theme of the ethics of responsibility. The second question has been raised here. I would like to address you, Mr President, and through you to my esteemed colleague Mr De Bertoldi. Senator De Bertoldi should not quote the President of Confindustria in support of his political thesis; he should first, as we did, be outraged, beyond the merit of the issues raised by the President of Confindustria, for the fact that we were faced with an attack on the autonomy of politics. [[Applause.]] In fact, to say that politics has done more harm than the Covid-19 is first and foremost an attack on the autonomy of Parliament and politics as a whole. What I would like to hear in this country are new, different words, even from those who cannot pretend not to be a part of the ruling class of this country, because it is. The big companies, but also the small ones, in any case those organized within large associations of category are a part of the ruling class of this country and it cannot be imagined that the way out of the crisis is made by a barter between growth and rights, perhaps asking the workers for a further reduction of their protections. In conclusion, President, just a few seconds to say that we need a country idea. I'm also telling my government, even my majority. So far we have made legitimate and necessary buffer decrees to prevent the boat from sinking, now we need to put a project, a country idea. Someone said you don't have to go back to normal, because normal was the problem. I share this expression: normality was made up of inequalities; it was made up of disinvestments in the field of public school, training, university and research. Let us then enter the new time that we have before us with a much higher ambition than what we have put in the past, in order to build, precisely, a more just one. It is not rhetoric: I think that is exactly what our fellow citizens expect. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u81	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, I have listened carefully to the speeches of my colleagues from the various parliamentary groups and I would like to contribute in my words to the recuperation of the truth of the situation. Some intellectuals speak, compared to what we have experienced, not only us Italians but the whole planet, as a story capable of periodizing. In the history of our civilization there have been events that have periodized, such as world wars and wars. The pandemic, unfortunately, has also seasoned, between before and after. This is to say what it is, what we are dealing with as a response and reaction to the depth of a breakup of civilizations. Some intellectuals describe it just like this: breaking civilizations about individual and collective habits in leading life. Humankind is recognized for its closeness and proximity; we have had to renounce proximity and closeness. Economic activities, cultural activities and educational activities have been interrupted. There are data that describe this situation and that are really scary. Compared to the event of war, which the history of our civilization has accustomed us to know, what are the elements in common? Exactly, the cessation of activities, the distribution of fear without borders and then, again, the deaths. In comparison to the war there is less noise, but, even, it has been said that the silence of a few weeks has made noise here. What has our Government, the Government of Italy, the Member State of the European Union, put in place? At the beginning, the decree-law takes care of Italy, then, the decree-law liquidity, which we are dealing with, and then again the decree-law relaunch, which is being processed. And the first pages of another measure, which will simplify, are also beginning to be outlined. It cannot be denied that the decree-law, of which the House has taken responsibility to make sure that it is enriched with respect to the product of the Government, is an instrument that has allowed how fundamental it was demanded by the enterprises in the weeks that we have behind and also in this time that we have before: the recovery of liquidity. The liquidity put in place is a liquidity that plays on the triangle of guarantees: the Sace guarantee; the role - also re-stated - between Sace and Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, for example regarding internationalization; the distinction between liquidity products up to 25,000 euros and over 25,000 euros (the numbers were quoted with competence by those who spoke). We have reached 500,000 questions, to date, made by the system of companies in relation to the legal system. The work of the House was a work of discernment and improvement. The contractual duration has been extended from six to ten years with regard to the recovery of the financial product allowed; as well as the loans, increased from 25,000 to 30,000 euros, and on this we already have the smoothness of important numbers. Numbers happen every day. But let's examine the merits. Why, after a certain amount of time, has the supply of these products for very small businesses begun to function? Why did it start working? This formidable article 1-a should be written as well as what we find written about the teachings of our Fathers. We find the institution of self-certification defined in Article 1-a. What is this? Is it a product of the police station to the civic uses of Foggia (an office that no longer exists and that has caused much annoyance from the Middle Ages until the twentieth century) or is it an instrument that facilitates, simplifies and creates friendship between the State, the enterprises, the proceduralization and the answer to the question and puts downstream the control that has been done upstream for too long, killing? Control, when done upstream in any proceduralization, kills; it does not allow, it does not recognize, but it destroys. Article 1-a, wishing then to do a work of intellectual honesty, could be written in the outgoing decree-law; for this it is necessary to consult Parliament. If it is not done, it is remedied by doing so because parliamentary work is not the work of a counterpart: it is a tug of rope that improves because it feeds on the data of experience. [[Applause.]] In this Assembly a gentleman has been seated who has contributed so much to the regulatory, administrative and also jurisdictional activities: his name was Silvio Spaventa and it has nothing to do with the economist Spaventa. He stated that the legislative resolution is not the norm: once the law is deliberated in order to become the norm it must meet the reality and must produce functioning. To make the operation happen, there are also maintenance, adjustments and clarifications. The enlargement of the audience of recipients to include freelance professionals, associations, brokers and those who undertake every day is a good thing. Richard Florida has taught us that the economy makes the big groups, those who internationalize, make the traditional figures, but also the creative and innovative figures, those of the talent and also with respect to them is covered by the decree-law liquidity. In this measure we must also recognise the effort, for example, to ensure that those who enjoy and are recipients of financing measure also have obligations in relation to the size of the collective: you cannot relocate if you obtain SACE guaranteed resources; You can't not have fiscal cooperation as a reference site; it can't happen that a company is financed by the public money if you then operate in a territory that doesn't work on the tax side. Even self-declaration does not override the obligation of anti-mafia and referred to tax correctness. In short, we are faced with a product that can work even more if we give it time and if we remove this conflict that too often enters the field and does not give rise to the proportionality of the conduct of those who engage in political activity. I also want to find the signal, the message and the words of the President of the Republic. There is a fourth component to make economic recovery. I am referring to trust, which does not feed on words that destroy every step of the way, up to the point of uncertainty as to whether or not there is that instrument. ( [[Applause]] ). We have reached a point where the words of certain opposition tend to erase the existence of the instrument. It happened to me that I came from the twentieth century and I receive the citizens as they did in the twentieth century. They asked me: "But is it true that there isn't? Is it true that the measures up to EUR 25,000 and up to EUR 800,000 are invented in the press? Is it true that it is not possible and that it is all advertising? This happens for the battage that has entered the field. We know that the problems have not disappeared and that there are still problems. I am in the Committee of Inquiry into Banks and we see, for example, what is the deal with the intermediate product, that is, up to EUR 800,000, where the guarantee is not total. There credit is cultivated and educated. There is a difficulty, so much so that the numbers are not gigantic, and we have to work to improve again, for example on the other big game that is simplification. On simplification we avoid flooding the activity of rethinking, from the gigantography of the commissioner everywhere, because Italy has met commissioners everywhere. Do you remember the Colombians of 1992 and how the commissioners ended up everywhere? The same thing happened in 1994 and 1996. I operate in a region where there are four commissioners. [[Applause]] The Commissioner is fine when it is necessary, but for the reordering of administrative procedures and the timing of the proceedings to be carried out, it is necessary for the task of the person responsible for this administrative activity to have a start and an end. Skills in the public administration must be re-established, work must be recognised, when it is marked by complexity, a dedicated and verified training must be activated, so it is much more complex than installing here and there a giant of the public decision because we could also split and destroy the Italian order. I say to the punctual colleagues of the opposition: there is something to be improved but let us remember that we are in a breakdown of civilizations. In ancient Greece they said that the distinction between the best and the idiots is made on the assessment of proportions. The size of the problems must give rise to a proportionate reading. A proportionate reading of the seriousness of the situation and the appropriate responses cannot be mistaken. Let us take account of what has happened, let us take into account the planetary dimension of the problem. That's how we're gonna do our job. It is for this reason that we vote in favour not only of the measure but also for the continuity of the government's work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u84	FERRO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Under-Secretarys for their attention. Thank you, Professor Guerra, you are usually very careful but you were distracted for a moment. No more words. In Rome we continue to speak and Tito Livio reminds us in his Stories that: "Dum Romae consulitur, Saguntum expugnatur" or, if we want to get to more recent times, I could quote the song of Mina: "Words, words, words." [[Applause]] A "bazooka of 400 billion"; don't laugh, Undersecretary (I don't remember his name), because there is nothing to laugh about: the situation is dramatic. Maybe we live in different countries. You had the employment figures reduced yesterday, we continue to talk, we talk about ourselves as happened a while ago, with the interventions of the majority. How many companies will remain closed after September? How many companies won't reopen? The appropriation of €400 billion was declared in magna pump, to favor of cameras, in one of the usual evening meetings of the President Conte: a bazooka to give liquidity to the companies. It was yet another virtual operation, like last night's. Of real money there are few, very few; in the end it is an evanescent operation. The work we are doing in the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system has been mentioned several times, including by my colleagues in the majority. The data is dramatic. If we then unravel them to refer them to the territories of our country, we see that the figure is even more worrying in those parts of the country that would need more than others to raise. Words, words, words. Did it make sense to build a colossal media operation like the one announced, which eventually increases the sense of frustration, increases the discouragement in entrepreneurs, in workers themselves, in families? We need more clarity. It dates back to last night yet another appeal to the best forces in the country. Is that another task force? The much-remembered Colao where did he go? What are you producing? Did he do something? Can you tell us anything? [[Applause]] President Conte asks for cooperation with the opposition. Well, we're here. Who saw him, Colao? What are you doing? The numerous task forces and the 500 people you've involved what they're producing. [[Applause]] , since everyone's complaining? You mentioned Confindustria, but do we want to talk about other trade associations, trade unions, VAT matches and professional orders? We give concrete answers, we go down to the ground and we go among the people to hear what he says. [[Applause]] Senator Faith and Senator Laforgia contested our demonstration, but it was a demonstration around the Tricolor of Italy; there were no party flags. [[Applause.]] You do not give us the opportunity to speak, because you are still asking the question of trust, but you are asking for cooperation. We do not do what has been done in previous legislation, that is to say to occupy various benches and scenes, colleagues of the 5 Stars: we are a responsible opposition, but give us the opportunity. To be objective, I cannot fail to mention the fact that the text has been improved, thanks also to the work of the Members of Parliament of Forza Italia in the Chamber of Deputies: funding from EUR 25,000 to EUR 30,000, the famous ten years for depreciation. But let's remember one thing, gentlemen: we're talking about loans, we're talking about debts. [[Applause]] ; we are not talking about liquidity sic et simpliciter. If you don't keep the industrial model (you, Mr. Undersecretary, are a teacher, so I don't need to remind you), if the system doesn't spin, if the industrial and operational business doesn't spin, you can offer all the liquidity you want, but one doesn't take it because it doesn't see the future. More realistic solutions were to be found, and it is a pity that we were not given the opportunity, because our amendments - alas, entirely backed up by a vote of confidence - could have made some further improvements to the text. In the famous 400 billion euros let us remember that there are 200 billion SACE guarantees that have always been there: there have always been 200 billion SACE guarantees to support our exports. You put them in the cauldron - but so much everything is fine, Madame Marquise - but the situation is absolutely not this. Another important issue. An act of love has been requested from the banks; a re-launching pact has been requested; a programmatic agreement has been requested. I saw a newspaper headline this morning: the General States of Italy. Well come, but they are all situations that require at least two subjects willing to sign this covenant, willing to make this act of love. We of the center-right, we of the oppositions, we in particular of Forza Italia have always been ready to cooperate, but your openings and your availability have always been equal to zero. A few coffees of courtesy - my superiors tell me - but no more. [[Applause.]] We must move from words to deeds. The measures put in place by the Government and this majority, with the various decrees-laws remembered (Cure Italy, liquidity at the moment to our examination, and relaunch), have aimed and have led to the reopening of our activities, but have not led to the restart of the Country. It has reopened, but it has not broken down: let's remember this! [[Applause.]] I am referring to tourism, automotive, fashion, professionals, small and medium-sized enterprises, logistics. Mr Undersecretary, domestic demand must be revived; money must be given to families and people in order to be able to spend. [[Applause.]] Too much bureaucracy, too much regulation; rules that overlap and contradict each other, with the result of appearing incomprehensible and for this reason inapplicable. At a time of great difficulty, colleagues and colleagues, we need quick projects and a vision. To date we have neither a quick project nor a vision. We give you some advice, if you accept them: investment in health must be made, interventions must be made in school and in school building, public investment must be made in infrastructure, roads, rail links and digitisation. An urgent tax reform, serious and oriented to the productive world, to employment, to families: flat tax. [[Applause.]] No more words, however, is enough because the good will that the Italian people expressed on this occasion of lockdown also has a limit. I hope none of us will call back the patience of the Italians. We need planning. We need to be timely; we need to direct our policies - your policies - towards factors that have the highest tax multiplier. I have already said this: aid to families, public investment. There are EUR 40 billion of public works that need to be completed. [[Applause.]] Put your hand to the Home Floor, put your hand; ecobonus also to businesses, ecobonus also to companies. Let's move liquidity, not with words, but with facts. Sburocratized, hurry, do it now. You have recalled the Genoa model, a model that we ascribe to this majority: let's apply it in other sectors. On the banks side, they have remembered it all before, merciless numbers: the measures guaranteed by SACE (Fiat separately) are 13 all over Italy. [[Applause.]] What are we talking about? You know what happens? That if you continue like this, who is well will always be better and who is sick will always be worse; a political responsibility only yours. [[Applause.]] We are voting against this confidence with absolute determination and conviction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u87	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, while the Members of the Forza Italia Group touch Iron, which I would recommend to all of us at this time, and also to those outside this House. [[Applause]] I am going to make an explanation of vote on behalf of my Group, which will, of course, be contrary to confidence. I have already explained in other circumstances - colleagues from my Group have done so - the reasons why we do not trust this Government: timeo Danaos et dona ferentes (and then, in this case, the gifts are not seen). The technical reasons for our distrust have already been explained by our colleagues in the opposition, including my group's colleagues. Yesterday, Senator Nisini pointed out that the EUR 400 billion in liquidity was actually EUR 400 billion that should have been found in banks, and I do not know if anyone outside this House understood exactly what was being said. Senator Ferrero has remembered that, thanks to the mechanisms with which this help has been arranged, it is raining in the wet: the money comes essentially to those who do not need it. [[Applause.]] Senator Saviane reminded us that the families were substantially forgotten in the interventions against the recession by Covid, and of this something is also seen in the statistics on the labour market; but above all Senator Montani made the crucial observation: he recalled the importance of the time factor, and it is quite strange that a government that has as Minister of the economy - also absent - a historian, does not understand the importance of the time when it comes to acting against a crisis that has these characteristics. [[Applause.]] We are tired of the tantalizing rhetoric of collaboration and peace of mind. It is very easy to enter this House and, in favour of a camera, to praise virtue and peace of mind, as it is also very easy to argue that a climate of greater cooperation would have been desired. Let us start with the principle that the denial of the conflict in democracy is, however, an inverse act. [[Applause.]] The dictatorship was born to deny the conflict, democracy was born to mediate it and the place of the conflict is this: they are not hypothetical extraparliamentary technical tables in which you have basically fooled us for a few weeks making the mistake of boasting about it and, you know, Rome is small, so then the voices run (not all those who work with you love you, I tell you incidentally). [[Applause.]] In this praise of the calmness and virtue of collaboration I then refer to several elements of fundamental and radical hypocrisy. Perhaps the first, apart from the fact that a climate of cooperation cannot be achieved because you do not want it, lies objectively in the absurd way in which the measures put before Parliament are written. What margins of collaboration can there be in decree-laws that regularly exceed 100 articles? I would add, where the ritual objection is made, that this is actually the only exception: within the broad framework of the measures taken to combat the great global pandemic, this is the only measure that has less than 100 articles, but this branch of Parliament has been given four days to examine it. It is clear then that there is something that does not work on the part of those who ask for cooperation in words but make it impossible in fact, writing unworkable measures in Parliament. [[Applause]] This must be told to those who are outside, because then it is easy to be quiet in favor of camera. This invitation to peace is to do so to those who are losing work or relatives of those who have lost their lives, as a result of extreme gestures: I could cite fathers who have found their children and children who have found their parents. This is the situation in which we are and to which we are condemned by delays and by not having taken into account the importance of time. I'm sorry, but I have to point out that two complementary mistakes are being made here, both betraying a strange government subalternity. First of all, they did not want to place government bonds in a timely manner, under liquid market conditions, such as those created, especially in March, after the announcement of the ECB's intervention. In the first quarter, Italy had the European record of net negative issues on the government bond market (less 57), when real liquidity was needed, not the promise that banks would be supported, where they had made an act of love. There it was not intended to collect liquidity and the results of the successive auctions, not only that of BTP Italia, but also that of the ordinary BTP, show that if it had acted with greater incisiveness, now the liquidity would be there and would also have been distributed. The professionals would not have been subjected to the humiliation of click-days and the "who arrives better" accommodation. [[Applause]] There would have been cover and there would have been no ridiculous coverage to guarantee the various loans that the liquidity decree promises (or perhaps it would be better to say "promise"). We must be careful, because, as is said on social media, this story of guarantees is the new safeguard clauses. You have in fact disabled the safeguard clauses, but when these guarantees are excused, against the resources you do not put, the Government (I give you sad news for you and to manage for us) we will be there. Our government will have to cope with that huge chasm, which you have opened up in the public accounts, guaranteeing without covering. This is in fact the fundamental theme, which is found in the measure under consideration and also in the decree relaunch, which we will also talk about when the time comes. To the error of not intervening with a substantial collection on the national market, issuing securities, it counterweights the other complementary error, that of relying on hypothetical measures and a rain of billions, which should come from Europe and on which you are denied even by your more "organic" organs - let's call them - and by your various "Pravda". It is known that there will be few, but the absurdity is that people outside this House do not know that and so it must be told that money is not there and that Europe will have to collect it on the markets. And when will he do that? When the guarantees have been paid, then calmly. And are we sure that, with the companies that will begin to fail, with the families that will not be able to repay the loans, then, in cascade, with the banks that will begin to have difficulties, in a regime of financial markets that will necessarily be much more turbulent than the current ones, the big and powerful Europe will be able to place securities? Are we sure? Better then a BTP today than nothing tomorrow, right? But why wasn't this done, why isn't it done? [[Applause]] For me this remains a huge mystery, which perhaps has a political explanation, because we know what the MES is for, okay? With two auctions, that of the BTP Italia and the last of the ordinary BTPs - which are not all the auctions that have been made since April to date - have been collected 36 billion euros. In the meantime, the ECB has bought EUR 37 billion. Do you know that the interests on the securities that are purchased by the ECB are then largely relegated to the National Treasures? So, that's the real zero-cost debt. We already made the ESM at zero cost; why do we insist on wanting it? I should also ask myself why certain professional associations insist on wanting it; perhaps to point out how little they represent their associates, but this is a speech that we will make in another circumstance. If you insist it is because you simply want to pre-constitute a legal basis for the country's commissionership when you are no longer in power. [[Applause]] This is leading to the breaking of the social pact that binds the deflatory party, the PD, to its voters, who are no longer the popular classes and the fragile classes, but are the middle-high class, who understood very well that, in order to save yourself, in this way you are setting him on the path of an asset and an assault on his savings. This explains so many stomachaches that you see around in environments that once were so granitically lined up with you. So to save yourself you are destroying the country and I believe that the time of calmness and fake collaboration is over. We are now debating in Parliament: come to Parliament and listen to us. The wonderful world of task forces is already giving us enough satisfaction and gave it to us during the lockdown. This is what is being discussed; the general states of the economy or of Italy have been made in the Budget Committee in the House, where all the productive categories have been heard. This government cannot make a proposal that does not go through an insult to Parliament and that has become unacceptable! [[Applause]] This I had to represent you and this I represent you. Of course, we will vote against the government's confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u90	FENU (M5S). Mr President, today we are about to vote on a very important measure, which has already been approved with amendments by the House of Deputies, whose parliamentary debate has resulted in a text that has been further improved compared to the Decree-Law issued by the Government on 8 April, a text which is also a summary of the involvement of oppositions. The liquidity decree, also in its new formulation, responds to the strong demand for support that comes from the economic fabric of the country, which in its broadest sense, family and business, awaits timeliness in the interventions and respect for the sacrifices imposed on them. In the implementation of the measures provided for in the decree liquidity and the decree care Italy were probably committed errors caused by bureaucratic incrustations and the pressing of the emergency health, economic and social, but the interventions of the State and the Government in the emergency were timely. Parliament's work on government acts has always been improved and dictated by the need to make support measures more fluid and accessible and to include in the expected benefits all those subjects who had been excluded from the first reformulations. This was the spirit that guided the work of the Chambers and that has often found the requests for amendments of the different parliamentary groups of opposition and majority convergent. There is a problem of de facto monocameralism on the individual measures, complained alternately by the House and the Senate, which in any case has never lost the contribution of the other branch of Parliament, especially in the preparatory work for the amending procedure. I believe that this distortion can and must be overcome with the easing of the emergency, but the controversy on the point, which we have heard here today, seems instrumental and certainly less useful than many acceptable amending proposals suggested by the opposition colleagues themselves. President Bagnai spoke a short while ago of the tiresome rhetoric of cooperation, but also in the Finance Committee yesterday, by looking at the amendments proposed to turn the agenda into agendas with the Undersecretary of War, we saw that some were not acceptable simply because they were overcome by the changes already made to the House. [[Applause.]] This is the statement that in reality the requests that came to the opposition colleagues were also received by us and were accepted by the Government in the House. This monocameralism must be overcome. However, there is an emergency situation and I hope that this temporary handicap can also be overcome by its weakening. The three approved economic decrees-laws (Cure Italia, liquidity and relaunch) must be considered part of a single organic design, to be read in a perfect line of continuity. Each of the decrees contains provisions that complement the previous one. With the first measure, the decree-law cures Italy, and its 25 billion euros, was offered a first aid to families, to employees, to the self-employed, to those who pay the rent, to those who must support the payment of the mortgage, to the companies affected by the closures through the moratorium on loans and credit lines. With the liquidity decree-law, support has been high at a higher level of protection, geared to the most relevant businesses and economic sectors. An impressive operation of credit, fiscal, administrative and protection of strategic economic assets has been carried out, through the enhancement of golden power, extended to other productive sectors, including medical, medical and surgical devices and personal protection. Parliament's work has sought to improve the provision of liquidity, which can now be a boost to recovery for many, once obstacles have been overcome and conditions have been facilitated. The protests of those who have not been able to access the aid or of those who are still waiting for it after having requested it are understandable and understood. It is a few days ago (of 27 May) the joint statement of Banca d'Italia, ABI, MEF, Mise, Mediocredito Centrale and SACE, which disseminates data concerning the state of implementation of government measures of decree-laws care Italy and liquidity. Data show that almost 2.4 million applications or notices of moratorium on loans were received on 15 May, for just under 250 billion euros. (FENU followed). Also from the same document, it emerges the estimate that about 84% of the applications or communications relating to moratories will be received by the banks. In the document there are other data concerning access by SMEs to the State guarantee, which I do not list, even if they are significant amounts and entities. We are aware that not everyone has had access to the measures and that they are not always sufficient to compensate for the serious economic loss and turnover of these months. The data I have read to you say, however, that the measures put in place are actually working: outside there is a whole and united country, that wants to work and take the holidays and wants to live. In these days we have seen, certainly perplexed, controversy and new bell towers, painful after the days of mourning and fear that we have all lived. Health protection must not lead us to the suspicion and fear of others. On June 2, the Feast of the Republic was celebrated, born from the sacrifice of many who did not have the regional origin written on their identity card. As a Sardinian, I have heard intriguing misunderstandings between representatives of my land and Lombard politicians. As a Sardinian I mean that Milan and Lombardy have always represented for me an example, a proactive push, an impulse to the other Regions and cities of Italy to be able to do better, to grow and to offer a chance of improvement. Milan is not a foreign city; it has always been an important part of our national and personal life. Milan belongs to everyone. More than fake bell tower polemics, we should take care to equip our country with health control systems that prevent and protect Italians from possible new outbreaks. Mr Ferro said earlier that investment in health care should be made. Between the last two budget laws and the last economic decrees, thanks also to the convinced push of the Movimento 5 Stars, to the health has been allocated 7 billion additional [[Applause]] , after the National Health Service has suffered a definancing of about 37 billion over the last ten years. But the sacrifice of Sardinians, Lombards and Italians must not be rendered useless by the isolation of different and contradictory regional rules. We will have to have common rules of monitoring and prevention, aiming without rhetoric to the uniformity of procedures, the availability of tests, reagents and swabs, to welcome us by protecting and not isolating us by closing. Today we are called to approve the liquidity decree, we are called to vote on the text issued by the Government and the changes made by Parliament, with which we have made access to credit more usable and faster, thanks to self-certification, which will facilitate the procedures for providing financing. We have increased funding by up to EUR 30,000 with the central fund guarantee and set a new maximum rate of interest. We have also extended funding with state guarantee to agents, subagents and insurance brokers, we have introduced the alternative of double the wage expense 2019 as a limit for the guaranteed loan to the benefit of the smaller companies, we have expanded the time of return, bringing them from six to ten years for applications for financing up to 30,000 euros and up to thirty years for those up to 800,000. We have extended the applicants' audience as far as possible, including companies with exposures classified as probable defaults or expired exposures. We have excluded companies that invest outside Italy and those that control, directly or not, companies resident in non-cooperative countries or territories from the tax point of view. We suspended the reports at the risk station until September 30th. In short, contrary to what my colleagues in the opposition have said, we have tried to rule out what have been the requests from the categories and territories. We must now commit ourselves to the resumption of an economic system and of a country that intends to restart; and I think that the text on which we are about to express ourselves contains the right tools to do so. For this announcement convinced the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u91	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u92	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1829, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 23 of 8 April 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his/her place, declaring his/her vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Candiani is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with the members of the government, then with Senator Candiani. (Senator Secretary PISANI Giuseppe and, later, Senator Secretary TOSATO make the appeal). The senators replied: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Botto, Bressa Campagna, Casini, Castaldi, Castiello, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi, Floridia, Gallicchio, Drago, Durnwalti, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fede, Fedeli, Fedeli, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi, F. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1829, of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law n. 23 of 8 April 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 276 Senators voting 275 Majority 138 Favorables 156 Contrari 119]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 23 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u95	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have asked to speak in order to bring to the attention of the House what has happened with regard to the communications and information of the Government on the Covid risk in the various regions of Italy, which has affected Umbria. It was a real scandal, which saw not only a mistake, but also persevere the Government on a communication that caused serious damage to the Umbria Region. On May 14, consciously, data were distributed referring to April 26 that placed Umbria among the three regions most at risk of our peninsula, and this has also caused serious damage to the information campaign launched by the Umbria Region, aimed instead to emphasize that the territory was safe. To the damage was added the mockery, because while in Europe this was recognized, so much so that the "Telegraph" in those days recommended Umbria as the safest destination and region of Europe, it was precisely the Government and the Higher Institute of Health that put in difficulty a territory that was trying to recover. There have been many interventions made not only by President Tesei and Councillors, but also by trade associations, which have signalled not only a delay in the data used, but also a fundamental error, which to date remains in the calculation mechanism. Calculating the percentage of the increase in cases in a region where the number has been very close to zero for days is precisely wrong in terms of statistics and the most elementary rules. Well, to date, of those 21 parameters, the Rt (R with t) remains the heaviest and most important. Then we are here forcefully asking for the parameters to be reviewed in the cabin that has finally been set up, especially in the limit situations. When the same study says that the error in which one may incur is greater than 1 and the figure to be measured is between 0 and 1, the only resolution that can be adopted is that: in this region one cannot take into account a study that has such parameters. Now Umbria will also be part of the directing booth. However, we ask that the Government first - and we all remember the clashes and contradictions between ministers Hope and Boccia, who pervicaciously wanted to defend this wrong mechanism - put hand to calculation, because it is played with health, work and the future are not of Umbria, but of all the Regions that now, in phase 2, could see modified, even a little, the number of cases that, if calculated in this way, would have irreparable damage on the level of image and re-launch. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u98	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, Perugia's investigation of the Palamara system, contained in 60,000 pages of transcribed interceptions, has revealed illegal agreements, a true commodity between the currents of the judiciary for the assignment of important directives, thus demonstrating a misunderstanding of the judicial function, made also of settlement of accounts between the same magistrates (some to be punished, because they refuse to investigate the powerful in turn, others to be rewarded), which has damaged the prestige of the judges and the confidence of the citizens in justice. The last Eurispes investigation on the confidence of Italians in the institutions sees the Forces of the Order at 73 percent and the judiciary at 36 percent. It is not possible for citizens to see notices of guarantee sent by the press on the part of the usual information operators - a shining example of this is the chapter on journalists of the judiciary, used to emphasize the tips, or to diminish them, even to censor them according to the editorial orientation of those newspapers - with well-known magistrates certain of the current impunity of the CSM, that is those associations that divide with the Cencelli promotions, assignments, transfers, career progression, directions of proxy, regardless of the merit, that is those currents defined by the late judge Imposed the cancer of the judiciary. We cannot tolerate the work of some magistrates, widely deployed, who use their judicial function in an attempt to intimidate parliamentary prerogatives with the opening of investigations, in violation of Article 68 of the Constitution, in the port of the fogs of the attorney of Rome, on why a senator dared to present acts of inspection union on the work of a chatted director AGCOM, abusing the judicial police, that is the Guardia di Finanza in service at the same Authority. Perugia's investigation also sees open files, which in many cases remain empty after years, containing no investigations carried out and clearly intimidating. A scandal is the singular interpretation of the insider trading rules - as happened in stock exchange speculation at a safe shot on some securities with earnings of 600,000 euros after the tip to a former Premier on the reform of the Peoples - then brought to the Council of Ministers, or as happened to the Procurator of Rome, managing Pignatone, who, instead of investigating the former Premier and the publisher Carlo De Benedetti, brought to trial the broker Bolengo, guilty of having executed the given order. Mr President, it has been said that the same unbridled carrierism, which has allowed to decide and mediate over the golden years about a thousand assignments in favor of the lucky members of the current, moves on the same footing as the most vicious politics, because this is the logic of the division of power, that is, the commodity of the assignments. Palamara, who has also accused the policy of delegate too much to the judiciary, will not make any other names; if it were to do so, most of those magistrates who have had bandages and prebende would risk the place, perhaps even some criminal proceedings. Eventually, everyone's gonna get along. I am really closing, Mr President, and thank you. Finally, I quote the Palamara system, when, I confess, it states without blinking an eye that the good ones only exceptionally reach the top functions, but today I can not tell lies, so I can say that one must belong to a current to obtain appointments, while the better and better prepared not enrolled in the current remain out of the circle, thus depriving the justice of his best men. We have a duty to uncover the smelly pot of justice with radical reforms, possibly shared, because without truth there will never be just justice for citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u100	His name was not on the list of those who had requested it, Senator Mautone, but intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u101	MAUTON (M5S). Thank you for your time, Mr President. I should have intervened yesterday, but the intervention has been postponed until today. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. His name was not transcribed again, but there was no will to ignore it. MAUTON (M5S). The Child Jesus Children's Hospital is the protagonist of a long journey into the universe of childhood that has lasted for one hundred and fifty years. The structure represents an eyepiece of Italian pediatrics and, as a pediatrician, I can only share the great satisfaction and the right recognitions received from all institutional levels. A reference pole and driving structure of paediatric care, it represents a concrete example of how the Italian high professionalism and skills find the appropriate place and the right recognition. This is a structure in which research, assistance, clinical care, follow-up and rehabilitation have found an appropriate balance, achieving very high levels of performance, both qualitatively and quantitatively. It hits above all that, beyond the programs and advertising ads, the Child Jesus' relationship with the user is marked by maximum availability and humanity. At the center of its internal organization, in the first place there is the child, understood in its totality, with his pathology, his anxieties and his fears; next, however, there is also his family, with its psychological, logistical and environmental difficulties, that live a more or less dramatic experience, always destined and in any case to leave an indelible trace in the family balance. Strong impulse has always been given to research, with the selection of young researchers, engaged in studies on often complex pathologies, some of which are poorly attended in the scientific community. From the results of their constant professional commitment, new diagnostic and therapeutic possibilities have emerged, which have found direct application in clinical practice. I would also like to remind you that, for just over two years, the TIN department (intensive neonatal therapy) has been inaugurated, allowing the rapid take-over of premature and immature newborns, thus saving time. And we are well aware of the importance of the time factor in reducing the risk of irreversible damage to newborns. Particular attention has been paid in recent years to children from developing countries, poor countries and territories torn apart by bloody, almost perennial wars and famines. These are children with complex pathologies (e.g. congenital heart disease) or Siamese, whose resolution requires the work of a multidisciplinary team, which unfortunately cannot be organised in the countries of origin, due to economic and environmental difficulties and the lack of adequate equipment. These innocent victims, transported to Rome through a humanitarian bridge, receive care and assistance according to the protocols established for their clinical conditions, but above all they are involved in a chain of solidarity that, beyond the purely clinical aspect, encompasses the whole family unit. It is a true miracle of solidarity, in which medical science exceeds the limited boundaries of men and the cold corporate budgets. Care for the sick, serve the sick: this is the motto that moves all the activity of the Child Jesus, the children's hospital, for children.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u102	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-225.ana.u103	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 9 June, at 12 noon, with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed at 14.25 a.m.
