ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1665, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Astorre, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure we are discussing is one of the main assets of our economic system. Hence the reasons for extraordinary necessity and urgency, as provided for in the Constitution. During the last legislature, important measures were adopted on Alitalia to ensure the operational and management continuity of the companies of the group submitted to extraordinary administration, precisely in order to guarantee the continuity of the air transport service. The instrument mainly followed was that of the granting of loans by the State (first 600 million euros, to which additional 300 euros have been added). With this measure we are essentially in line with the most recent past. I can confirm what has already been said in the Commission about the work done by the other branch of Parliament, which has made important improvements to the text. Therefore, as provided for in Article 1, the new loan from 2019 amounts to EUR 400 million and is intended not only to guarantee the service of air transport, but also to provide for substantial changes within the framework of the programme of the extraordinary administration procedure concerning the transfer of business complexes and the powers of the commissioner. In detail, paragraph 1 provides for the concession in the year 2019 of a financing for consideration of 400 million euros, of the duration of six months, in favor of Alitalia SpA and the other companies of the group in extraordinary administration, for their indifferent managerial needs and for the execution of the plan of initiatives and interventions previewed in the next paragraph 3. Paragraph 2 provides that the financing shall be granted with interest at the six-month Euribor rate published on the working day before the date of payment, plus a thousand basis points. As far as repayment is concerned, this is provided, for capital and interest, with priority over any other debt of the procedure. The provision also provides that the financing may also be provided through cash advances to be paid out in the same year by issuing payment orders on the relevant expenditure chapter. The sums paid in return for financing shall be paid at the entry of the State budget to be reallocated to the Fund for the depreciation of government bonds. In the course of the examination in the Chamber was introduced paragraph 2-a, which provides for some information obligations by the commissioner towards the Parliament. In particular, it is expected that, within thirty days of the date of entry into force of the law of conversion of the decree-law in question, the aforementioned commissioner will send to the competent parliamentary committees all the updated data relating to the economic and financial situation of the same companies. The commissioner for the entire duration of the extraordinary administration shall send to the relevant parliamentary committees all data relating to the economic and financial situation on a six-monthly basis. The following paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 1 provide for changes to the programme of the extraordinary administration procedure for the transfer of business complexes and to the powers of the commissioner. In this regard, it is recalled that on 6 December 2019 the MISE announced the appointment of lawyer Giuseppe Leogrande as a new sole commissioner, replacing the tern of extraordinary commissioners appointed for the extraordinary administration procedure. On this point, I would like to make a comment on the figure chosen to fill the post. Dr. Giuseppe Leogrande is a personality of great depth and proven competence in the field of the air transport; moreover, he has also introduced to us the managers of which, for the first time in the police procedure, they use, from the experience in the air transport. So there are all the cards in order to be able to work on a positive outcome of this complex affair. In detail, the recalled paragraphs 3 and 4 provide that the program of the extraordinary administration procedure of Alitalia and of the other companies of the group is integrated with a plan containing the initiatives and interventions of reorganization and efficiency of the structure and the business activities, functional to the timely definition of the procedures of transfer of the business complexes, to be carried out according to a modification approved during the examination to the Chamber, taking into account the maintenance of the unity and the business integrity and the level of the staff. The integration of the programme must be approved by the Ministry of Economic Development on the basis of Article 60 of Legislative Decree No 270 of 1999. Paragraph 5 provides that interest on loans received by Alitalia shall be paid at the entry of the State budget. This is the provision which provided for the reimbursement of the financing for consideration in the framework of the procedure for the allocation of the assets of the extraordinary administration, by virtue of and within the limits of Alitalia's available assets. On the basis of this change, interest on the loan shall therefore be repaid in the same way as for the repayment of the capital of the loan. Moreover, the effects already produced by the acts put in place in implementation of the previous wording of the standard are without prejudice to paragraph 5. This, as the explanatory report shows, makes it possible to avoid the effects already produced by the acts, such as any contracts that may be put into effect. Paragraph 6 provides for the financial cover of such charges. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u6	Colleagues, I would ask you to lower your voice so that the rapporteur can speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u7	Mr ASTORRE, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. In conclusion, the measure before us is a step that is most necessary to resolve the Alitalia issue positively. The resources, procedures and timing identified by the measure are useful in order to arrive at a concrete solution of the matter in a relatively short time - hopefully -. However, long-term investments are needed to overcome the Commissioner's phase and ensure Alitalia's operational continuity. The basis of this is the need to find a new Alitalia ownership company, resulting in the development of a new viable industrial plan, new and significant investments and new owned aircraft, in particular for long-haul passenger transport. All this preserving, as pointed out also by our initiative through an agenda, the unity of the business complex and the employment levels of Alitalia's staff. Only from this path, started with the measure to our examination, can derive higher levels of competitiveness for Alitalia in a highly competitive field like that of air transport and greater revenues, that are the key to the definitive resumption of this prestigious and historical flag company. Finally, I would like to acknowledge the careful work done by Mr Patuanelli, of whom I also welcome the invitation made by Patuanelli in his examination in the Commission to look no longer at the past, at the time of the continuous recrimination of the mistakes made, but rather to commit ourselves to the present and to a better future. With this measure we define a more solid plant able to guarantee within the deadlines given all the requirements for the determination of the procedures of cession of the business complexes relative to the companies Alitalia - Società aeriale SpA and Alitalia Cityliner SpA.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u8	I declare that the question referred for a preliminary ruling has been referred to QP1. He asked to intervene Senator Pagano to illustrate it. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u9	Mr President, the Forza Italia Group considered that it was also appropriate to present a preliminary question on this matter in order to ask that the draft law converting the decree-law should not be examined in our examination. It is right, however, to point out the question referred for a preliminary ruling that Forza Italia is not against Alitalia, nor - let alone - against its workers. On the contrary, as our members in the Commission of Merit and our leader, Senator Mallegni, have repeatedly called for, it is essential for us to protect Alitalia's Italianness. It is in fact an important brand that has had a long history in the growth from the post-war to the eighties and nineties of our flag company and it is essential that it is put at the service of the largest Italian industry, that is that of tourism. We must seriously evaluate the restructuring, relaunching with managerial skills a company that can be strategic for our economy and that retains one of the most prestigious and qualified brands among those with Italian brands. Even our colleague, Senator Alfredo Messina, who held positions at the top of Alitalia, at the time when he was one of the first airlines in the world, one of the top five carriers in the world, said he was confident of a relaunch of the company. We must defend that brand and the company highlighting the peculiarity of a society that produces services and not goods. Therefore Alitalia must not create divisions. The problems that it faces are perhaps less serious than those that have already faced other airlines of other Countries, if it is true that the company continues today to generate revenues that exceed the 3 billion annual. For this reason, in front of a company that still has important numbers in turnover, which is a reflection of the more than 20 million passengers who give it confidence every year, we want to draw attention to the seriousness of some behavior that must be held in Parliament. Alitalia is a serious issue and the Government cannot afford to joke with the future of its employees, its stakeholders, Italian citizens all and, first and foremost, taxpayers, who for many years have participated in the various raisings and rescues of the company. Instead, we are faced with yet another picture of uncertainty. I would like to remind you that on December 2, 2019 the Government submitted Decree-Law No 137 of 2019, introducing urgent measures to ensure the continuity of the service carried out by Alitalia-Companye Italiana SpA and Alitalia Cityliner SpA in extraordinary administration. The decree - which is therefore due to expire - was assigned at first reading to the Chamber of Deputies, which has already approved it by recording the abstention vote of the Forza Italia Group. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] The decree, moreover, previews a series of measures in order to assure the continuity of the service carried out from Alitalia-Società aeriale italiana SpA and Alitalia Cityliner SpA, confirming the financing of 400 million euros for the duration of six months, already previewed from decree-law n. 124 of 2019. The same measure in question makes changes to the programme of the extraordinary administration procedure for the transfer of business complexes and to the powers of the commissioner, since the prospects for achieving the transfer procedure to which the Government should have been working for some time have not been apparent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u10	Colleagues, please allow at least the Presidency to listen to Senator Pagano's speech because it is impossible to follow him from here. If we can lower our voices, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u11	PAGE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you. The rules on Alitalia were also present in Article 54 of Decree-Law No. 124 of 2019 (the so-called tax decree), still in the process of conversion at the time of issuing the decree-law and now repealed by paragraph 6 of Article 1. The bill of conversion of Decree-Law No. 124 of 2019 concluded the examination at first reading in the Chamber on 6 December last; it was finally approved by the Senate at the session of 17 December 2019 and in that place it was noted the repeal of Article 54. But this is not the end, because during the examination of the draft budget bill for 2020, an amendment was also tabled by the rapporteurs which reproduced the text of the measure under consideration, during the examination of the Senate Budget Commission. Obviously the amendment was declared inadmissible because of the extraneous nature of the matter. Basically, we want to stigmatize the fact that there has been a real legislative schizophrenia in the decisions of the government and its own majority. Twice, in fact, the majority presented and then deleted the rule to the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. I repeat for these reasons that the use of the decree of urgency is clearly improper, if not unconstitutional. The motivation behind the issuing of the decree does not seem sufficient to distinguish the indispensable requirements of necessity and urgency imposed by the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, as I said before. We wanted to underline and highlight this attitude precisely through the use of the parliamentary instrument of the question referred to us by our Rules of Procedure. I believe that, once again, we must stigmatize the excessive use of urgent decrees, unlike our Constitution, and that they must be brought back to the right beehive, which is not the one in which the government and the majority have moved, bearing in mind that, in this case, there has been a schizophrenic attitude from the legislative point of view. We therefore call for a vote in favour of the question before us. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u12	I would remind you that, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, no more than one representative per group may speak during the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u15	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, if we are all convinced - and I think that is so - that the issue of Alitalia is central to our political debate and that this important company, former flagship company, is to be saved, it seems incomprehensible to me to try to nullify the decree-law through the proposition of the preliminary question of constitutionality. In fact, if it were ever to pass, for Alitalia it would be trouble: the uncertainties that have been denounced would explode significantly and create important repercussions on the market. That would be enough to say that the question referred for a preliminary ruling appears inappropriate in relation to the real issue we are talking about. Another general consideration must certainly be addressed on the basis of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, as we have said many times. There are now important judgments of the Constitutional Court on the urgent decree, but also, in the very long experience of Parliament, the House and the Senate, on several occasions and always on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, the many incisive terms of the necessity or not, on certain occasions, of the urgent decree have been addressed. It would suffice to read this broad case-law in order to overcome a method which is legitimately used, but which sometimes does not actually correspond to the proposed subject. What is the subject of the decree-law that we are talking about? These measures are necessary, essential, to ensure that Alitalia can continue to exist. But, with respect to the initial proposition of the decree-law, the important part, voted during the debate in the Chamber, concerns the changes to the program of the extraordinary administration procedure for the transfer of the business complexes and the powers of the commissioner. This is, therefore, a further deepening, on which Parliament has already spoken, and I do not see that any constitutional issues have been dealt with in the other House, not even on these passages. Therefore, it would have been appropriate for our branch of Parliament to proceed expeditiously, without addressing the issue of constitutionality. On the substance of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, he argued, in the text of the question itself, that this decree-law would be inappropriate, because the use of the decree of urgency, in the presence of a subject already included in another decree, the fiscal one, or in another law, such as the budget law, would not be appropriate, as if those two situations, which have been resolved, had an impact on the constitutionality of the measure currently under consideration. As is well known ‐ the colleague who explained the reasons for the question referred ‐ for procedural reasons the proposals to which I referred in favour of Alitalia have been repealed or deleted, so the exacting reasons for the urgent decree have remained true. This would already be enough to resolve the issue, because, precisely, they are clear both the necessity and the urgency of a dedicated and specific decree-law, in the light of the impossibility to resolve the node with other legislative and legislative passages. Otherwise, should we have abandoned the theme? Would there have been a government that would have done something different than what we did? In view of the conditions laid down, would anyone have operated differently? These questions would be enough. In addition to the logical question I asked with these simple questions, it would suffice to read some of the judgments - there have been several - of the Constitutional Court on the decree of urgency, especially one, n. 220 of 2013, in which it is reiterated that the decrees-laws derive their general legitimacy from extraordinary cases and are destined to operate immediately, in order to give quick regulatory answers to situations in need of being adjusted in a manner suitable to face the urgent and urgent needs. This means, for the case law established in our country, that the requirements of necessity and urgency are assessed at the time of the issuing of the decree, with reference to the cases that require an immediate intervention of legislative rank. Compared to this assumption, the fact (cited in the question referred for a preliminary ruling) that an amendment similar to the measure, which was declared inadmissible, was tabled during the examination of the draft budget law 2020, which is one of the reasons why it is proceeding in this direction, and much less that the same decree repeals a provision already present in a previous rule, clearly considered inadequate to deal with the problem, as it has actually been. The necessity and urgency of a decree of this level, therefore, derives from the fact that at the time when the decree-law was issued there were the conditions necessary to arrive at a proposition of that nature. For the general reasons which I have expressed, and for reasons of substance, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote against the question referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u16	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Bernini and other senators for a preliminary ruling. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u17	Mr President, this measure is the last of a long series that we have had to deal with in this parliamentary term. In fact, my fellow senators will recall that one of the first measures that we had to examine in the Special Commission that was set up pending the establishment of the other Commissions was precisely the decree of 27 April 2018, one of the many issued by the government then in office (if I remember well it was the third decree-law in just two years). That decree was brought to the attention of Parliament in the first days of its constitution as a legacy of the previous Gentilon Government. Well, on that occasion, Brothers of Italy was the only Parliamentary Group to point out that this was a wrong way to deal with this issue and that there was already, then, an industrial strategic plan to save, indeed to relaunch the Alitalia flag company. My fellow senators recall that on that occasion, in the face of our specific observations, of which the chronicle of the following months and also this decree-law give us full reason, the three commissioners of that time were audited, who presented their strategic plan, then revealed in time, as we then claimed, completely unworkable. Well, this decree is the seventh intervention made since 2017. I repeat: it is the seventh legislative intervention on Alitalia realized from 2017 to today, legacy of the governments of the left (in that case Gentiloni Silveri), all the more so because today those who have realized the first decrees and those who have realized the successive decrees and legislative measures are part of the same group of Government, therefore in full inheritance and responsibility. Responsibility and inheritance also emerge clearly from the data concerning, unfortunately, the flag company. Recently the decree has been issued at our examination which still uses other resources, after those already wasted in these months and in these years. I would remind myself that the crisis is not of today but comes from afar, but also the ability to postpone decisions has become even worse today. I would remind myself that already in the first steps of the 1994 parliamentary term, which was my first parliamentary term, Parliament dealt with the Alitalia crisis and then was proposed a solution that was perhaps the only one capable of being concretely realized in those years and that could have allowed Alitalia to have a role as a European company in a world of air navigation that changed deeply. We are talking about the end of the nineties, when an internal force that referred to the left union opposed the strategic alliance, already signed, with the Dutch carrier KLM. Then it was the right solution for Alitalia that came from a better situation and that could have been the leading carrier of that natural alliance and not conflicting with the strategic interests of our country. He did not want to do so and other mistakes were made later. However, the mistakes we have before us today, the mistakes of your governments, are all the more striking in the light of what has happened in the meantime, in these months, while you postponed the decisions, always drawing from the public funds additional resources, which are then the resources of the State and therefore of the citizens. This is so true that you have appointed, during the examination of the budget law, no longer three Commissioners, canceling the previous commissioner management that you had defined as the one aimed at the rescue of Alitalia, but a liquidating commissioner, because in its history the new commissioner appears just like an extraordinary liquidator. The Commissioner, who I believe has not yet met the previous Commissioners, has made a very alarming report on what happened during your Governments, namely the Gentiloni-Silveri Government and the Count Governments, in the state of distress of Alitalia. The appointed Commissioner himself spoke of a substantial loss. It reports that Alitalia has burned about 300 million euros a year in the extraordinary period of administration, which brings to an amount of almost 10 billion the total resources burned by Alitalia in the last forty-five years (9,2 billion euros). The issue is all the more serious because Alitalia has lost its value in these years of administration because of the waste of resources and the contraction of the air fleet: the aircraft, in fact, have decreased from 121 to 113. The destinations have decreased and the passengers, especially those of the short routes, have decreased: this has led to a further loss of value. In essence, if the rescue or its place had happened two years ago, Alitalia would have had a value far greater than today, that it has diminished precisely for the sizing of both the aerial fleet, the routes and the passengers. At the same time, two issues that we consider important have not been addressed or resolved, also in order to understand what happened before the Commissioner's management, during the Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri Governments. I am referring to what has happened with regard to Heathrow Airports, which have been handed over in a strange way to Alitalia's previous owners. This argument emerged clearly during the hearings that we imposed at the beginning of the legislature in the Special Commission: in that forum we were told that we could regain rights on the ports of call with little resources (I speak of a year and a half ago, therefore in this legislature, during the era of the 5 Stars to the Government); well, this scandal, to which one could remedy with an intervention also from the Commissarial Alitalia, has remained such, the promised intervention has not been and the patch to the scandalous hole has not been put. I also say it from memory of those who do - or have done, but then the facts have denied it - worshiper of moralization. This is all the more serious in the light of another situation that has emerged in the meantime, which - as a daily report very close to you - concerns the strange turn of Alitalia aircraft in the hands of an Irish trustee, so that not only the ports of call have passed, but also four or five aircraft. The scandal that there was, therefore, has become even more serious during this Commissioner's management. What's behind Alitalia? What has been behind the private and public Alitalia of recent years? On this, more than anything else, perhaps there will be a need for a Commission of Inquiry. Meanwhile, we denounce the march of the shrimp that you have made on the measure under consideration and the attempt to extend the solution from month to month, without an industrial strategy of recovery and revival of the Alitalia, because you have not, nor have you manifested it in these months, indeed in these years, from 2017 to today, and even before. That is why our Group, in line with what it has already done since the beginning of the parliamentary term, when we pointed out the case as an emblematic one, will abstain from voting for responsibility, while at the same time denouncing what has happened and is happening further. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u18	Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u19	Mr President, I do not hide a certain emotion, being from Fiumicino, because Alitalia is not just a company: it is Fiumicino, Ferno-Malpensa, Lamezia Terme and Olbia; Alitalia are the free citizens who fly, the workers and families who live thanks to the commitment of this company, which has been for years a flagship and has been exploited. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I have read in the provision that a small investigation will be initiated to verify who has contributed more or less to its failure. I would ask that a committee of parliamentary inquiry be set up to shed light on all the national assets that have been sold out and perhaps promised to the lobbies of foreign multinationals, which have no interest in national development. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , and to those people who would like to destroy - as they have tried for years to do - our nation from the industrial point of view. I am sorry that the Movimento 5 Star, which should have made clarity and transparency in this legislature, has been limited to a small internal Alitalia committee. We are calling for a committee of parliamentary inquiry. You have to make it clear and, if anyone has to pay, pay. Privatizations, in fact, have a name and surname: Romano Prodi, who sold out our nation (we also talk about Poste and Telecom, IRI and many companies). [[Comments from the PD Group.]] There's a culprit, which is why I'm worried: the Democratic Party. Renzi, in his last attempt to save Alitalia, launched the slogan: "Lighten your belts". Yeah, but because we were falling. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am really worried, therefore, that Italia Viva is part of this Government that wants to relaunch Alitalia. I want to remember, because it has gone so far, that in 2008 four people took their lives, because of the despair of having lost their jobs, and there was a lot of funeral. This is a very serious act and someone has to pay, honestly. Then we get to the goals to re-launch this company. We must make a real industrial plan and I appeal here, because so far they have all failed: to agree with the unions, which are the representation of workers and must be involved in this negotiation; they must not only be involved in the decisions of others and sign new contracts, layoffs or redundancies. The League clearly says: no redundancies, enough; we do not accept any dismissal. Mine may seem demagogy, but it can be done. We could have ended this game, because there was an important rope: Atlantia, Ferrovie, Delta and Treasure. Unfortunately, at the time, a Taliban minister, of whom I say his surname, Toninelli, put some conditions: to remove the concessions of Autostrade in Atlantia. For Christ's sake, what has happened is very serious, but it investigates the judiciary, not Parliament: we are not a people's court. She jumped a rope thanks to amateurs on the brink, that is the Movimento 5 Stars. For this reason, today, citizens have rewarded them with a national 3%, because they have understood that they are amateurs and Taliban on some aspects. We cannot make a rope fail for a principle, which is not dependent on us but on the judiciary, which will make it clear. I really hope in the coming days, when I will be at the table with Commissioners, Leogrande and others, to verify the industrial plan: we will not do discounts, because Alitalia is a national asset. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u21	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, according to the man on the road I am inspired by, Alitalia is a bottomless pit, but I want to overturn the reasoning. The transport system in Italy is necessarily in deficit: urban and extra-urban transport on rubber collects about 35% from the tickets and 65% is borne by the system; the Railways have a fund of a few billion (I have not managed to find it in the budget, it will be encrypted). On the air transport system, you could decide (if you could, and you have to see who finances) that has an annual deficit: the airports and the companies, Alitalia or the others, but you could have it. It is a suggestion on a framework from which to start, which concerns infrastructure in Italy: while we are here, bridges and tunnels continue to deteriorate, other facts probably happen, debt increases and society has an unsustainable welfare. In the decree that we are going to approve, we also legislate on the interests of the 400 million (with Euribor rate, plus 1000 points, but whatever they are, will be returned): let's forget, they will end the 900 million and 300 million of the past. The Alitalia balance sheet is divided into several parts, with the bad company and the active company (not present for a few years): however, if you analyze what you have, according to the report of the commissioners, it certainly presents waste (consulencies and empty journeys of drivers who move), a turnover that does not grow, a loss and a debt of 920 million that however, if there was an asset, would not be unsustainable. There are probably abnormal costs on leasing, some situations that do not work and redundancies: these are problems that need to be addressed, otherwise the staff get older, because they cannot be hired, but relationships with other companies are to say the least abnormal; the issue must be addressed once and for all, even if it is unpathetic. Some parties talk about nationalization and the same speech would be worth for Autostrade for Italy: let's forget it, we've already gone through it. Someone else talks about merging with Ferrovie dello Stato, which work: thanks to the idea of someone (Governo Berlusconi and administrator Moretti) has made the high speed, otherwise we would be at zero there too; but we do not merge with Ferrovie, let them work. There are Commissioners, and a management in general in Alitalia, who have to live up to it, different. I do not read statements from other members: I would like Atlantia - called into question in order to form the cordata, with a participation of about 10 percent - Poste italiani, Intesa Sanpaolo or Unicredit to express themselves on the matter. Then I read from the House's proceedings - I did not know - that a senator weaves the cordate, on behalf of the Government or the Minister, but I did not understand well on the basis of what delegation: I think it is irritary and out of any possibility of understanding by those who want to be the Puritans of politics, the censors of others; It's not okay, there's no such thing as a senator or a senator weaving the strings; it's just who understands us and is delegated. The proposals are: to settle accounts (there is little to do) and staff (idem); to have an adequate management; to look for a band on a ban with certain, transparent and absolute conditions; to allocate immediately the 400 million to loss in the state budget, perhaps financing them with the saving on the income of citizenship (is there); or to fail as did Swissair a few years ago, and then to restart again. However, apart from these proposals, there is nothing concrete about it: in this way, however, in six months or a year we will be back here talking about extending the 400 million and other funds that we need. That is our opinion: Forza Italia will abstain for correctness and I adapt, for sense of responsibility. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u23	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again dealing with the problems of our flagship company, if we can still call it that, Alitalia: on the one hand, they see the whole of Parliament in agreement with the need not to leave it to a fate that is often marked; on the other hand, they see us at least doubtful about the proposed path, which we are facing. The decree-law in itself does not say much, and that is what worries: it is only a cry for help to be able to continue in seeking a response for restructuring and rescue; it is a procrastination of the terms for the failure of your negotiations. But let's face it, we would have expected more: tighter and clearer stakes for the new Commissioner, strongly wanted by his colleagues, that is, by my colleague, Mr 5 Stars. Was it so much to ask the Commissioner at the hearing to answer the questions clearly? They were simple questions about the future of workers, relaunching, critical nodes, unnecessary costs, costs to be cut, redefinition of leasing on aircraft, considerations on routes and essential connections in territories not reached by high speed and plan for intermodality: in short, new investments and cuts to unnecessary costs. On the other hand, the spirit in which we have placed ourselves in the Commission, where our Group's agendas have been approved, which commit the Government to safeguarding employment levels and not reducing the fleet, is this and we would have expected the same from this decree-law. We have not limited ourselves to mere conservation, but have looked further, asking for a commitment with interventions and initiatives for the efficiency of the Lombard-Veneti ports of call in view of the Olympics of 2026. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is true that Minister Patuanelli has given assurances, but, if you have in hand the fate of Alitalia, its employees, the induced and the business of Italian tourism, I expect that even after a little more than a month the situation has been reversed like a sock and analyzed, but the truth is that it is stalled and has not been taken in hand, as well as the other corporate crises on the table of the Ministry; we stand at the stake. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I am not saying that we have the solution to a complex crisis, but that between the Minister and the Commissioner numbers, statistics and possible ways out are being broken down: on the other hand, nothing; it is expected that the rabbit will come out of the cylinder. I wanted clear ideas on the protection of workers, a dry no to redundancies and reassurances on the induced, as well as on the fact that the handling, aviation and maintenance sectors do not become a stew, losing valuable skills. Instead, I heard very vague stories, available in any newspaper or even in a discussion at the bar, and talk only about appointments and finding human resources for the fixed-term management. The time is short: the decree-law indicates a date for the repayment of the bridge loan on 31 May, but it is impossible to respect it and is already defined by the Commissioner himself as unworkable. The Government then does not mock us: 31 May, if so, would be the day of the closure of Alitalia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We point out serious and clear dates and solutions, we do not lose precious months only in search of human resources to make appointments, which perhaps are already present within the company, know it, are already paid and should only be valued. Think of a recovery plan, not a liquidation plan, to be competitive on the market and to have equal conditions and opportunities for Alitalia compared to other airlines. Also in this case, as for Ilva, Autostrade and TAV, passing through fiscal and development policies, we are faced with the contradictions of this Government, which is accumulating the unresolved problems and postpones them because the visions are different, but the armchairs are to be kept. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have two ministers who indicate two different paths, not even parallel ones: you have to go to the rubberist to make a convergence, so it doesn't come out! Minister De Micheli declares not to exclude foreign control, while Minister Patuanelli - when Article 5 of the measure is removed the possibility of conversion of the accrued interest into company shares - relaunches the involvement of the State and hopes that that of Ferrovie dello Stato. So there is nothing specific, but we are not playing, it is the future of thousands of families: no more games! Once this company was the pride of Italy. We need a breakthrough and a long-term vision, not a fixed-term vision. It must begin to become aware that the times are tight and that governing is not putting off constantly, but deciding and taking responsibility. Alitalia - like the Ilva affair, the fantasy tax, the rules and the rules that are not certain, that change and make the investors escape (it is only thought that Coca-Cola moves to Albania thanks to the fiscal policies of the Government) - is the symbol of how you are carrying out the country, with inability, irresponsibility, indecision and incompetence. In your opinion, in the face of this problem management and uncertainty, which investor is willing to bring capital and work for the relaunch of Italy? I'll give you the answer: no one. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u24	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Mr. Representative of the Government, the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 137 of 2019 to which we are preparing today, after a thorough examination and a broad discussion in the Commission, is interesting for the whole country, given the chronic nature of the crisis of our flag company, which for too many years has been experiencing a condition of serious management and financial difficulty. The Decree-Law under consideration, in view of the fact that it is not possible to define quickly the procedures for the disposal of business complexes, intervenes by introducing measures aimed at ensuring continuity of the service carried out in extraordinary administration. In fact, confirming the loan of 400 million euros of the duration of six months, previously previewed from the tax decree, it is allowed to make necessary modifications regarding the procedure of extraordinary administration and the powers of the commissioner body in order to safeguard the operativity of the society. The Decree-Law therefore sets the deadline of 31 May 2020, by which the transfer procedure should be defined. Precisely within this process of defining the program, it is appropriate that the newly appointed commissioner, lawyer Leogrande, indicated by the Ministry of Economic Development in December 2019, intervenes in discontinuity with the past, drawing up a real plan of structural reorganization and efficiency and company, that re-launch the company. In fact, while it is necessary, to the state of affairs, the granting of an additional loan, this cannot be considered sufficient for an effective relaunch of the company and it is therefore appropriate that action is taken effectively, at the same time starting an investment program that allows Alitalia to compete in an appropriate way on the market. It is not a mystery to anyone that today our company covers only 18 percent of the international traffic from and to Italy and that, precisely in the light of this, you can no longer procrastinate the start of an investment program that manages to make the services offered by Alitalia competitive on the world market. It is still unthinkable to believe that we can cope with a company crisis that has been going on for years, limiting itself to committing resources and spending large sums. In fact, we are talking now of 400 million euros, but we cannot forget that with decree-laws 24 April 2017, n. 50, and 16 October 2017, n. 148, as many as 900 million euros have been allocated in total and that in the last fifteen years about, have been dedicated to Alitalia resources equal to almost 9 billion euros. Faced with these sums, which we can therefore define not to relaunch, but assistance (considered that they have guaranteed only a mere survival of the airline, without getting it out of the crisis), it is a paradox to read the traffic data of 2018 published by ENAC, which instead indicate an increase of the traffic of the passengers on the national territory from 2010. This shows that the financial resources allocated, if not accompanied by investment planning, not only to guarantee the duration, but to improve the quality of services, cannot be framed with a view to sufficient measures. It is therefore necessary to work all towards the single objective of an industrial plan of development aimed at the growth and the economic and financial sustainability of the company. We need a credible plan, based on the profit potential of the current business environment, so with greater attention to the areas of flight and maintenance, services for ground handling, aircraft and passengers, and technical and administrative services, so that Alitalia can be considered an excellence of our country with international resonance. All this, however, cannot be without a trade alliance with other companies and other countries that share our goals of relaunching and developing. At this point, we are concerned that some important companies, although they are available for a dialogue for a trade partnership, are not willing to invest and that other companies operating in the infrastructure sector, perhaps on a number of issues, are kept out of the possible financial and commercial agreements. We are also concerned that the possibility of a rope with Ferrovie dello Stato Italiane, regardless of the merit of any agreements, has not had any follow-up, due to the absence of indications from the Government on the participation in the Alitalia affair. Mr Patuanelli, with a great deal of intellectual honesty, did not guarantee the resolution of the matter during the months provided for in the measure, but in the Commission we also listened to the Commissioner, Mr Leogrande, who did not explain in a complete and exhaustive way the situation inherited from the previous Commissioners (perhaps also because he has been in office for a short time) and did not even give us a way to understand, in the short report presented, his idea of a strategic plan for intervention. At the same time, however, we are convinced that there will be other meetings during the months of work and we think that the Commissioner, with the help of the new director-general (which is not really new in the sector, as a former manager of Alitalia during the management of Cimoli and Director-General of Blue Panorama Airlines), will be able to implement an industrial plan at least credible: unfortunately, there are only hypotheses of solution that do not give guarantees of stability. Meanwhile, according to the available data, it turns out that Alitalia has closed the summer period of 2019 with a bending regarding 2018, highlighting a loss of 600 million euros regarding the 3 billion revenues. It is very sad to see that our airline, which can still be considered excellent at European level for safety, maintenance and reliability, is no longer able to compete on the market, despite the resources invested. It is therefore important that the Government intervenes with serious and thoughtful choices on the national airports, which take into account the present and future of Alitalia, in order to avoid the repetition of waste, without identifying a strategic industrial plan. One cannot think of a national plan on airports, indicated as a priority in the activities of Minister De Micheli, without considering the Alitalia affair within it; equally, one cannot ignore the 9 billion euros spent over the years in total absence of concrete solutions. Italy Viva, although with a thousand perplexities on the modalities of management of the case and above all expressing opposition to the hypothesis of nationalizations, that moreover would be anachronistic, will support the conversion of the decree-law in question, in the only perspective of the resumption and the continuity of the service of Alitalia and in full respect of the commitments assumed with the parliamentary representation, guarding on the concrete implementation of the plan of throw again of the company, in order to guarantee the maintenance of the operating unity of the company and the occupational and wage levels of the staff currently employed. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u26	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing how to save a national monument, Alitalia: with a Chamber and above all with the benches of the government so empty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , you understand how much you care about it; or perhaps you prefer not to be in this House for shame. Alitalia is a pride and a source of work, direct and indirect, for activities that leave money and future in Italy. Today unfortunately the brand has been managed so badly to no longer be among the best national brands. In 2008 there was a recovery built on the dismissal of about 10,400 employees and in 2017 there were more 980 redundancies: if the strategic plan is this, I think there is no need for an extraordinary commissioner or even three. In thirty-two months of extraordinary commissioners chosen by the PD, we had 900 million to spend, but no plans. We are still waiting for the report and, above all, the regular contractual gain: it seems that their regular and justified compensation is about 10 million, or 3.3 million each. Today we entrust ourselves to only one special commissioner, one expert: if so, I hope to understand that the cause of Alitalia's deficits are not the current 11,000 employees, who have already given, and too much; Alitalia employees therefore do not touch each other. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We also hope that Europe will not issue fines for possible infringements, but Alitalia has cost so many economic sacrifices to Italians that at any justifiable cost we will try to protect it (it seems that even newborns have paid a quota of 145 euros for Alitalia to date). In the 8th Commission, we have audited Extraordinary Commissioner Leogrande, who will have 400 million to manage in six months, with the difficult task of restoring and restructuring Alitalia, ensuring its continuity of service. Does this government know how to do this? Do you have any strategies? With alliances, sale or sale and maybe keeping a small, considerable or nothing state participation? What is the project you hope will become a reality? What are your repentances? Will you regulate and monitor regional funds for low cost? They bring tourists to Italy, but the money goes outside. Are you going to align the costs in the program contract, still by way of derogation? What are the decisions for slots and frequencies? Do you at Movimento 5 Stars share the choices made by PD such as those on London Heathrow slots, Europe's largest airport? Did you know that we could get it back, as per the contract, but did we "weirdly" sell it to Ethiad, with Montezemolo signing up for Alitalia and Hogan for Ethiad? Loss of 300 million is assumed, although only 60 million are reported in the expert reports. Anyway, it was a bad choice economically, wasn't it? I hope you treasure mistakes, such as the unstrategic purchase of a single specimen, the Boeing 777-300 aircraft which, even if used, does not amortize the cost of configuration and training. Will you reinstate the Solidarity Fund? Do you claim the choice of the extraordinary integration fund, as already for the 1,400 executives, to save 50 million and then ask for advice with uncontrolled parcels? I ask the PD Government to explain why the passage from the Arco (Automatic reservation and communications) - Italian - was allowed, therefore, obsolete, in the presence of an independent system (SABRE, Semi-automatic business research environment), imposed by Ethiad. Here again the cost for Alitalia is about 57 million dollars, plus 30 for fees. I hope it is also crucial for you to renegotiate the different and continuous leasing contracts. However, in May we will be talking again about the Alitalia problem. I hope that we are being blamed for the government's proud satisfaction. On the contrary, woe to the PD to blame the Movimento 5 Stars for the choices of the past and trouble to the Movimento 5 Stars to blame the PD for the choices of the past. You will then of course give them to the League, but tomorrow's past is today and here, is the present. In May you will find yourself talking again about problems, while today you are obliged to give certainties and answers. I hope, however, that today you do not do commercials of the type "yes" begins to fly, because someone who dreamed of being a steward has already crashed, or worse, has crashed Alitalia (metaphorically speaking, of course). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In 2014-2016 on the case Alitalia to the embarrassing spocchia of the steward Renzi the co-responsibility ministers of one of the ugliest figures who remember: Gentiloni Silveri, Pinotti, Calenda, Delrio and Franceschini were aligned; why do I name this combriccola of the Democratic Party with which today the Movimento 5 Stars governs? And so, yes, fasten your seat belts, because, if this data were true (5,500 euros per film, 30,000 for documentaries, 43,000 for music, 480,000 for Medusa Film, 94,000 dollars per month for Twitter and Facebook, more than 1.5 million for supertechnological headphones and, how to forget it, the estimate - just a quote - for a bedroom in an airplane), would be invoices for over 5 million: I hope that's not true, but you doubt about a special expense chapter called in-flight entertainment (IFE) for the Hollywood vice. Does the 5 Star Movement still remember which plane we are talking about, paid with Alitalia's money? The Air Force Renzi, never taken off, wanted and bought by the managers, as admitted even by the above: Renzi and his team wanted to take off with an airplane bought in lease for eight years and cost about 168 million euros more optional, don't pretend not to hear now; the largest industrial flop of Ethiad, paid by the Italians 26 times the amount, which would have also returned in his hands and it seems that everything was in a contract signed with the company Uhtl, based in the Caymans, which was secreted (even for shame, in my opinion). The 5 Star League-Movement Government truncated the contract at 50 million, which, as Di Maio said proudly, had four very salty items of expenditure: leasing (81 million), maintenance (31 million), handling (12 million) and training (4 million); to be added then reconfiguration and hope however that there will be no penalty for the appeal of the same Ethiad. Maio and Toninelli said of Renzi and of the Democratic Party: "the example of the arrogance and power that we sent home on March 4, 2018" [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] "The sense of frustration and anger is enormous," they said; and they continued, like two comedians: "It seems to me that there was a certain Matteo Renzi in the government." Renzi's genius bought a plane of 150 million euros; if this is not changed?So they continued bye bye, Renzi; today we close a dark chapter of our history. Well, you've reopened it! Dear members of the Movimento 5 Stars, do you not roast a little while in reminding the voters of what you promised? Are you not more ashamed of Renzi's state flight, cost Alitalia 150,000 euros to go to see the US Open final between Pennetta and Vinci? Mr President, I should like to end by recalling that Italy, thanks to Alitalia, represents excellence, solidarity and Italianity throughout the world. It represents excellence, because 1,200 technicians carry out activities in order to guarantee efficiency to the fleet: in the four hangars of the hub of Fiumicino and in the 33 airports the high level of performance and reliability is recognized to international level for more than 110 companies; it represents the solidarity for the division cargo of the Italian company for the supply of medicines and humanitarian and the Italianità for the made in Italy in the transport. The League, in conclusion, for all said, cannot support such bill, having not been able to know of programs and strategies. We do not believe that this Government PD-Movement 5 Stars can succeed and can face with loyalty of intent the Alitalia project, with politicians who, in order to remain seated and glued to the armchair, forget offensives and strategic dichotomies. Have you also forgotten the question time of a year ago, in which Senator Wolf was backing Di Maio, who called Renzi a "narcissist," and the Senators Pharaoh - whom I do not see - and Bellanova - even Minister - risked having the session of the Assembly suspended for the continuous and rude interruptions? We at the League in May can continue to ask you what happened to these expenses. Beware, colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, because the steward Renzi said: like it or not like it, I like to run and alone. You don't know where you want to go, but it's definitely not where the Italians want to go anymore. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u28	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Institute of Professional Industry and Crafts (Enrico Bernardi) in Padua, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u29	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ferro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, we are in a situation today, in some respects, which is embarrassing. Speaking of this decree-law without mentioning the other topic on the agenda at the initiative of Senator Lupo, the delegation to the Government for air transport, draws the alarming industrial policy of the Government. Today we intervene for the umpteenth time to give a placebo effect to a company already decorated and technically failed. Air transport in our country also objectively because of previous governments did not adapt to the entry into force of the three packages that the European Economic Community had introduced during the 1980s and 1990s. We are still talking here about flag companies, but there are no more flag companies. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group):]] Today we are talking about Community companies. Gentlemen of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, today the competition is not between this company and another, but between one system and another. Let's analyze ours: the traffic data of 2019 say that 193 million passengers flew in our country. The main concentration - it can only be so - is on the systems of Milan (with 35 million), Rome (49 million) and Venice (14); we are over 70 percent of the entire transported on airport systems. To have as reference competitive airport systems, we quote Frankfurt, which alone makes 80 million passengers a year - the largest Italian system makes 49, just to give some parameters - with a company that is not Alitalia, but Lufthansa. Now, when Frankfurt reached saturation, the second hub in Munich was created: we are on the 50 million passengers, still above the maximum of the Italian hub that makes more traffic, namely Rome. How are we in our country? We have two mini-hubs: Rome, with 49 million passengers, and Malpensa. The hub - for those who understand some air transport - is the center of a system that is powered by satellite airports. One of our two mini-centres is out of the center of gravity, because Malpensa is everywhere but in the middle of a hub. No specific industrial policy decisions have been made over the years. It was objectively wrong to keep Linate open, for example, and to launch the Malpensa mini-hub, with the result that the main European companies, following the third liberalization of the late 1980s, continued - and still continue - to drain interesting traffic, that of continuation: from Linate you go to Paris, London, Amsterdam, Frankfurt and Madrid, from where you then continue. Our gangherata national company, Alitalia, cannot be competitive at three hundred sixty degrees and on all fronts compared to these companies. Alliances are needed, but we have all failed: all those made in recent years by Alitalia have been a failure. Currently Alitalia burns 700,000 euros a day, every day that God sends to earth. Gentlemen of the Government, I expected the Minister to be here today. In fact, beyond the twittering on television about the elections data in Emilia-Romagna, he should have told us what he intends to do about Alitalia and where he wants to take us. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Even this EUR 400 million we are assigning to Alitalia, without an industrial plan and a design, is money thrown into the well. The historical analysis of the damage caused by the collateralism that has always been in Alitalia (my colleague Perosino mentioned it before), but be careful: we have to make precise and drastic industrial policy choices. In order to do so, Mr Secretary-General, we need a national transport plan which is up-to-date, timely and precise, otherwise we will do nothing. The intermodality system must be designed and targets and resources indicated. If we make an organic drawing - which in the state is not there - we most likely succeed. My colleague Perosino recalled the case of Swiss Air, the Swiss flag company: from evening to morning, when one realized that it was out of the market, a drastic operation was decided and it was done. There was some riot, of course, because it cannot be all unpunished in that country, but it resolved. I quote Sabena NV, for those who have forgotten it, Belgium's flagship company, another important situation. The last great manager of Alitalia that you remember was Domenico Cempella: he had seen us right; he made an alliance with a homogeneous company, the KLM, with which we could only be complementary, without vassal of one against the other, but was sent away. That was the right path in the past. Today we are out of the market: whatever solution we implement, it does not bring any concrete results in the medium and long term; transport policy must be redesigned, in particular the air policy. Nothing is said in the decree-law neither of this year nor of the short and medium-term prospects of Alitalia. There are leasing contracts that expire and are not renewed, for a company with 110 aircraft, a dozen of which are used for intercontinental flights. Where do you want us to go, to be competitive with major international players, with ten aircraft, most of which are leased, making intercontinental routes? I ask who understands air transport policy. Are we joining the Lufthansa, Mr. Undersecretary, which has made us understand in all languages that it is not interested except in the traffic of North Italy, that it is continuing and already is fed, on the hubs of Frankfurt and Munich, from Milan Linate, Venice, Turin, Bologna and from the main airports of North Italy? It doesn't even seem to me that Delta is interested in Alitalia (Mr. Undersecretary, please pay attention, at least you). On the transport policy of the company you have to tell us something, and I am sorry that there is no Senator D'Arienzo, otherwise this urgent decree, beyond the legitimacy that you wanted to give to this way of doing, certainly does not take us anywhere. A system is competitive when it is interconnected and the various modes - air, rail and maritime transport - in a sense interact with each other. We have a long way to go: we, for our part, will not fail to make our contribution, but by sailing on sight as we are doing, without a course, a clear policy and concrete answers, even the task that you wanted to give to the extraordinary commissioner risks being an announced failure. We cannot be told of the opposition not to have told you: it is clear that if air transport policy - I say this to my PD colleagues - is in the hands of Senator Lupo, among others (even if his contribution is a contribution), we do not go very far. Gentlemen, it's too delicate a policy to be left in the hands of amateurs. Good job. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u31	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree that we are about to convert takes an important first step in the direction of Alitalia's recovery, and you will not hear me use any other word except that. I've heard all kinds of things, but Alitalia deserves respect and its workers deserve dignity. This is what we are talking about, an attempt at rehabilitation. I would like to make this very clear, because Alitalia remains an indispensable carrier for the country and a company that is however private for more than ten years. I don't want to dwell on the past or talk about more or less brave captains: we have to put courage now, after hearing so much talk, for a long time. It is a private company that has long endured a deep suffering, of which we know the causes: loss of management, asset erosion, inability to make adequate investments in the expansion, failure to renew the fleet (this is true, I have heard it now: few obsolete planes and with a leasing too expensive), inability to expand and increase competition. We are right on the exponential increase in the competition of low-cost flights, because we also have to ask ourselves about this. At this point, however, there is a structural failure, resulting from lack of and inadequate rail connections from major airports. To you it seems possible that the largest Italian cities are not connected to the airports of Fiumicino or Malpensa from the High Speed? There are very few high-speed trains arriving in Fiumicino: on this we should expect an investment from the Railways. We are faced with an industrial crisis and an industrial crisis of this kind has only two alternatives, there are no infigurations. I am sorry for the absence of the Minister and listen to me, Mr Undersecretary, although I understand that the smartphone is important for everyone: an industrial crisis of this nature has only two solutions, rehabilitation, with a great public intervention direct and courageous, or closure. It does not seem to me that in any intervention I have heard the hypothesis of closure, a scenario that we cannot even remotely think of and that we cannot take into account. It would be a tragedy for the workers and for the country and we cannot afford it in the face of other serious industrial crises for which Italy suffers. The only possibility is wide-ranging, reasoned and in-depth public intervention: national, guaranteed and connected carriers, including long-range carriers, must be made sustainable. If this is the framework, a responsible State that inspires its political action to sound cooperation between the public and private sectors, while respecting the Constitution, cannot stand still. We are not talking about nationalising Alitalia, or wasting public money, but about a responsible state intervening to stem the damage done by individuals (do we have the courage to say so?) and to protect a fundamental industrial structure for this country, ensuring its recovery and recovery. This must be done by supporting the necessary investments, but also and above all by protecting the work of people. The word work is present in the first article of our Constitution: to do this it is essential to activate a real long-term industrial plan - an issue on which I will return, Mr Undersecretary - to relaunch and develop the company, guaranteeing full employment and dignity of workers and workers. I open and close a brief parenthesis, addressing my colleagues who know the territory, in particular of Fiumicino, and the many families of workers of this great company that between Rome and Fiumicino reside: for how many years Alitalia's workers were considered privileged workers, full of bonuses, like the car that went to take them and brought them back, the hours of rest and even the possibility that some family members would reach them during the long, very long nights and stays abroad? Is it a privilege, in your opinion, to be able to manage your private life or not to drive the car, after working 18 hours, while all passengers were sleeping? No, I'm not. Probably this argument was a mistake, deliberately fomented against the workers and often used also against the unions, the only ones to have defended the workers in the field of flight. (at 10.58 a.m.) (Followed by Cyrinna). Let us reason on this, because the dignity of work also depends on how the laws protect workers. Of course, social shock absorbers must also be strengthened, and I do not keep it as a second option, but first and foremost there is always only the defence of work, which must remain a priority, working for relaunching. Can support for the employment of Alitalia's workers and workers be a cost to the community? Yes, but it is a sacred cost such as Article 1 of the Constitution: "Italy is a democratic Republic, founded on work" because work is dignity for people. It is good, then, that the House has amended the text of the decree-law, providing that the recovery plan must necessarily take account of employment levels. Compared to the first version presented to the House, there was an intervention on an aspect of the decree-law that, in my opinion, is really fundamental: the time, on which I have not heard much in the speeches that preceded me. Do we really think, Mr Undersecretary, that six months is an adequate time to allow the Commissioner's management to organise an effective recovery plan, using the resources made available by the text in our examination? Are we sure it is economically reasonable to set a deadline in May? As you know, I come from an agricultural experience. The peasants, in Tuscany, say that after August there is Christmas, but after Christmas there is again August: what can we do from today until May, with these resources allocated and with a recovery plan of so short breath? I think that the government must courageously put its hand to this term and give a longer breath to this decree-law. Six months is not enough: put your hand in the milleproroghe; if they make so many unnecessary extensions, let's do this, which would be useful instead. However, some important steps have been taken: one on all, the transition to the single Commissioner: I think it is right to have him, but now we have to give Alitalia a breath and to do so - as I have already said - we have to have time. However, I believe that there is another point to stress: if it takes time and we have invested public money, we must not abdicate to the management control function. Neither the Minister, nor the Ministry, nor the Government, should do this, but neither should we. Having invested public money, we must give management control. This is a fundamental point for me: we need to be very careful about cost reduction strategies and, in particular, about the number of aircraft and the risks of redundancies. Colleagues, really, we don't dramatize the subject of staff, I've talked about it before. I tell you that I have done another job: I have been given the paychecks of a worker from Air France, one from Lufthansa and one from Alitalia. Our workers are cheaper than other European companies, so make sure that the cost of labour is not an excuse for redundancies. [[Recalls of the President]] Mr President, I know I have ten minutes. Have a moment of patience with me. The real theme is therefore the efficiency of Alitalia, without throwing blame on the workers' shoulders. Even with the respect and friendship that I have for my colleagues De Vecchis and Rufa, who have long known the work that is done in Fiumicino and the acts of the City Council and the Commissions, I tell them quietly that, if they did not like the commissioners appointed by the PD, having ruled for a year and a half, they could tell their former colleagues of majority and who wanted to change them. RUFA (L-SP-PSd'Az). It couldn't be done. CIRINNA' (PD). You even had a prime minister who wanted full powers, you could at least be able to change two commissioners. [[Comments of Senators De Vecchis and Rufa]] Anyway, it's okay. Resuming without controversy: the company must be healed and relaunched, supporting investments. The goal cannot be just to make it attractive for a sale or a sale. Let us be clear, Undersecretary Buffagni: I am not sure that the single commissioner you have appointed is a good aerospace technician. It seems to me that the company in which you worked before is also in difficulty: we look out and watch, but we do not prepare the sale, because Parliament will watch over this. I suppose it is possible - and this is a suggestion that I leave in conclusion, thanking the President - that a third body, with the appropriate professionalism, can be accompanied by the Ministry, which constantly monitors the work of governance. We have put a lot of public money and governance can achieve results, but let us think of a management check, which the Council of Public Works could take on, which has transport expertise. I hope that I am wrong about the judgement on governance, about being denied by time and that Alitalia can be rehabilitated. I remember that Alitalia on some routes guarantees continuity (and I think of my Sardinian colleagues and some Sicilians). The domestic routes are not attractive for large foreign companies, therefore the role of Alitalia, also in ensuring continuity, must be respected: it is the flag of the tourism of Italy in the world and in any case an important part of our being citizens of Europe and the world. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Lupo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u33	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u34	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say to my colleague, Mr Cirinna, that I agree with many points in your speech, so much so that your speech seemed to me to be more opposition than majority, because, in fact, we are basically in agreement with some of the issues you have addressed in a precise way, especially with regard to timing. It is true, in fact, that it is ridiculous to think of making an extension in May, with the need for a wider view and before everyone's eyes. I am pleased with that, because I understand that, with respect to the whole majority, your intervention very well reflects the economic and business situation of the company in question. I didn't want to intervene at first. I asked for the opportunity to take a few minutes because, as a member of the Budget Committee, we found ourselves yesterday making an assessment of the text. I have asked for some clarification, but they have not arrived, because I have been clearly told several times that, within the 5th Commission, it is considered only if the measure somehow interferes with the state budget, hanging it or not, in a nutshell. Therefore, all my references to any clarification have not been answered. And the answer is the House: that is why I asked to speak. Maybe I won't have the answers I want, but in any case I ask the same questions again. We are talking about a society whose crisis starts from afar, and it started more than 20 years ago. I didn't say that, but I'm well-documented. Andrea Giuricin, professor of transport economy at the University of Milan Bicocca, said that the roots of this crisis stem from the wrong choices of more than twenty years ago. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I understand that colleagues want to discuss this, but they may even go and take him out.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u35	Colleagues, please, I invite you to follow the discussion in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u36	BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). I mean, it's still Alitalia. At this moment, perhaps, if you really have things to discuss, there are many rooms in this huge building: a small room you find it. Andrea Giuricin said that the crisis comes from wrong choices of over twenty years and, therefore, it is difficult to think that they can be reversed today. Professor Intrieri, from the University of Tor Vergata, then focused on three points. Short and medium distance routes; competition with low cost companies; maintenance costs, which are 40% more than the average of the sector: these are the situations that have a strong impact. And these are precisely the wrong choices made twenty years ago, which today find it difficult to be reversed. The corporate crisis begins. In 2017, with the Government Gentiloni-Silveri, we have the first two tranches of the bridge loan: one of 600 million (Decree No. 50 of 2017) and then another of 300 million (Decree No. 148 of 2017). I remember, however, that the bridge loan has its own peculiarity: it has to be returned in six months, otherwise it is a state aid. Evidence of this is that the European Antitrust has launched an investigation into whether this loan was State aid. The fact is that, even if it did not look like state aid, since 2017 - today we are in 2020 - we have extended it more than 3 times. Not only that: we have given another 400 million, another bridge loan that, within the document that we analysed yesterday, always configures itself as a loan. That is why - I am sorry Mrs Cirinna is not present - she has six months to be returned, because otherwise the procedure is restarted again, not having to be configured as state aid. So we have 900 million plus 400 million and the total is 1.3 billion. There is, then, within the provision, a rule that left me equally perplexed. I refer to paragraph 5 of the Decree-Law amending Article 37, paragraph 4, of Decree-Law No 34 of 2019. The same article authorized the Ministry of Economy and Finance to subscribe, within the limit of the amount accrued as interest on the date of 31 May 2019 on the financing for consideration, to the participation rates in the capital of the newly formed company to which will be transferred business complexes subject to the procedure of disposal. This is gone. With the extension of the bridge loan there were of course interest, estimated at about 140 million. I'm sure you'll all remember that. In this regard a newco was formed, which began to be a kind of envelope in order to be able to translate the new society that would have to accommodate the new industrial asset. And, instead, this didn't happen. By the way, the State also participated. Since it is not possible to have back the burdens that are produced, let us take the quotas. Now, at the end of January 2020, we have a payment of 400 million. I also have great respect for the cost of a few cents of a plastic envelope that I use for spending, but 400 million for a possible programming to get to a financial closing or for a corporate restructuring are a drop in the sea, considering that the 900 million have already been used. What we have is only an extension of the loan, so those are no longer there; we have 400 million "fresh" that have already been used to pay staff salaries and a minimum of maintenance; I would point out that if planes come down like pigeons, we really have serious problems. Compared to the 140 million burdens that are produced, we don't even have the company anymore. Yesterday in the Commission, when I observed that we did not even start the newco, the President told me that it was not the seat; but that was the seat, because not only do we not have the actions in the new newco, but it has not even really started. There is no programme in place, despite the fact that the new Commissioner has told us not to worry and to be calm, because by 31 May everything will be put in place (they only ask for an extension); even if the new CEO, Zeni, denies the reduction of the fleet declaring that the work has just started, once in the arrival straight will understand well all the resources that they serve to operate in a reliable way. We don't know exactly where we're going. We have an important company that has serious problems that have been dragging for over twenty-five years, which have been clarified in several reports by authoritative experts dealing with transport, and not by the undersigned who can have a more or less clear content of the system. However, we know that certain issues are on the table: short routes, companies that make great competition, maintenance. Many employees do not know exactly where they will end up because they are in the Integration Fund; they have managed to have an extension, but sooner or later it will end; then we have the Extraordinary Commissioner and the CEO who say that they are quiet. Big companies like Lufthansa have paraded by telling us that, as the situation is, they don't want to know. I really hope that this is not yet another attempt to put an end to this because we do not know what industrial plan to put in place. You don't have to bring the company to the edge of the abyss and then give it at half price to someone who will keep half of the people employed and will make them redundant, 750 will pardon them, anticipating the money and then get them back. In this way we lose the company that flies the Italian flag and sell it in the most vicious way that it can exist. It is right that the Italians should know all this and it is also right that all those who work in Alitalia, who may be looking at us and above all note the attention of this assembly on the serious problem in question, know that the current Government does not have very clear where to go. The problem is old and probably someone is afraid to step on the feet to those who created it, because in certain situations it is always better to be dorotheists to save everything, goat and cabbage. In the present case, however, there is an airline that has made history and that does not go anywhere in the way outlined. And above all it is ridiculous to hear about financial instruments such as closing, which has its meaning. I was lucky enough to follow a similar operation always in the infrastructure system that didn't lead to anything. Then it was a road, which is still; the state aid has not arrived, the state does not want to hear about it, people are going home and everything is still. In this particular case it is a much more complex situation and I hope that, beyond words, those who have the reins in their hands will be able to take - in order to remain on the subject in question - the right course, the one that manages to make the plane land in a quiet and correct way. I wholeheartedly hope so, because if we look at the approach of the documents submitted to us in particular, there is nothing but clarity. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u37	Senator Messina Alfredo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech today is a testimony. Back in 1973 I was director of the management control of Olivetti, a fantastic company that had 70,000 employees for whom it was a dream to work. In 1973 a very serious fact happened: there was the oil crisis, the price of fuel exploded, the impact on the costs of air transport went from 7 percent to 28 percent, the Alitalia lost the entire capital. Then the sole shareholder in fact was the Institute for Industrial Reconstruction (IRI), which recapitalized the company, sold 50 billion capital and hired a manager, a certain Umberto Nordio, who had more maritime experience than air transport, but still was an expert in services. Dr. Nordio stayed fourteen years in Alitalia, including all the time I was there. He contacted me, in 1973, proposing to go to work in Alitalia, without being able to guarantee the same salary as I received. I would have benefited, therefore, from a lower salary, which I would have accepted only if I had seen a challenge to face. Alitalia in those years was - yes - a company, but perhaps it was also an institution. It had 60 offices throughout the world, which served as consulates in various cities. An Italian citizen who was - for example - in Istanbul, found support at Alitalia to solve local problems. I did not immediately accept the offer of President Nordio, but I decided to meet him and represented the following situation: Italy was at the time a country with a sufficient demand for air transport, due to its territorial dimension, its inhabitants and the cultural characteristics that encouraged citizens of other countries to visit us. We were therefore in the fortunate condition of having the guaranteed demand. The planes we could have had were the same as our competitors; the airport charges were the same as those paid by everyone and the fuel, despite the need to know how to deal with the price, was a component that did not distinguish us from the others. So, we had 60 percent of the costs equal to our competitors. We had to manage our internal resources wisely. Our staff parameters had to be comparable with those of our competitors. President Nordio also told me that he would do everything to avoid exposing Alitalia to any kind of influence from politics, trade unions and the same shareholder. He was determined in this. He asked me if I felt like reorganising the company's accounts. In short, I agreed to go to work in Alitalia, where I stayed fourteen years, during which we renewed the fleet (from the old Caravelle and DC-9 we switched to more modern planes) and reduced the debt by much. In 1988, when I left Alitalia, we distributed 80 billion dividends. This was Alitalia, that is, one company on the market in strong competition with the others. Therefore, I wonder why today we are moving - and I note this from the speeches made - towards an embellishment of society, as if we had to force other partners to enter the capital because they were unable to operate alone. The conditions that Nordio was talking about (airplanes, fleet and costs) are the same as today. So, we're on the market. Why can't Italy have its own national carrier, whether it's a flag or not? Clearly the other companies make the deal with us if they can get something. Politics has fallen into this: just look at the agreements made. Then we complain that the other companies come to steal our traffic, schedules and slots. I believe that today Alitalia needs only one manager, because there are all the conditions for the company to live alone. Alitalia is called a monument, but in reality it is a company that must carry out a public service in an effective, safe and also profitable way. She can't live on taxpayers' shoulders, but she has to be on her own. And there are conditions for this to happen, but you have to be able to manage it with autonomy of judgment. When - for example - you make the choice of the fleet, one of the most important operations for an airline (if a company does not have the right fleet, it has little space), do not imagine how much the pressures are for you to choose one plane instead of another, and the politics in this almost always intervenes. There are some aircraft manufacturers who, in case of purchase, propose to the air carrier a relapse in terms of work, in the sense that they have Italy do part of the aircraft or ensure other activities. It is clear that employment is always - and rightly so - an important problem, but at that point the pressure, if suffered, is harmful to the company. It is therefore necessary for Alitalia to have sufficient autonomy. You must know that air transport is in a state of absurd competition and exasperated competitiveness, and this depends not on the madness of the operators, but on the fact that the factors of production are such as to justify a certain commercial behaviour. You all understand that if a minute before the plane takes off, a passenger arrives and pays a 100 euro ticket, that money is entirely a profit, because the plane has already paid all the costs and, therefore, the companies want that passenger and make a war to the last blood to grab it. This involves very difficult trade policies. With my intervention I just want to underline the fact that an Italian airline can exist and be self-sufficient in our market. What I hear in the Commission and in this House saying is that the girl should be embellished so that she does not remain a spinster, frankly I am puzzled. Italy may have its own carrier, whether flag or not, but it must be able to live with its own strength, independently, on the market. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u39	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Movimento 5 Stars intends to contribute to the relaunch of Alitalia. Market evidence and the most attentive economic observers confirm the favourable moment of the air traffic sector, which is still expanding today. There is a strong dynamism and an intense evolution of the policies of the various airlines, all looking for the best way to take advantage of the many opportunities offered by the market. This is why it is not only worth it, but it is also necessary to work on the relaunch of our flag company. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The external context, in the presence of a serious plan of restructuring and alliances, allows us to achieve this result, to which we must absolutely strive - if I am allowed - for a company that represented Italy in the world and that we are convinced can still represent it with all the excellences and specificities of our country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They make me smile at the criticism of the decree-law in question, which only provides the necessary scaffolding to a path that this Government has already well incardinated. I would like to remind you that Alitalia's problems are, above all, long-standing and have their roots far behind in time. They evoke the season of the most vain promises of parties that have played on the skin of Alitalia workers and Italians all, building around the flag company a cynical and uneconomic system of do ut des with more or less friendly companies. What friends! (Brusio). Mr President, I hear too much buzz. You can kindly call your colleagues, who speak first and then, in fact, do not care about Alitalia. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please let us free the House, because it is not a place of discussion. SANTILLO (M5S). We cannot forget how in 2008 the then center-right government, with the League at the center of operations, sold the intervention of the so-called brave captains for salvation [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , the various Colaninno, Ligresti, Riva, Marcegaglia, Gavio, Benetton, Tronchetti Provera; all willing to get involved in exchange for something from the then Berlusconi government, faithfully and obsequiously supported by the League. "You are patriots," said the then Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, addressing the aforementioned Saviors of the Homeland. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a very serious and dark page of the recent history of Alitalia; a sinister hacking whose damage is still visible. Then came the season that brought within Alitalia the emiratina company Ethiad, which put on the plate less than 400 million euros, obtaining in return from Alitalia, practically under blackmail, with the complicity of politics, some precious slots and large slices of the Millemiglia business. To download a salty account on the Italians, therefore, were these wrong choices [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , carried out by a bad policy that has used Alitalia guiltyly as an instrument and exchange goods. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A report from the office of Mediobanca of 2015 recalled that, from 1974 to 2014, Alitalia cost a total of 8 billion euros to the community. But most of these costs, for more than 4 billion euros, relate to the period 2008-2014, that is those six years inaugurated by the failures of the Berlusconian right centre faithfully revered by the League. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). From the League! SANTILLO (M5S). This is unfortunately the story behind us. We are called upon to remedy this damage and to put an end to the unworthy cow market created around Alitalia. With positive market estimates and the choice of appropriate managers, we are convinced that the company can be relaunched. We know that in the air transport market, never as today, the consolidation of carriers and alliances are decisive. We know how important it is for a company to be an active and integral part of one of these alliances; on its own it is not possible to compete in a certainly dynamic market, but for this same reason full of competitors to confront. By protecting Alitalia's workers, relying on their precious attachment to the company, going to affect other attackable costs that over the years have added up and have weighed the company's balance, focusing on strategic alliances, Alitalia can finally return to flying with pride. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u41	We greet teachers and students of the Istituto professionale "Enrico Bernardi" in Padua, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]] We also greet teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo statale - Luigi Settembrini - Rome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u42	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u43	Mr President, I am not going to reply, but I am going to make a few brief comments. It seems to me that in all the interventions carried out there is - on the one hand - concern about the situation we are experiencing and the awareness of the complicated moment that Alitalia is going through and - on the other hand - the need for action. This is very important because - as I have mentioned in the report and I repeat now - Minister Patuanelli in the Commission - I am addressing Senator Rufa in particular - and the Government has been present and the Commission has not done an ulterior job. There were hearings of government commissioners, union forces and with Minister Patuanelli the comparison was aimed mainly at looking to the present and the future. From the interventions that have followed, not least that of my colleague Santillo and also that of great authority of Senator Messina, a complicated situation is expected. Nobody thinks they have the saving recipe in their pockets, but we are all aware that an effort must be made in order to have an Alitalia airline that can be on the market with all the actions that are expected to do with the commissioner, the minister vigilant and also - I stress - with the continuous and complete information of the competent parliamentary committees. The cost of staff, which is not in disorder, the relaunch of the company and the huge public resources invested over the years have been highlighted. All of us have a call to responsibility and hope for the future. [[Applause from Senator Wolf.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u44	The representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in the reply. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and on the amendments, which will be published in the annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u45	Mr President, I am against all the amendments and we ask Senator Pergreffi to withdraw Amendment 1.2, as it is absorbed by the agenda G1.102. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1,100, G1,101 and G1,200 (text 2). On the agenda G1.102 the opinion is in favour if the mechanism is reworded as follows: "It commits the Government to ensure that - in the additional plan of interventions and initiatives of reorganization and efficiency of Alitalia of which in premise - not a reduction with unjustified disengagement, but a propedeutic dimensioning to the relaunch of Alitalia". This replaces the device. I am against the draft agenda. On the agenda, Mr G1,104, the opinion was in favour if it were reworded as accepted by the Commission. The device is replaced as follows: "it commits the Government to ensure that - in the supplementary plan of interventions and initiatives of reorganization and efficiency of Alitalia of which in premise - specific attention is reserved to the Italian airports of which Alitalia will be used to favor the Winter Olympics of 2026, starting from those sites in the Lombardy and Veneto Regions, in order to strengthen the services (handling and aviation) guaranteed by Alitalia itself in the aforementioned ports of call, given their infrastructural and transport centrality in the context of the Olympics." On the agenda G1.105 the opinion is in favour if the last paragraph of the operative part appears from the words "to facilitate" to the words "five Members." It is expected that the last paragraph of the provision will be deleted because we have considered that the parliamentary Commission and the vigilante minister are already sufficient. As regards the premises, it is asked to delete from the paragraph from the words "in place" to "his" and to start with the following words "the relaunch of the company" is still possible... I am against the draft agenda G1,106 and amendments 1.0.1 and 1.0.2 which have been withdrawn from the Commission and I expect the same to happen in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u46	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u47	Senator Pergreffi, do you accept the call to withdraw amendment 1.2 and reformulate the agenda G1.102? PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Where an opinion contrary to the 5th Commission is indicated in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution, if there are no different indications, I shall proceed with the intention that the presenters insist on the vote. Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senators Mallegni and Messina Alfredo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.2 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3, tabled by Senators Mallegni and Messina Alfredo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Pergreffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.5, tabled by Senator Pergreffi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the day G1,100, G1,101, G1,200 (text 2) and G1,102 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.103, tabled by Senator Candiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Senator Romeo, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.104? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u50	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, I would ask you to be able to sign this agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u51	As there are no objections from the proposers, the Presidency accepts its request. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.104 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. Senator Mallegni, do you accept the proposed reformulation of the agenda G1.105? MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Having been accepted by the Government, the agenda G1.105 (text 2) will not be put to the vote. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.106, tabled by Senators Mallegni and Messina Alfredo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u54	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we withdraw him.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u55	Let us move on to amendment 1.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.0.2 tabled by Senator Rufa and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The examination of Article 1 of the draft law was concluded. I have been told that in the short term it would be agreed to proceed with the explanations of vote and the final vote on the draft law at the conclusion of the Conference of Leaders, convened at 3 p.m. I will not comment, I will suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.44 p.m. and resumed at 16.46 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u58	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, today more than to make an explanation of vote we are called to express our sense of responsibility and our commitment to the whole country, Alitalia and the workers of the company and we do so with many doubts, also because we are adhering to a hypothesis of rescue using public resources, as many as 400 million euros, resources that we cannot afford to waste just for the respect due to the Italians. For this reason, after the period provided for in the decree-law to carry out the procedures necessary for the reorganization, we will not be willing to accept further extensions and derogations in the absence of a precise and credible industrial strategic plan that is effective to relaunch the company from the managerial and financial point of view. Unfortunately, Alitalia's crisis has persisted for too many years and the nine billion euros invested in the past have not served to restore conditions of competitiveness of the company on the international market. You can no longer think of managing corporate crises using public resources and, specifically, you cannot think that Alitalia can compete in a condition of loneliness without creating necessary economic and commercial alliances with other subjects. One cannot ignore a strategic industrial plan that involves not only the realities of the same sector, but that starts from new ideas of relaunching the organizational and business activity. Unfortunately, at the hearing of the Commissioner, Mr Leogrande, we did not have much clarification about the industrial plan, yet to be built, nor about the objectives and the way in which we intend to proceed, nor was it understood whether we really want to re-launch the company or continue, parcelling it, to make it survive, in the total worthlessness and irrelevance of the operation. In all this, however, one thing is clear: Italy Viva is not willing to accompany Alitalia in the aftermath of a bankruptcy, just as it is not willing to silence in the face of childish tactics, which impoverish the potential for relaunching and profit of the company. Instead, we need to re-evaluate the possibilities of agreements with airlines from other countries, with companies active in the field of infrastructure and transport, putting aside other issues, often only ideological or pointy issues, which, instead of being assessed separately, enter into the Alitalia affair, negatively affecting not only the relational choices, but reducing the potential for implementation of the strategic transport plan. Colleagues, in this decree-law is indicated a program of extraordinary administration procedure for the cession of the business complexes on the basis of a plan of initiatives that guarantee the productive continuity of the industrial plant of national strategic interest, but do not convince us at all the latent hypothesis of nationalization, rather anachronistic and not able to assure a future to Alitalia neither let alone economic developments in the field of the aerial transport of our Country. In this climate of uncertainty it seems that the action of the State, which should intervene in extreme cases in place or rather in the absence of economic policies of competitiveness and competition on the markets, must always and in any case be allowed, without creating paths in discontinuity from the past and continuing with unnecessary expenditure of energy and resources. For us in Italy, Viva is not like that. Our idea of relaunching the country, our idea of developing competitiveness on the international markets, our idea of support for companies, and in this case of support to Alitalia, regardless of pure and simple assistance, on the contrary does not include assistance, because our idea is a driving force for relaunching and active presence on the economic and industrial front. Our idea is to intervene strategically creating decisive alliances and partnerships, working, as already announced by Minister De Micheli, to a concrete national plan of the transports, creating the conditions to unlock the resources, (and we know that on the airport ports there are as many as four billion euros), identifying the criteria to invest the available resources in front of an objective of increase and implementation of the potentialities of the immense capital of our Country, deciding in order to simplify the procedures and speed up the choices. Therefore, firm in our beliefs of serious possibilities of a concrete development of our Country and of pride towards excellences like Alitalia company and believing that the decree can help it to maintain the continuity of services, but always working in the perspective of a credible relaunch of the sector, decisive in order to obtain profitable results, that starts from courageous ideas and free from prejudices and ideological beliefs ends in themselves, I express, on behalf of Italy Viva, the vote favorable to the provision. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u61	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor for an explanation of vote on behalf of the Mixed Group on the decree-law before our examination, on which I pre-announce our vote in favour. This decree ratifies the appropriation of 400 million euros for Alitalia in order to avoid the paralysis of the company for lack of liquidity. This non-refundable gift - let us say what it is - cannot be regarded as a single and sufficient answer. Our vote is therefore linked to the hope that this further loan (let's call it this) will be at least the necessary instrument but prodromic to the real relaunch of Alitalia in the interest of the entire country. Alitalia is not one of many, unfortunately, big companies in crisis for which we must consider the direct or the induced economic and social sacrifice. Instead, it represents something very different, that is a strategic asset for our country that helps to support tourism that represents 12% of the national GDP. It is clear that if tourism were assisted and encouraged through the valorization of the company, increasing its ability to convey to our country flows that today stop in other European localities, the percentage of GDP of 12% would certainly increase, as happens in Spain, where air transport creates a volume of traffic greater than the Italian one for 45 billion euros. The procedure that is being implemented may at this point result either in the transfer or in the formation of a new company, with the possible participation of the State. In practice, we have to ask ourselves whether this additional loan, which serves to restore cash liquidity, is sufficient to correct our flag company's route. The current situation stems, as we all know, from a twenty-year history, during which EUR 9 billion was wasted. It is a paradigmatic and exemplary story of the real costs of bad politics and, consequently, of bad management, costs that the Italian taxpayer has endured to no avail, spending, of course, much more than it would have been necessary to invest in order to buy an entire fleet of long range and to revive the flag company in international context. The bad choices made in recent years, however, have meant that the sacrifices of Italians could not avoid the loss of competitiveness and operational capacity, despite and, indeed, due to the reduction of 22,000 workers to 12,000 and mainly due to the sale to competition of the best routes, the most profitable slots and millions and millions of passengers. As everyone has pointed out, there is no doubt that today's situation is worse than it was twenty years ago. Between 2008 and 2017 Alitalia was a privatised company. No one can therefore impute the current insolvency situation to public management. It was the private operators who determined this situation. In particular, with the management of Etihad there has been a real plundering of the flag company. Indeed, Alitalia's labour costs have not determined or helped to determine the current crisis situation. It - as we were able to see in the Commission at the hearing and as, to be honest, it has been found also by many colleagues - is even lower than the average cost that supports the companies of similar level of service. Alitalia's 11,434 employees account for 19 percent of the costs, while in the other companies (Lufthansa and Air France) the cost of staff is about 23 percent. But the most significant is that of the total operating cost, which for Alitalia affects 17%, while for Lufthansa the total operating cost is 26 percent, that is 9 percentage points more. The core of Alitalia's endogenous problems lies in the stellar agreements on fuel costs, the high interest rates on aircraft leasing and the totally unjustified externalisations, such as those for maintenance or training courses for staff in Abu Dhabi, staff who are, among other things, rightly considered to be among the most qualified and best trained. To an analysis even superficial, it must be seen that the causes of the crisis are not to be found only in endogenous factors and, therefore, can be faced by a prudent, careful and prudent management. The crisis factors, in fact, also derive from context factors, i.e. external to the perimeter of the company and these cannot be addressed and resolved by a change of management. Among these factors of context there are, in particular, those for which in many territorial realities the managers of the low-cost companies receive real financing, to the detriment of the flag company and with the result of distorting the competition. This funding has a huge impact. In addition, Alitalia's flag carrier uses the Fiumicino hub for 80 percent of its passengers, which imposes costs considerably higher than those of all other airports: almost twice the cost. We know that the airport management company in Fiumicino belongs to the same family that runs the highways. Both endogenous and external, contextual, exogenous factors in society must be addressed with a well-made analysis. Instead, the downsizings implemented in recent years have proved counterproductive, having actually caused a reduction in capacity and supply just when the global air transport market, after the 2001 crisis, was constantly growing, increasing by 8 to 10% each year. Meanwhile, Alitalia's offer has decreased. We have said, I repeat, that this loan is necessary. However, in the absence of measures and decisions which, in the short term, give a signal of discontinuity, with respect to the counterproductive action of reducing the commercial supply and cutting the staff, it will result in a situation of real impotence. It is necessary, in fact, to adopt a structural solution, in fact, to a diagnosis that is more careful. We have been giving Alitalia treatment for 20 years without making a serious diagnosis of the problems that afflict her. We gave basically, even with these bridge loans, aspirin to a sick person who is terminal. In the end, that is all that will happen: that we will not be able to avoid a real sale of national strategic assets. In the current situation selling to the market means selling out, it means fragmenting the company in aviation, handling and in the various functions. The State therefore needs to prepare a serious recapitalisation to protect the interests of the community. You must not be afraid of words. It is clear to everyone that temporary nationalisation of society is necessary. In order to have a railway service adapted to the needs of the country, the railways, every year, benefit from approximately ten billion public money, for over thirty years. We do not understand, then, why an asset as strategic as that of Alitalia, that is the flag company, should not be the subject of as much attention. It is necessary to go through a temporary nationalization that, within two to four years, can allow to intercept greater flows of traffic, to restore a value and a capital for the Country and to convey tourist flows in Italy. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u64	Ruspandini (FdI). Mr President, Brothers of Italy announces your abstention vote. We will abstain, because we will not be the ones to prevent a solution, to deny the possibility of a rescue, the possibility of finding a buyer. We're never gonna do that. It will not be us who deny the work to the many families of Alitalia's induced, to all those who risk to suffer the mistakes of politics and managers, yes, those who are lavishly paid. We immediately try to debunk one of the great myths that revolves around Alitalia. It is not true that the cost of work and the cost of Alitalia's employees is higher than that of other flag companies. Even, it has less impact than Lufthansa: 19.2 percent in Italy compared to turnover. We will abstain for these reasons. We would certainly have liked to have voted no, to shout out our no to a approximation that we call appalling, and not so much to the many things that we have heard here in this House, namely the causes of the crisis that you have all forgotten and which you have all listed, of which almost everything has been said: the high costs, the wrong industrial choices, the excessive diversification of the air fleet, the weakening of long-haul routes, which are the most profitable. All this not to mention the sick relationship with Fiumicino, an incredible internal competition relationship, which we have somehow sought, in opposite way to the big international hubs, Frankfurt and Munich on all. So we will abstain, but we would have liked to vote no, precisely because we lack an overall vision, a strategy of relaunching and, let's say, reflections to be included in the political agenda of the parties and the good parlors. You can't keep pretending nothing, because not talking about Alitalia means not loving Italy. All this is missing in the agenda of the parties, in the reflections carried out here and in the national debate, and this has a dangerous and negative impact on the path that we are about to confirm. We will abstain, therefore, but the Brothers of Italy Group wants to give the Assembly and ourselves a contribution, remembering how great Italians have been in the history of aviation. We talk about Alitalia as if it were yet another rock to be overcome to make ends meet, by a Government that looks to Alitalia not as an opportunity, but as if it were yet another test to be overcome. However, think that Italians are the ones who have held almost all the records regarding the flight, with reference to the speed, altitude and duration of the trips. We were capable of unimaginable efforts, from engineers and pilots. While we are talking hard about Alitalia here, seen as a business to deal with, exactly a hundred years ago we flew from Rome to Tokyo, with a legendary company, which they also remember as such in Japan. These days, in Japan they are organizing celebrations in great style, to remember our air knights, Arturo Ferrarin and motorist Gino Cappannini, who managed to accomplish an incredible feat, traveling 18,000 kilometers across Europe and Asia, up to Japan. This is Italy that we like to remember and not that of the negotiations, which lead to yet another loan, without having a vision. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u67	MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, if we were to think today only of the additional loan of EUR 400 million, plus interest, which expires on 31 May - I believe that in the other speeches, both in general discussion and in explanation of vote, we have only talked about this - we would not render a service to the Assembly, nor to those who listen to us, nor to Alitalia. In my view, we must put ourselves to the debate, which today commits this House, in a constructive spirit. I believe that over the last ten or eleven years, illustrious predecessors of ours have been involved in operations, which frankly have not brought exactly good to Alitalia. So, probably, we have to deal with this with a look at the national interest. I'm getting closer to the concept: Alitalia is one of the most significant brands in Italy and it is from there that you have to start, because it would probably be worth more selling the brand - and we would be more facilitated in doing so - that everything around it, since our 115 aircraft - three are in maintenance, otherwise they would be 118 - are composed of eight different aircraft models. I tried with a little effort to go and see all the companies in the world: I think we are one of the most prolific models of airplane. There are companies - belonging to European nations that, like us, stand between the first and fifth places among the economic powers - that bill between 16 and 34 billion per year with one or two aircraft models. Why do I stigmatize this? In order to try to introduce a concept that, in my opinion, has masterfully expressed my colleague Messina in the general discussion, and here I ask a question: would you ever make me do an open-hearted operation? Probably not, because the patient would definitely die. Then why for so long have we managed an airline to someone who might have taken a lot of airplanes, but had never operated airlines? It is the concept around which we have marked all our work, both in the Commission and here in the Chamber, focusing on competence: 11,000 employees, almost 2,000 pilots, 5,000 flight attendants, plus ground staff; a huge number of people, representing our flagship company (although I have been told that this is no longer the case, but we are talking about the European carrier of reference, I continue to call it our flag carrier). What is the problem that we are facing today, then, and that we must responsibly grasp in a positive way? Do we want to maintain a carrier with the characteristics of the flag company, yes or no? Does this not mean that it is necessarily owned by the State, but do we want to have, yes or no, an airline that - thinking of Alitalia today, which already carries more than 22 million passengers - is that important brand of the '70s-'80s, when it was among the top five of the world and was a guarantee for the State, but especially for the passengers who chose it as a reference for quality and safety? Do we have these characteristics today? Does the passenger warn you in Alitalia? It pains me to say, but no, absolutely not. In these years we have sold parts of this asset - and I'm only talking about English slots in the Etihad period - as if, in essence, we had the car, but not the wheels. It is useless to have planes if you do not know where to land them or if the slots, which represent nerve points, significant are sold, or rather if those who participated in the company drained it for their own interests and not Alitalia. However, it is not so bad that there was someone who dried it up, but someone allowed it. This is the fundamental issue. Today we have the responsibility to say what we want to do with Alitalia, but first of all we have to decide if we still want a company. Our answer is that we want it and we must try to bring together transport issues, not just air transport, because we need intermodality between rail and air. I wonder what the Florence-Rome flight is going to take when between Santa Maria Novella station and Peretola airport in line of air there will be 1000 meters and with a Frecciarossa train, that every fifteen minutes passes to that station, in an hour and twenty-nine minutes arrival to Termini station; in the same way I also ask the sense of maintaining a Rome-Naples flight. First, speaking with my colleague Lupo, I said that I identified the Alitalia company as the municipal pharmacy; Mr President, allow me, as local administrator, I always fall on events related to the territory; someone in the city council claimed that the municipal pharmacy had to sell drugs (from counter and not from counter) at lower prices, because it is municipal property. On the other hand, I replied that the municipal pharmacy is a company that must gain and be competitive on the market; if then at the end of the year this company obtains profits, it reinvests them in the public, in the company itself, in the production cycle. That's what Alitalia missed. If we want to set up a flight from Rome to the Cinquale airport in Forte dei Marmi (of course the planes do not land us), we ask that airport to give us the resources: it is called co-marketing activities and companies like Ryanair usually do it on the national market. We ask for state aid and we, through the chambers of commerce and the municipalities, give resources to foreign companies, feeding entities that do not pay taxes on national territory, to the detriment of companies like ours who pay them and has 11,000 staff living on our soil. That's not possible! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We have tabled amendments and a preliminary question because we have become tired of the decree-laws, but we understand the institutional structure and activity. We have voted in favour of the adoption of the agenda G1.105 (text 2), which I tabled with my colleague Alfredo Messina, and we want to trust this perspective of a different Alitalia, so we will abstain in really constructive terms. I hope that my speech has been clear and shows the will of our contribution to this type of activity. I ask the majority and the Government to take the Commission into account, because from there it is necessary to pass through the measures, the information, the necessary insights. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in the Commission and the Government for the proposal he has put forward. As I said earlier, our vote will be an abstention. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u70	D'ARIENZO (PD). Mr President, thank you for your kindness just now in anticipating Mr Mallegni's speech. I would like to thank - it would not be up to me, but I am speaking on behalf of the Democratic Party - all my colleagues in the Commission for public works, communications for the good work they have done and for the summary of many of the proposals put forward by my fellow Members in the context of the Commission's examination. The object to our attention is known to all. The measure under consideration essentially grants a new loan to Alitalia companies for EUR 400 million, lasting six months. The measure is not in discontinuity with the past. Going to research the various regulatory interventions that have affected the former flag company, we come to count about five, some of which already in the past (I refer in particular to 2017) have also been of financing in order to reach the same aims that the measure in question aims, although with some innovations in particular with regard to the extraordinary administration procedure still in progress. These are the general terms that deal with the so-called Alitalia decree. It would also be useful to take a much wider view of what is happening in the air transport sector, in the sense that we give the will to give the loan to Alitalia because I am intimately convinced - I think I understand it from the debate in the Commission and also from the debate in the Assembly - that there would be no different options than those that the Government has carried out for the airline area. In fact, the difficulties that have manifested themselves altogether in the field of the aerial transport around the world (and in particular in our Country) and the instruments available have not allowed neither yesterday, nor today alternative paths, in the awareness - ahinoi - that those idealities and those developments that we all imagined in recent years on the fleet and the potentialities of Alitalia can no longer come back. And yet it was unthinkable and impossible even to imagine that Alitalia could miss the connection through the sky with the world. Alitalia cannot in any way give up such an opportunity at a time when, as is well known, the demand for mobility and transfer of goods and passengers around the world is so high. And this is the reason why I appreciate the balance with which the representatives of the Groups that are not part of the majority have favored the discussion, in the awareness of the need to give our country the possibility of a connection of this nature, as well as the impossibility - or difficulty - of regulatory measures that could go in another direction. And yet, in view of this consideration which I believe to be unanimous, in the discussions of the previous measures on Alitalia and also of the current one there has been that right balance between the need not to disperse the experience, the know-how and the connection of Italy with the world, on the one hand, and the revival of the opportunities of Alitalia's air space offer, on the other. Here I would like to reflect on the future, given for the acquisition of the loan and the rescue of the former flag company. In fact, the commitment that Italy must face cannot end when - we all hope - the industrial partner will find itself that, together with Alitalia, can relaunch the lines. In fact, there is a need for the Government to continue to keep the attention high so that that offer that Alitalia gives today to various parts of the Country can be more and more enlarged, offering opportunities of connections also to other ports of call or strengthening those current, so as to increase more and more the connection with the world. Here, too, a balance must be sought. That relaunch of which we speak and that commitment that on the part of the Government there must also be for the future serve not only to ensure that Italy is always connected with the world, but also to safeguard and - why not - develop the occupational levels, on which all, with an agenda, we have drawn attention so that there is no dispersion of those skills, knowledge and professionalism that Italy has matured over many years. The commitment of the future government not only goes in that direction, but must also foster the connection by land in certain respects. As is well known, some of the Italian airports - unfortunately the majority - lack that intermodal connection to their interior, in order to ensure that the passenger or the goods can be hijacked on the national territory in every place. Therefore, in the future, after the decree-law and the placement of Alitalia, we must ask ourselves about the intermodalities that can be determined between the air and the rotabili routes. Intermodality will therefore be another of the opportunities that will allow the development of air transport by connecting the great international realities with our country. I will conclude by referring to another route that will give us the opportunity to address the issues of air transport. In the Commission we will shortly start the process of reflection and discussion on the law delegation to the Government for the reorganization of air transport. That instrument will be an opportunity for Parliament to stimulate the Government and participate in the reflection, to ensure that, after the resolution of the Alitalia problem, which we all hope and hope for, there can be the concentration of all the ideals to which I have referred so that that solution is not only a sale, but also an opportunity to relaunch the national and international air transport system. For these reasons, the vote of the Democratic Party Group will be strongly in favour. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u71	We greet in the gallery the representatives of the Italian Center of Higher Studies for training and updating in radio and television journalism. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u74	BRIZIERELLI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have to say that some of my colleagues have started from afar, someone since 2008 and someone even before. I would like to leave earlier and mention what happened a few centuries ago here in Rome, when young people of good family spent more than they could afford and asked for loans from dead father. Well, what the Conte Government is doing here in Parliament today is the same thing: it comes to ask for a bridge loan and does not even put a face on it. I do not know if it is in connection via WhatsApp with the undersecretaries Buffagni and Malpezzi, but certainly neither President Conte nor Minister De Micheli nor Minister Patuanelli is here in the Chamber and - may I say so - neither is Minister Hope. Maybe Minister Hope will deserve to come tomorrow - we will hear what the Capigroup has decided - since Alitalia's unions ask for light on how they should behave [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] in the face of a recent crisis. You think British Airways is blocking flights to and from China, and the same is true of the United States, and we're giving the employees a supermarket mask. These are the situation and the respect that we have in a civilised state of staff working at our airports. Well, in the face of all this, the scandal is not to come and ask for a bridge loan; given the situation, there would be no more. We all know that from 2017 to today we are already 1.3 billion. I mean the figure also in lire because it has another effect: 26,000 billion lire invested - I hope - in Alitalia. The problem is that you don't know where you take this bridge, because it just lengthens the time since you weren't able to give a solution. Nobody expected an industrial plan from the government, but a rag of strategy, yes. We all remember the proclamations of Di Maio and then Minister Toninelli while they were inside the Air Force Renzi and said that we would never again witness an absence of transport strategy; we would never have seen such choices again. Unfortunately we have never had the opportunity to hear them speak to the Government of transport; while while absent, because the bench is empty today, surely the presence of Renzi weighs like a boulder on this majority and also on Alitalia for the responsibilities that that Government has had. (17.31) (Briziarelli followed). Well, in the face of all this, nothing has been given to know: a word has not been said not only in this House, but also in the Commission. In 10th Commission, Mr Ripamonti, who asked for Alitalia's hearing, did not listen to him either, and Alitalia has not yet been seen in that Commission. On the other hand, I had the opportunity to follow all the hearings in the Transport Committee, I reviewed the videos today and I have the report here with me. Co-worker Vono: a lot of auditions, few answers, not to mention none. And then you can ask us to abstain from voting on the decree-law, but not to refrain from saying how things really are. Some things about the times have been said, at a time of intellectual honesty, even the rapporteur. We all know that the six months provided for in the decree-law for full return are unrealistic. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have to tell ourselves. I quote the rapporteur: he has said that he is aware of the contradiction of the measure we are debating, which is due to expire next May. However, we really want to work and we know that time is limited and more is needed. The rest was also said by the Commissioner. Let's not make fun of each other. We can ask ourselves to have courage, but we must have courage; you - I said to Mr Cirinna - do not have courage. You are without shame in denying the evidence of things. So we talked about the times. We didn't get an answer about the dichotomy in the government. Is it true what Minister De Micheli said to the Chamber and to the transmission "Porta a Porta" (Porta a Porta), not excluding foreign control for the company, or is it true what Minister Patuanelli, also in the Commission to the Senate, did not exclude a state intervention, so important is the company for our country? We go from one extreme to the other, but we don't have a government line. We have not been given an answer on this issue. In all sincerity, we have little change from three Commissioners to the Commissioner himself. The problem is what this Commissioner will do, and neither the Commissioner nor the Director-General have taken any doubt from us. And do not tell us here again today my colleague Wolf - save us - that this is the first time that we have in Alitalia someone who understands of planes, for two reasons: first - it is good to give the size and with all respect for Blue Panorama - an account is an invoice company 300 million, an account is an invoice company 3 billion; an account is a company that counts 18 aircraft; an account is a company that counts 113. Secondly, my colleague, Director-General Zeni is the third time he arrives in Alitalia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; If the other two have remained so hidden that it is the first time that it arrives, perhaps they have not been so incisive presences and we hope that the next one is more so. We didn't get any answers on the alliances. It is undeniable that some members of this majority have done everything, even outside the conventional schemes, to support Lufthansa instead of Delta, perhaps forgetting to say that here we are authorising a 400 million bridge loan and exiting the Atlantic alliance would cost 480 million in a year. As well as outside, we did not even have any answers on the national and internal strategy. Is it possible that the CEO of Ferrovie Battisti goes to the House to the Commission and says no one contacted him? Is it possible that a minister should intervene to say that perhaps it is necessary to involve Ferrovie and that Commissioner Leogrande can safely say that he has actually met him, even if it has not been understood whether officially or not? He seems to have said that, according to him, a personal reasoning with the State Railways must be done. We do not care what the commissioner thinks personally; we are interested in knowing the government line and the official position of the company. That's the point. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Personal opinion can easily express it with four friends at the bar, but it cannot come to us in a Senate Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As for staff, you don't play with people's lives as you play with words like that. Director Zeni - three times we asked him if he excluded redundancies, but he was better than St. Peter - said something different, and I invite you to reread his speech: in the light of the facts, as things stand at present and as the analysis has not yet started, he excludes the numbers reported today in the newspapers. One thing is to say that numbers are excluded now and one account is to say that there will certainly be no redundancies. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] When asked exactly, no one ruled out redundancies. Since words make sense, one thing is to say that employment levels are taken into account and another to guarantee employment levels. It was said about aircraft and maintenance. Of course, if we send the airplanes to Singapore or Dubai for maintenance, that's a problem. It has been said that the routes to Santiago de Chile have never produced useful and, then, it's okay to review, but don't quit. I am going to conclude by saying why it is worth the effort. It is not therapeutic: Alitalia is today a company that has, however, increased profits in 2018, in 2019, which is now increasing them and which has seen increased revenues on tickets sold online, which has routes like Tokyo passed from less 25 million to more 10 million assets. It can be done if one believes and not with a renunciation attitude like that - I regret it - of Minister Patuanelli. We do not accept that it says that nothing can be done on the revenue front. We believe that this can also be done. The only regret is not being able to express these considerations to Prime Minister Conte with his clutches. Maybe we would have recommended a theme pin, being a flight, but not in the form of a noble eagle - it is the one that is often associated with the flight - rather in the form of an ostrich, which is always a bird, but more in line with the politics of its Government, because it does not stand out the flight and in the face of problems puts its head under the sand, as the Government Count on Alitalia is doing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u77	LUPE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with an analysis and an overview of the context of air transport. We are talking about a global market, highly competitive, characterized by high interdependence, with strategic suppliers and highly specialized figures and, not least, obviously regulated. It is the sector in which Alitalia also operates and not only. I do not think it is necessary to tell you, as already anticipated in the main premise, that the largest national air carrier, the flag carrier, over the past fifteen, twenty years has been martyred not only by the little strategic foresight, but also by plans constantly lagging behind with the evolution of models, by the managerial inexperience - the latter is not at all understandable, given the salaries bestowed - and, in part, by the political one; it is understandable, but it must not be forgotten that politics is responsible for the direction of the system. This little upbuilding picture has meant that Alitalia, instead of generating profits in these years of record profits, has found itself facing one crisis after another, with all the consequences we know well, affecting employees, airport managers, suppliers, the whole induced. And let us not forget, of course, the Italian citizens, who are also called upon to pay for other people's mistakes, finding themselves without a strong flag carrier. Air transport is growing, yes, but it sees greater and constant competition. This increased competition generates - as you can imagine - a strong pressure on revenues, which admits as the only way to survive a strong discipline on the cost side and, above all, the indispensable presence of an efficient and effective country system in regulatory terms. The strong competition, the increase of the cost of the fuel - the main item of cost within the airline even 30% of the operating cost - and the previous lack of an infrastructural strategy of the Country are all elements that have compressed and compress the margins strongly, pushing more and more upwards the break-even load factor, that is the index of filling of the flights, to amortize the costs. What's the result of that? Certainly we need to keep costs under control and have a new and efficient business model, a dynamic and responsive company to the market, but also a coordinated system, a country behind us. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I say this not for the sake of the end of stateism in itself, but simply by looking at what happens in other European countries: nobody abandons their own carriers; nobody allows a wild competition in which everyone is free to do what he wants, taking money from airports, also public ones, then leaving to the State the management of the rubble of an almost Darwinian system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The latest cases in Europe of turnarounds have been characterized by large corporate investments, a strong discipline on costs - as we have already said - with a country director, and a consolidation of the market, on which I will dwell for a moment. Like the other majors, Alitalia struggles to stand alone, that famous stand-alone that was used years ago. Here is a quick overview of how they behave in the rest of the world. In the United States, but also recently in South America, the road to consolidation has already been largely crossed. There are three mega global carrier hub oriented, i.e. groups born from mergers and acquisitions, such as American Airlines with US Airways, United with Continental Airlines and Delta Air Lines with Northwest Airlines. Then there is a big low cost. These four carriers virtually control 80 percent of the domestic market; the remaining 20 percent are obviously controlled by small low cost companies that generate ultra low cost. They work well both types. The European market, on the other hand, sees 19 air carriers over 20 million passengers per year, with the low cost market approaching 50% of the transport. There are three mega hub oriented groups and here there is consolidation: IAG with British Airways, Iberia, Vueling and Air Europe; then there is Air France with KLM, almost in crisis, and Lufthansa with Austrian Airlines, Brussels Airlines and Swiss International Air Lines; Alitalia alone. Together they barely control 50% of the European market; four legacy carriers, which are tourist charters, and six low cost carriers, of which three are independent. Europe, therefore, has a rather fragmented scenario that is creating many problems for its carriers (i.e. failures). It is now another crisis, that of Flybe in the United Kingdom, which is forcing the British State to intervene in his aid. Added are the failures of Air Berlin, Thomas Cook, Fly British Midland, Monarch Airlines, Lauda, Aigle Azur - certainly I have forgotten some - and the past ones of Iberia and Sabena, rescued in extremis, or after bankruptcy, by British Airways and Lufthansa. Let us not forget the current crises, such as that of Alitalia, Austrian Airlines and Air France-KLM. Today, however, we have some elements: the Italian State does not intend to make Italy fail, but does not want it to float. The Italian State does not intend to abdicate to the role of system director. I want to strongly believe that the Government will support the current Alitalia summits in all locations, as well as the Government, if necessary, will seek all useful ways to ferry Alitalia towards a better future. However, this will require people with knowledge of the air market. They're gonna need it, yeah. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You will also need negotiating skills and strategic vision (which you have missed). Alitalia within this framework will be able to present itself at all negotiating tables that it will want in a position not of subjection, but with the strength to be able to choose the possible best and most suitable ally to its strategy. This isn't so much about pushing open-mindedly for a potential partner. Instead, it is a question of having the lucidity and rationality necessary to evaluate objective elements and trends in order to understand which alliance will truly agree with our flag company. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We must talk to everyone - this is certain - but taking into account some variables. So, it's okay to talk to Air France, who could be seen as the natural outlet, although - let me tell you - in the past he stole more than a few passengers towards his hub. However, it could be said that Air France, even for past attempts, could be the natural partner. The main challenge, however, paradoxically is not Alitalia's, but Air France's: can he really do that? Lufthansa could be the completion of the market: Alitalia has a long-range market control from Bologna down, Lufthansa from Bologna up. The union of the two would mean giving life to the first true Italian carrier, the first European group, the third in the world, bringing Alitalia into a global market. Integration with Lufthansa would obviously take time: it would be a change of corporate culture, of procedures, of new commercial and operational systems. In this hypothesis it will have to be clear that Alitalia will not have to be reduced, but dimensioned in order to grow and recover those slices of the market lost in the past because of sly members and various inability. With British Airways, it would be a disappearance and it would also be quite difficult, since it is part of a group that has already begun a huge consolidation in the West of Europe. So what vision for Alitalia's future? Alitalia's new positioning, in this consolidation vision, should finally focus on long-range activities by reviewing the links from and to North and South America and Africa, reserving targeted links to Asia (Japan, Korea and China). In this case, it could also reverse a small part of the short-range, but through selective partnership agreements. In so doing, it could reposition the remaining fleet on medium-range routes where bilateral agreements exist (North Africa, Russia, Middle East). There is no doubt that the fleet should be completely rationalised. In the long run, one type of aircraft will have to be aimed at - I agree with Senator Mallegni - because this significantly reduces costs. National ticket rates for passengers should be revised, including through incentives, those that are given to other companies; however, management paid for real results, profits and not revenues. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is certainly an excellent opportunity to integrate with Ferrovie dello Stato, in particular on the ports of Malpensa and Fiumicino, enhancing local, regional and also high speed accessibility on routes such as Fiumicino-Florence, Fiumicino-Naples, Fiumicino-Bologna. However, three other issues remain to be addressed. We always tend to talk about redundancies, about carriages, about the uselessness of Alitalia, so there are the other carriers. Talking about redundancies without an industrial plan is Cabal, forgetting that behind those numbers there are people and families. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] About the wheelchair speech, what can I say? This too is the result of countless articles that speak of a company that loses and does not serve and of fanciful privileges. Thirty years have passed since the last privileges. I assure you that in Alitalia it has changed a lot, but one thing has remained still today, almost inexplicable way, that is the attachment of the workers to their company. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The fantastic privileges: a flight attendant after thirty-five years of radiation, shifts, forced distance from home even in important family moments such as illness and mourning, very high risk of pregnancy not completed, will see a pension of about 900 euros and in maternity receives about 500 euros. These are the privileges. Consider whether these issues really need to be continued. However, it is quite different for high management: those earning money! As for Alitalia's usefulness, think if we wake up tomorrow with all its planes on the ground, where there is monopoly... [[Brusio]] I would just ask you to lower your tone a little, please, because I can't even read the text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u78	Senator Wolf, I remind you that you are already in the second minute of recovery.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u79	LUPE (M5S). I'm sorry, but I can't read. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You can finish your speech. LUPE (M5S). If we all woke up tomorrow morning without Alitalia's planes, many people would remain isolated and also unable to travel where there is monopoly and this is because they do not replace the company in a few hours. Today there is only one thing to do - in my opinion - that is to try to row everyone in favor of Alitalia. I am convinced, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, that we are voting in favour of the decree-law on our examination and I hope that we can work together with the trade unions in a unified way, without requiring separate tables as in the past, and together with all workers. I am sure that Commissioner Leogrande will find a way to cooperate with them. Alitalia must continue to fly, but be high and proud. I call on everyone to vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the Conference of Leaders has approved amendments to the timetable and the new timetable until 5 February. Tomorrow, Thursday 30 January, work will begin at 9.30 a.m. and ratifications of international agreements drawn up by the Foreign Affairs Committee will be discussed. At 12 o'clock, the Minister of Health will make an urgent information on coronavirus. Each Group may intervene for five minutes. On Wednesday 5 February, at 10 a.m., motion 208 on the voyages of memory will be discussed. This will follow the discussion of the Commission's proposal to extend its investigation into feminicide. The Conference of Leaders will meet again at 5 p.m. on Tuesday 4 February to set the timetable for the next days. Amendments to the decree-laws on the credit system of the Mezzogiorno and the establishment of the Ministries of Education and University should be submitted by 7 p.m. on Friday 31 January. I therefore warn my fellow Members that there will be no votes in this House next Tuesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u81	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following integration to the program of the proceedings of the Senate for the months of January and February 2020: - Document XXII, n. 9-a - Extension of the term referred to in Article 1, paragraph 2, of the resolution of 16 October 2018, establishing "the institution of a parliamentary committee of inquiry on feminicide, as well as on all forms of gender violence"
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u82	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups also adopted, in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, additions to the current timetable and the new timetable for work until 5 February: [[Thursday 30 January h. 9.30 a.m. - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Foreign Affairs Commission - Urgent information of the Minister of Health on coronavirus (12 o'clock)]] [[Wednesday 5 February h. 10 - Motion n. 208, Salvini, on the "travels of memory" - Doc. XXII, No 9-a - Extension of the Commission's feminicide (from the drawing up site) (where concluded by the Commission)]] Amendments to draft law No 1672 (Decree-Law No 142, Support for the credit system of the Mezzogiorno) and No 1664 (Decree-Law No 1, Establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research) must be submitted by 7 p.m. on Friday 31 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u84	Senator Romeo, mine was just a communication. There is no debate, even if courtesy is never too much.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u86	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would just like to have a confirmation of a communication from some time ago. We will meet at the Conference of Leaders on Tuesday at 5 p.m. to establish the calendar from 5 February onwards. However, it seemed to me that the fact that on February 6th, at 3 p.m. there was the " Premier Time " was also confirmed. We would just like to confirm this communication, because we should prepare questions by 12 noon on Wednesday.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u87	Senator Romeo, we were both at the group presidents' meeting. So, even if the official announcement will be given on Tuesday, it is confirmed unofficially that there will be the presence of the President of the Council for the question time on Thursday afternoon.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u90	Mr ASTORRE, rapporteur. I would like to thank in a non-formal but substantial way all the Members of the Commission for the serious and serene work they have done, despite the basically blocked text of the measure. Furthermore, I would like to thank the Government, in particular Minister Patuanelli, who promptly came to the Commission when he was summoned and with whom we had a discussion on the subject, and the representative of the Government who followed the work in this House. Last but not least, I would also like to thank the staff of the Commission and the House for their work, as usual, precise and timely. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u91	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 242 Senators voting 241 Majority 71 Favorables 140 Contrars 1 Absent 100 Senate approves. (See Annex B).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u94	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President, my grandfather lived in the shadow of his newspapers, he lived behind the covers of the books: with these words Giorgia Canetti yesterday afternoon, at the cemetery of Oneglia, recalled Grandpa Nedo, who died on Monday at the age of ninety. We remember here the politician, Senator Nedo Canetti. He had just turned 90. His biography is that of a certain Italy, which comes to life after the war: the founding of the Republic, the reconstruction, the rebirth of parties and unions, the workers' and peasant struggles, the desire to know. And this also returns in the words that the grandson said remembering his grandfather. Primary school teacher, leaves the classrooms and also the social status that that profession then guaranteed to dedicate itself to politics and its institutions. Even today the role of teacher is very important, but it is often not considered as it was then. He joined the PCI of Togliatti and his fellow Natta - both from Imperia - and was a municipal and provincial councillor from 1951 to 1972. In 1972 he was elected for the first time senator of the Republic and will be re-elected for two more mandates from 1977 to 1983. He was also National Sport Manager for the Italian Communist Party. He wrote about the Unit, keeping a sports column, but also dealing with parliamentary chronicles. He wrote thousands of articles and "Unity" for him was not only the newspaper on which he wrote, but we could say a life mate. Senator for twelve years, but here at Palazzo Madama Nedo Canetti lived for thirty-seven years; for thirty-seven years, every week, by train from Imperia to Rome, from Rome to Imperia. After his term as senator, he remained here to work for the Group, in the evolutions that took place from the PCI, PDS, DS, to the Democratic Party, until 2009. His work was in the press office and he worked with great passion and attention to all and great humility, the humility of knowledge and depth. He never cut off his ties with the party comrades of Imperia. In fact, he always played with passion and awareness a role as wise, firm, firm, serene and combative manager, always available to listen, dialogue and confrontation. With him disappears an important figure of the left, who has given so much to the politics of his city and who has worked with competence, seriousness and depth, here in the role of senator in the Education Commission, then in the Commission work and in the RAI Supervisory Commission; a life dedicated to public commitment; a life full of passion, coherence and loyalty. His analysis has always been lucid, calm, punctual, transmitted with his quiet wisdom. He leaves his wife Carla and his sons Silvio and Valeria. They're gonna miss him a lot. He'll miss his town. We'll all miss him. It is right to pay tribute to him here in the Senate, where he gave so much and lived so much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u95	The Presidency joins this remembrance, together with the whole House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-185.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 30 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18:01.
