ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u3	Colleagues, as the meeting of the Board for the Rules of Procedure is still in progress, I suspend the sitting until the end of its work. (The sitting was suspended at 10:34 a.m. and resumed at 12:38 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the President. I inform the Assembly of the outcome of the Board for the Rules of Procedure. The Board for the Rules of Procedure rejected the proposal to declare that the term referred to in Article 135- bis, paragraph 3, of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate has an authorising and non-peremptory nature. Without such determination, the Board for the Rules of Procedure has also rejected the proposal to consider that the determinations of the Conference of the Leaders, or of the Assembly, apply only to the Permanent Commissions and not to the bodies of the Senate of a legal nature other than the Commissions, with the exception of the forecast referred to in article 135- bis, paragraph 3, already mentioned. Finally, the Junta has considered - in order to contest the forecast referred to in article 29, paragraph 4, first period of the Regulation, with the interpretation of the Junta itself about the perentoriety of the term provided for in article 135- bis, paragraph 3 - transitionally and by way of derogation from article 135- bis, paragraph 6, of the Regulation, to consider satisfied the period of peremptory just the already fixed convocation of the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities for the day 20 January.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u7	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. At the end of your communications on the decisions taken in the junta on the Rules of Procedure, I want to formalize to this House the seriousness of what happened a few minutes ago. With great responsibility, the representatives of the majority in the Council for the Rules of Procedure decided to approve the questions raised in the Junta by the opposition yesterday, so much so that they were unanimously approved. The consequences of that deliberate decision, which made the terms of the convocation inevitable, would have forced the convening of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity today. We have informed the Committee on the Rules of Procedure that we are prepared to do so. Our problem is not that of the Junta, but that of respect for democratic rules. Then, when some political forces understood that the question was obviously wrong, underestimating its consequences, and that the sitting of the Assembly of the elections and parliamentary immunities scheduled for Monday 20 would be illegitimate, then the opposition forces decided to present an instrument, the agenda, to make a derogation from a rule adopted a few minutes before unanimously in the junta for the Rules of Procedure. The latter approved a correct interpretation, which will make jurisprudence; the oppositions, not satisfied with the unanimous approval of what they had requested, presented an agenda (of which we know the value) and decided to put it to the vote with the applause and availability of President Alberti Casellati. Unfortunately, that's not all. A very serious fact has happened and makes us worry, not as forces of majority or opposition of this Parliament, but as representatives in this Senate of the Republic of the whole national community: from today the President of the Senate, as is certified by his attitudes and above all his will to express himself within the Council for the Rules of Procedure, is no longer super partes. You have decided, for reasons of your own which we do not know, but which we do not consider sufficient, to go down heavily into the political race, becoming a partisan president of the Senate. Mr President, we would like to say formally that the Democratic Party is very concerned about what has happened, about the attitudes that President Alberti Casellati has taken on, and about the fact that from here on, and not in the Council for the Rules of Procedure or in a specific body of the Senate of the Republic, the President of the Senate cannot represent all the senators of the Republic. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u10	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, first of all I would like to stigmatize a personal attack on the President of the Senate, who, during the sitting of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, explained his decision, which is not biased (since, of course, it is always pleasing to all parties if the final decision-maker takes his own side and is sorry if he makes a decision against it). Over the years and the legislatures, it has happened so many times to see the President of the Senate make a decision that we did not appreciate and that we did not share (I speak in general of the Presidents of the Senate), however the President of the Senate represents the Senate and all the senators. In this case this morning the President of the Senate, clearly showing (even if there was no need) his impartiality and third-partyness, proceeded at the moment, within a few hours of the request that had been made yesterday, to the integration of the Council for the Rules of Procedure that saw a situation in which, for the evolution of things, the majority was at the head of us of the opposition, appointing two other members. However, the Rules of Procedure did not oblige you to make such a choice, on which the Junta, in its composition until a few hours ago, had expressed itself in the opposite direction. The Council had expressed itself by a majority, but contrary to this integration, which the President of the Senate considered to be in place; of course we have respected and respected this decision (which I believe should always be respected). In this case, it was the application of a rule that the unanimous interpretation, as President Marcucci also said, defined as peremptory: a peremptory rule, which is known to be such (and we know it at the moment, Mr President, because you announced it a moment ago), intervenes in a situation in which the Junta of the elections, convened even for the date of 19 December, is instead called for 20. I recall that another decision of the Council for the Rules of Procedure, approved this morning, subject this body to the same discipline of the Commissions, therefore Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate applies clearly also to the Council itself: well, this article, paragraph 4, clearly states that, as regards the convocation of the organs, the Commissions must be convened at least twenty-four hours in advance; it is therefore impossible to respect the two things: the advance of the twenty-four hours and the deadline, which, being peremptory, at this point expires tonight at midnight, in the absence of a specific norm. A transitional rule has therefore been introduced by Senator Grassi which explains why this application is proposed, which is normal (in many cases there are transitional rules, even in the Constitution, some of which are in force and are still in operation); There are no strikes, therefore, but decisions which obviously did not please the current government majority - and this is legitimate, of course - but which have been taken in full correctness, in particular by the President of the Senate. Finally, I recall that the date of 20 January had been fixed despite the fact that the whole of the Junta, for the truth, intended to fix it for the 17th, thus respecting the 30-day deadline, even when it was not clear whether it was peremptory or authorising: it had been set on 20 January, however, the date of the vote on the question of the authorization to proceed with Minister Salvini, because two members of the majority of the Junta of the elections - that is, the Senators Grasso and Giarrusso - were engaged in a parliamentary mission in the United States. In order to respect the needs of all, and to vote and to speak on behalf of all, this date was agreed, which, I repeat, had already been established for a month: also thanks to the vote of President Alberti Casellati it was possible not to remove or prevent a body fully prepared to express itself; by virtue of this, it will be possible to proceed in a normal way. On this issue too, a majority will prevail in the Assembly of the elections, the opinion that will be adopted by this body and what will be decided by the Assembly. We are therefore in normality and in full compliance with the rules and a normal fair play between the parties.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u13	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, although I am not present in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I have asked for the floor as Deputy Head of the Movimento 5 Star Group. If things have gone as described in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I would like to add our concern to what President Marcucci has just said about the effective third-party status of the President of the Senate. I would also like to highlight the schizophrenic behaviour of the opposition, which I would like to point out to the House but also to the citizens outside this House: first they asked for the term to be judged peremptory, and the Junta expressed itself by an absolute majority; for this reason, a few minutes later, they requested a derogation from what they had previously requested. This use of the highest institutions of the State is worrying, as it is obviously instrumental for other purposes: we clearly want to underline this and bring it to the attention of the whole House. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u16	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, today is a day full of news and interpretations. I would like to express two sentiments on behalf of my Group, the first of which is solidarity with President Alberti Casellati, who has been the subject of absolutely free and completely inappropriate considerations, which personally do not surprise me because I know the left in all its many facets; but one of them, there is always that of Manichaeism: when something happens according to the desired works, while when it counters it, even if it is perfectly legitimate and consistent with the path, it cries out at the coup d'état. It seems to me to be necessary to observe all this. Therefore, I express great solidarity with President Alberti Casellati, who, in my opinion, has been too generous in granting the enlargement of the Council for the Rules of Procedure, in violation of a well-established practice (even under left-wing majority governments), such as that of the impermeability of the Councils to the movements of the Assembly, and - above all - to his own opinion, which, although called consultative by the Rules of Procedure, has been absolutely clear because six out of ten members have shown opposition to enlargement. Nevertheless, President Alberti Casellati, fully interpreting his role, according to his understanding, which we respect unlike the majority, intended to act, when he could quietly and much more easily rely on the negative opinion of the Junta and decide not to decide. President Alberti Casellati has decided instead and all this was a manifestation of great generosity, which unfortunately - I repeat - I can be misplaced because then, immediately after, the left tried to use the commas of the Rules at will. In truth, the second decision of the Junta, which I consider to be very important, innovates with respect to a practice that, as far as I and the Brothers of Italy are concerned, was to be stopped. I am referring to the practice of extending the term of office of the European Parliamentary Assembly to a great extent, in spite of the thirty-day deadline laid down in the Rules of Procedure, in terms of peremptoryness. We - the opposition - wanted to clarify this passage, asking a very clear question: is this term to be understood as authorising, as is the practice hitherto established? The Committee on the Rules of Procedure was unanimous and the friends of the majority did not intend to clarify that the term was authorising and did not raise the finger or the hand either. This is clearly new in the current procedure. This novelty emerges on the day when the terms breathe (it is no fault of anyone if today they breathe the thirty days provided by the Rules of Procedure). It was quite clear that a dualism of opposing needs had to be resolved: on the one hand, the peremptorism, which has been in force since today, and, on the other hand, the need to convene within 24 hours and to ensure the possible presence of all the Commissioners, since two Commissioners are on mission (and not at sea) and, on the other hand, the timetable of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys, in times not suspicious, had wished to consider the need to ensure the plenum properly. If President Gasparri had decided to convene the Junta on 17 January - date at random - I imagine that even the senators of the majority without hair would have ripped them, considering very serious not to guarantee the number (the colleague would have tirelessly ripped his hair in symbolic terms). It is obvious then that, like all innovations, they need to come into force and this possibility is given for two days, Saturday and Sunday; on Monday, ladies and gentlemen, rest assured that what is to happen will happen, so prepare yourselves and find the solution that you cannot find. Saturday and Sunday is a long time and, between day and night, you will be able to find a way to decide what to vote on Monday, because on that day it will properly enter into force perentoriety, meaning with what even this shredded majority - excuse the term - will have to decide what to do in the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunitys. The minority knows what to do, and they've known for a long time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u19	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, first of all I would like to clarify one issue, by addressing Senator Malan, who knows you perfectly well and Senator Zaffini, who I do not know about. The practice in this Senate has always been to ensure that the Council for the Rules of Procedure was composed in such a way as to reflect, as far as possible, the proportion existing in the Assembly. The presence of paragraph 2 of Rule 18 of the Rules of Procedure is not a coincidence; this paragraph, which gives the President the power to supplement the composition of the Council itself, has always been exercised. So much so that, as Senator Malan knows, not since this morning and not since yesterday, but since the establishment, immediately after the appointment of the Board for the Rules of Procedure, I signed her as President of the Mixed Group and my colleague Unterberger, as Chairman of the Group For the Autonomouss, we have done, as we say by established (consolidated) practice, demand to be able to be integrated because the two Groups were not present. So all the arguments that have been brought about about the change of name, even in previous governments, have nothing to do with it: here there was a fulfillment that had always been respected by practice. I would point out that in the last parliamentary term, in which I was in opposition, President Grasso complied with what was a well-established practice. Instead, I hear about generosity and the fact that this act is proof of it, but it has been about two years, because we did the first letter in June 2018: it is therefore I who ask, doing so repeatedly and even yesterday in this House, explanations of why this did not happen. However, let us overlook this because it is not the testimony of third-partyness, rather we wondered why it did not happen before, but it is still another reasoning. With regard to what happened in the Junta, you have asked a question to give a literal interpretation of the rule which includes precisely thirty days as a peremptory term. The President should not take this seriously, but there was a lack of prudence because when a rule is put to the vote and it is known that even in the case of equality, it would be given for approval, however, we must know what the consequences are, having a concrete and clear fact, since the elements were known: tonight at midnight the thirty-day deadline was due and that there was the convocation of 20 January. The elements were very clear. That is why we have strongly appealed to all of us to ask repeatedly what would have happened if the Junta had pronounced itself on the peremptority of the term. I'm saying this because it can't be secondary. I do not know how you plan to make the laws, but in case there is already the intention to present the transitional rule, usually, if you put an end to it, the transitional rule also presents itself immediately: it is not that before it is said that the term is peremptory and after five minutes we proceed differently. I understand that it is a way of doing this: let's explain to the citizens that when we predict peremptive terms, then, if it concerns the friend of the friend, we find a way to make peremptory attenuated. The transitional rule, which would have been represented on this agenda, should have been - we have repeatedly asked what would have happened and how it should have been done - immediately presented and should not have been accompanied by an agenda - the value of which is what it is - but it should have already been presented in the question itself and in the subject of the resolution. In the face of all this, how can you think that there is no dismay - to say the least - of us present in the Junta and I believe in the Assembly (even if there are few of us)? Certainly there is some confusion, I repeat. When it is necessary to ensure the good performance of the Senate, it must also prevent, knowing and prudently assessing what is put to the vote and its consequences, at a precise request. And that didn't happen. How can we then say that we are questioning third-party rights? We had appreciated that the President had once again declared that she would not take part in the votes, precisely to underline her third-party status. The problem is that third-partyness is not only form, but also substance. But in this case there is not even a problem of appearance, there is a concrete fact. All the more so since we had said: either it is convened by today - and we would have had nothing to object to in view of this kind of interpretation - or our Rules of Procedure tell us exactly how to behave: thirty days have passed unnecessarily, we are going to the Chamber within sixty days; it is very clear. There was no need to innovate, mitigate or make transitional rules. If there had not been paragraph 6 of article 135-a, I could understand; but paragraph 6 is there and is a guarantee. The Rules of Procedure, which we all know well, had given us the perfect solution without arriving - this is serious, Mr President - really doing an operation like this, which undermines the confidence of every single senator. I am now in the majority, but I have been in opposition until a short time; the wheel always spins, remember that the wheel always spins. For this reason, those with apical charges must always remember that they must guarantee - because once there is opposition and once there is majority - total thirdness and impartiality. This is the good conduct of the Senate's work. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u22	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, I have to say that there was not only a coercion on the part of the President in the sitting, but there had been a couple. If we remember, at the Conference of the Leaders we had reached the point that the Council for the Rules of Procedure had to give an opinion on the nature of the Boards, if they were comparable to the Commissions and followed the discipline and if for this reason the decision of the Leader Group to suspend the work next week would also apply to the Juntas. In this way we have finished the last meeting of the Leaders. Today the Junta was convened and we insisted on this opinion that the Capigroup was waiting for, but the opposition and the President - who said he would ask this question - wanted to take a vote to see if the deadline for the Junta for elections was peremptory or authorising. We have asked a couple of times for clarification on this: by voting and resulting in peremptoryness, because the deadline expires today, what happens? I have received the answer that will be seen later. We took the vote; the opposition realized that it had made a goal because it would not be able to convene the Junta for today, and then it was tried to remedy it. When, then, we insisted that our question should also be voted on, the President obtained that he had to specify it, while it had not been done in the first vote, when it had to be said immediately that the term peremptory was not valid for the issue we were talking about. So, in the second vote, the President asked for it to be clarified, motivating with a ne bis in idem - it has nothing to do with it - and he said that, even if the nature of the Juntas is comparable to that of the Commissions, this speech did not apply to the issue we were talking about. Basically, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure has taken two decisions, and for both of them it has been interpreted as an exception. In short, it seems to me that we are really faced with a forced force that is not compatible with the third-party that should have the figure of the President of the Senate. I'm sorry. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u25	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor. In fact, I am speaking because the constant change in the timetable of our work in these days has not allowed the Democratic Party Group to ask, reasonably at the beginning of the sitting, for a time when the Assembly could express solidarity with the Australian people, hit - as we know - for several weeks, by a terrible fire that is devastating thousands of hectares, killing people and animals. Senator Jacob would therefore have spoken on this subject but, as it was not possible, on his and the Democratic Party's behalf, I express my solidarity, and I ask the Presidency to give the text of the speech which - I repeat - Senator Jacob would have done before this House, if it had been possible. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u26	The Presidency authorizes you to do so and supports your words, Senator Ferrari. I think I can speak on behalf of the whole House. I fear that we will have to deal with this at different times and in more appropriate places than today.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u27	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-183.ana.u28	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 28 January, at 4 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.09 p.m.
