ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on Thursday 20 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, at the opening of our work allow me to address my personal mourning and the whole Senate to the family of people who have lost their lives in recent days because of the Coronavirus infection. I would also like to express my solidarity with the community and the families who are suffering from the hardships caused by the measures taken to combat the spread of the virus, measures which directly involve more than fifty thousand people, but which affect almost half the population. To doctors, scientific researchers, hospital staff, civil protection, public security bodies, local administrators and all those who are working with generosity, with a great sense of duty and not without personal sacrifices, I address a strong thought of closeness and gratitude. In these days Italy is facing an emergency situation, an emergency that we have the duty to face by putting in place every effort necessary to protect the health and safety of citizens and to prevent the spread of dangerous psychosis in the country. It is therefore fundamental to draw attention to the commitment, collaboration and sense of responsibility of all: national and Community institutions, local administrators, health care agencies, law enforcement agencies, schools, the business world, information bodies and citizens. Italy is a strong country, a nation that, as history teaches us, has always been able to react with determination to the difficulties, even the most dramatic ones and that has in itself the resources to overcome as soon as possible this phase so critical and so delicate. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u5	The Conference of Leaders, meeting yesterday, established that in the current week the Assembly will discuss the decree-laws on the establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research and on the extension of legislative deadlines. On Thursday 27 February, at 9 a.m., the Minister of Health will make an information on the coronavirus; each Group will be able to intervene for five minutes. The question time, already scheduled for 3 p.m. on Thursday 27th, will not take place. The Conference of Leaders also set the deadline for tabling amendments to the Decree-Law on the reduction of the tax burden on employees at 7 p.m. this evening.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u8	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I know that there was no provision for a debate following your commemoration and your expression of closeness to all those suffering from coronavirus. However, I would like to add, perhaps I did not hear it, among the lines, having also had the opportunity yesterday to meet some officials of the Chinese embassy, our closeness to all the Chinese community present on the territory that sometimes suffers from serious and unnecessary discrimination. I think it is right to express, on behalf of all colleagues, our friendship in the moment of need. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u9	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 24 February 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar: [[Tuesday, February 25 h. 16,30 - Drawing of Law No. 1664 - Decree-Law No. 1, Establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research (decades on March 9) - Drawing of Law No. 1729 - Decree-Law No. 162, Extension of Terms (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on February 29) - Information of the Minister of Health on Coronavirus (Thursday 27, 9:00) Wednesday 26 " h. 9,30 Thursday 27 " h. 9]] Amendments to draft law No 1698 (Decree-Law No 3, Reduction in the tax burden on employees) will have to be tabled by 7 p.m. on Tuesday 25 February. Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1664 (Decree-Law No. 1, Establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 31' FI-BP 1h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 6' PD 50' Mixed 39' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1729 (Decree-Law No 162, Extension of time limits) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 5' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 47' PD 36' Mixed 28' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1664. The rapporteur, Senator Angrisani, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u11	Mr President, the Ministry of Education, University and Research (MIUR) has in the past been the subject of subdivisions and adjustments. Finally, the current reunification in the MIUR was implemented in 2008. With respect to the original text of the Decree-Law, whose purpose is to create two new ministerial structures instead of the current MIUR, the Commission proposes some changes, both formally, in order to make those necessary corrections from the point of view of the correct formulation, and substantively, adding additional provisions on staff and the functioning of the two Ministries. These corrections - referring to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 of the Decree-Law - derive mainly from amendment 1,1000 (text 2) and its sub-amendments. Article 1 establishes two ministries, the Ministry of Education (MI) and the Ministry of University and Research (MUR), thereby abolishing the MIUR and providing for the necessary authorisation of expenditure, of which the Commission proposes an increase. According to the technical report boiled down by the Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) on amendment 1,1000 (text 2), it was evident in the contact person that the resources provided for in the original text of the decree could only be used to reward the heads of the offices of direct collaboration without taking into account the substantial doubling of the number of collaborators. This made it necessary to allocate additional resources. In order to achieve the objective of establishing two Dicasteries, the legislative decree No. 300 of 1999, amending the list of the 13 Ministries, which become 14 following the separation between the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research, is announced. The new Ministries also succeed, as far as jurisdiction is concerned, in all active and passive relationships existing at the date of the transfer of functions and take over the procedural relationships. Article 2 defines the institution, the functional areas and the legal order of the two Ministries, by means of news to Legislative Decree No. 300 of 30 July 1999. Specifically, with regard to the Ministry of Education, Chapter XI (Articles 49, 50 and 51) of the aforementioned legislative decree No 300 is replaced, while with reference to the Ministry of University and Research a new Chapter XI-a is introduced. Article 2, paragraph 1, paragraph Art. 49, assigns to the Ministry of Education the functions and duties of the State with regard to the education and training system referred to in Article 2 of Law No 53 of 28 March 2003 and in Article 13 (1) of Decree-Law No 7 of 31 January 2007 (as amended by amendment 1,1000/text 2). To the same Ministry are transferred, with the related financial, instrumental and staff resources, including waste management, the functions of the Ministry of Education, University and Research, within the limits of the functional areas identified by paragraph Art. 50, except those assigned to other ministries or agencies, and in any case without prejudice to the functions conferred by the current legislation on the regions and local authorities. It is also without prejudice to the autonomy of school institutions. Article 2, paragraph 1, paragraph Art. 50, identifies the functional areas in which the Ministry of Education performs the functions of State. They become 20, instead of the 11 provided for in Article 50 (1) (a) of Legislative Decree No 300 of 1999 in the text prior to Decree-Law No 1 of 9 January 2020, which distinguished the areas referring to non-university education. Many of the functional areas now included in Legislative Decree No. 300, previously not present, follow specific powers of the existing Departments, which are therefore legalized. During the examination in the Commission, there was a need to make some changes to these functional areas which are proposed for consideration by the Assembly, in order to better specify the areas of reference of the Ministry of Education, also recovering functions which the Dicastery currently carries out, but which had not been included by mistake. In article 2, paragraph 1, the new article 51 specifies the organization of the Ministry of Education, which is divided into two departments in relation to the aforementioned functional areas. It is recalled that the organisation of the suppressed MIUR provides for three departments (for the education and training system; for higher training and research; for human, financial and instrumental resources). In view of the changes proposed by the Commission for approval, the number of positions at general management level of the Ministry of Education increased from 24 to 25, including the two heads of departments. Under the new Article 51-c, which provides for the Ministry of University and Research 6 general management positions, including the Secretary-General, instead of the organization in Departments, the total number, adding the units planned for the two new Ministries, of general management positions is 31, while the current organisation of the MIUR provides 28 general management positions. Article 51-a provides for the establishment of the Ministry of University and Research, to which the functions and tasks assigned to the State in the fields of university education, scientific and technological research and high artistic, musical and coreautic training are assigned. News article 51-b lists the functional areas in which the new Ministry of University and Research carries out its functions. Also in this case, some areas already present in Article 50 (1) (b) of Legislative Decree No. 300 of 1999 have been reproduced and legalized competences described in the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers 21 October 2019, n. 140, with reference to the Department for Higher Education and Research. The new functional areas of the MIUR are 22, compared to the 17 provided for in Legislative Decree No. 300 of 1999 in the text before the reform in comment. The Commission's proposals on this point aim in particular to clarify the tasks of guidance, programming and coordination of research, university education and AFAM in the new Minister of University and Research, also stressing the importance of research and artistic culture. Article 2, paragraph 1-a, of which the Commission proposes the introduction with the approval of amendment 2.13 (text 2), increases by ten units the organic allocation of the National Agency for the evaluation of the university system and research (Anvur), with charges charged by the Agency, by sliding existing rankings or by new competitive procedures. In blackberries, Anvur continues to use evaluation experts through annual, renewable assignments under certain conditions, in order to allow the Agency to continue its evaluation activity in compliance with European standards and guidelines for quality assurance at international level. Article 2, paragraph 2, authorizes the expenditure of 655,000 euros per year in 2020 and 693,000 euros from 2021, according to the changes proposed by the Commission with amendment 1,1000 (text 2), linked to the increased staff expenditure for the increase of two positions of general manager, which are added following the division of the two Ministries. Article 3 divides the structures and offices between the two ministries, taking into account, as already mentioned, that three departments are currently operating in the MIUR. In detail, paragraph 1 assigns to the Ministry of University and Research the structures, instrumental and financial resources, including residual management, of the Department for Higher Training and Research, as well as the personnel who, on the date of entry into force of this Decree-Law, serve you in any capacity. The Director-General for University Training, Inclusion and Right to Study, the Directorate-General for Artistic, Musical and Corematic Training and the Directorate-General for the Coordination and Exploitation of Research and its Results, as provided for in the current Regulation of Organization of the Ministry of Education, University and Research, shall be placed under the responsibility of the Minister of University and Research. According to paragraph 2, the Ministry of Education is assigned the structures, instrumental and financial resources, including the management of residues, of the Department for the educational system of education and training as well as of the regional school offices and inspection body, as well as the staff who, on the date of entry into force of the decree-law, serves it in any capacity. According to paragraph 3, the Department for Human, Financial and Instrumental Resources, which currently has a transversal character, is transferred in transit to the Ministry of Education, until the date indicated by the decree referred to in paragraph 4. Until the same date, the Ministry of University and Research continues to avail itself of the same Department for Human, Financial and Instrumental Resources. The Directorates-General of the said Department also continue to carry out, also for the Ministry of University and Research, the tasks relating to the expenses already entrusted to them for the year 2020, as service structures. In this regard, Article 4 (6) states that the Directorate-General for Human, Financial and Contract Resources, which is currently in charge of the aforementioned Department for Human, Financial and Instrumental Resources, shall continue to operate as a service structure for the Ministry of University and Research. With amendment 1,1000 (text 2) the Commission proposes to include paragraphs 3-a and 3-b relating to the organic allocations of the two Dicasteries. Compared to the deleted MIUR, paragraph 3-a increases the organic endowment of three management positions of first belt, three managerial positions of second belt, twelve places of the third functional area, nine of the second functional area and six in the first functional area, whose charges are covered by an increase of the authorization of expenditure referred to in the aforementioned article 2, paragraph 2. The technical report boiled down by the MEF on this aspect specified that these increases are divided two thirds in favour of the Ministry of Education and one third in favour of the Ministry of University and Research. This increase in the organic budget necessarily corresponds to an increase in the recruitment powers referred to in paragraph 3-b. These are already authorized faculties, which would be divided among the Dicasteries by giving 92 percent of the resources to the Ministry of Education and 18 percent to the Minister of University and Research. The procedures for reconnaissance and transfer of structures, non-directive personnel and instrumental and financial resources are identified by successive decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, to be adopted by 30 April 2020, on a proposal from the Minister of Education and the Minister of University and Research, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance and the Minister for Public Administration. On this point, too, the Commission proposes a number of amendments, especially with regard to interrogate procedures, which aim to enable the two new Dicasteries to operate more rapidly. The transfer of the above-mentioned staff shall take place on the basis of a special procedure of questioning, governed by decree of the Minister of Education, in agreement with the Minister of University and Research, in accordance with the following criteria: proportional distribution of vacancies; identification of the organisational areas concerned and allocation of staff to them by a special Joint Committee, on the basis of professional experience and characteristics. For each organizational area, the distribution of staff among the posts available in each Ministry using as a preferred criterion the greater length of service and, at the same age, the minor age; the transfer of staff of office, in case the requests received are not suitable to ensure the proportional distribution of vacant posts. The members of the Joint Committee shall not, for the performance of their duties, be entitled to compensation, allowances, allowances, tokens of attendance or any other utility denominated in any way whatsoever, or to reimbursement of expenses. Compared to the original version of the decree-law, the criteria for staff assignments are changed, which take place in such a way as to share vacancies in proportion to the organic endowment. In addition, account shall be taken of several parameters relating to the professional path of the persons concerned. The transferred non-directive staff shall maintain the fundamental and ancillary economic treatment, limited to items of a fixed and continuous nature, where more favourable, in enjoyment at the Ministry suppressed at the time of the classification, by means of a personal allowance that can be absorbed with subsequent economic improvements in any capacity achieved. Among the proposals of the Commission, there is also the modification of paragraph 5, according to which the staff belonging to other administrations, in position of command, detachment or out of role at the Department referred to in paragraph 3, participates in the procedure of questioning in order to identify the Ministry to which to assign the said position. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u12	Senator Angrisani, I invite you to conclude. He had ten minutes, but it's been 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u13	Angrisani, rapporteur. Mr President, this is a rather long report. The non-scholastic staff of the Ministry of Education, University and Research who serve at the offices of direct collaboration or already in service at the Department referred to in paragraph 3, which is in a position of command, detachment or out of role in other administrations, participates in the interview in order to identify the Ministry of belonging. Paragraph 6 sets the deadline (30 June 2020) by which the regulations governing the organisation of the two Ministries are to be adopted. With amendment 1,1000 text 2, it is proposed to include an additional period to paragraph 6, according to which the Minister of Education and the Minister of University and Research... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Angrisani, I remind you that you also have the power to deliver the written text. Angrisani, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President, the text is very technical, so I would ask you to attach it to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Mallegni.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u14	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the question referred for a preliminary ruling, Mr QP1 asks not to proceed to the examination of the draft law which intends to convert Decree-Law No 1 of 9 January 2020 into law, which provides for urgent provisions for the establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research. In Articles 1 and 2, the Decree-Law lays down provisions for the establishment and operation of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research and, consequently, the abolition of the Ministry of Education, University and Research. Article 3 deals with the division of office structures between the Ministry of University and Research and the Ministry of Education and provides that, by decree of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, the budgetary changes necessary for the adjustment of the State budget to the new structure of the Government are to be made. Finally, Article 4 contains final and transitional provisions pending the adoption by 30 June 2020 of the regulations governing the organisation of the two Ministries, including those of the offices of direct cooperation of the Ministers. While it is true - as is true - that the measure has a legal character, i.e. it redesigns the competences on some sectors and Departments of the old Ministry of Education, University and Research, the transfer of personnel and competences from one Department to another result in new or greater burdens on public finance, as can be seen from Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which contains financial provisions and involves burdens on the State of € 2,491,000 for the year 2020 and € 3,405,000 per year from 2021. However, it should be remembered that the 2008 financial law, in article 1, paragraph 376, together with the limitation of the total number of members of the Government, stipulated the reduction of the number of Dicasteries, from 18 to 12. This discipline was subsequently completed during the last Berlusconi Government with Decree-Law No. 85 of 2008, which contained urgent provisions for the adaptation of government structures; subsequently, with Law No. 172 of 2009, which established the Ministry of Health, the total number of Ministers with portfolios was established in 13. The decree-law under consideration, more than ten years later, repeals that limit, allowing for worrying risks of proliferation of the number of ministries with portfolios, which could be aimed, not so much at more incisive government action, but at adapting, from time to time, the government structure to possible imbalances and/or political dissidis within the coalition itself. There are, therefore, no more ordinamental reasons and mere political and opportunistic reasons. It is also doubtful that within a few months of its establishment, the Government has already issued two decree-laws on the reordering of the Ministries, making clear the abuse of a particularly ugly legislative instrument by those who, several times - and it is right to remember - in the past legislature, had stigmatized the excessive use of emergency measures: it is obvious that I refer to the Movimento 5 Stars. It is worth reminding the government in office, whose supporters have repeatedly condemned in the past the reckless and incorrect use of the instrument of the decree-law, that legislative technique and the normative language are essential elements in order to properly start the process of normative production. The aim of every piece of legislation should be to achieve clear and easily understandable rules on the semantic level, properly formulated from an internal structural point of view, which fit in and coordinate harmoniously with the rest of the legal order. It should also be remembered that on 9 September last year the President of the Count Council, intervening in his reply to the House, had to declare that he would try to limit it. He said that he would commit himself to working methodically so as to effectively relegate the decree of urgency, as the Constitution provides, only to truly extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. President Conte then denied himself. He also continued by saying that Minister D'Incà would have a very heavy job and that they would work together to have a constant dialogue with Parliament and with the Leaders. Let us be clear: these are the words of Count. He said that he would also be available, that they would meet, if necessary, with the Presidents of the Commission, to have as open and fruitful a dialogue as possible. Basically, he reasoned as if Parliament had the weight, it was important and he wanted to give him the role he deserved, which the Constitution had conferred on him. On the contrary, it seems to me that when we move from words to deeds, obviously the sport we prefer is to deny ourselves: this promise, in fact, has been denied by reality, as I have just said. Once again, the legislator has found it inappropriate to include in the title the term "urgent" is sufficient reason to make a decree-law possible. It is not enough to use the word "urgent" in order for a measure to be effective and essentially to be defined as such for Italian citizens. I would like to remind myself and the Assembly that the Constitutional Court has repeatedly described the possibility for the Government to adopt acts by force of law as an exceptional hypothesis, subject to the fulfilment of precise conditions, as a derogation from the attribution of Parliament's legislative function, which constitutes an essential part of the form of government drawn up by the fundamental Charter, by our Constitution. It must be remembered and taken into account that greater caution should be used when issuing emergency measures, which appear to be drawn up only to regulate purely political issues. In this case, it seems clear to me, after the crisis following the resignation of the former Minister of Education, University and Research, that a political problem had arisen in the current parliamentary majority. The scamage of unpacking that Ministry was simply a solution to get out of the quicksand, in which the majority had once again stuck. I therefore ask that, since the conditions are not met, the measure should not be examined, for the clear and obvious inconstitutionality of the measure. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u16	He asked Senator Saponara to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2 (text 2). You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, during the discussion of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 1 of 9 January 2020 laying down urgent provisions for the establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research, the Lega-Salvini Premier Group considered it appropriate to make some considerations and to bring them, as far as possible, to the attention of the Assembly, as they considered of considerable importance, for the purposes of public finance and good governance. The decree-law under consideration, through the abolition of the Ministry of Education, University and Research, realizes the division of offices between the Ministry of University and Research and the Ministry of Education, establishing accordingly that, by decree of the Minister of Economy and Finance, changes in the budget will be made, necessary for the adjustment of the budget of forecast of the State to the new articulation of the Government. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I cannot speak with this confusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u18	You're absolutely right. Please, colleagues, there's too much buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u19	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Added to this is the deadline of 30 June 2020, as the date set for the adoption of the regulations governing the organisation of the two Ministries, including the offices of direct cooperation of the Ministers. In order to rediscover such a division of ministries we must return to 2006 - so let us go back - when the Ministry of Education was an independent entity compared to the Ministry of University and Research. We are talking about the second Prodi Government, with the ministers Fioroni and Mussi, that is, before the interventions of containment of public expenditure, implemented following the international economic situation of 2008, had to opt for a rationalization of the number of ministries with portfolio. Regarding this, with the financial law for 2008, in addition to the limitation of the total number of members of the Government, it was also established the reduction of the number of Dicasteries, bringing it from 18 to 12, which only later, with the law of 13 November 2009 and the institution of the Ministry of Health, then rose to 13. A number of considerations are added to these premises, on which I would ask my fellow senators to pay attention. The first concerns the fact that the economic situation cannot be said to have changed structurally. We do not therefore understand this legislative intervention, which clearly deviates from the line of containment of the expenditures for the government, that for years characterizes our Country [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ,in line with austerity measures. It is not a critical solution tout court on the merits, but a lack of opportunity for the economic period that is still living in our country. In fact, as can be seen from Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which contains financial provisions, the transfer of personnel and competences from one Department to another derive new and higher public finance charges of 2,491,000 euros for the year 2020 and 3,405,000 euros per year from 2021 in the initial version of the Decree-Law, increased however to 6.036,000 euros for the year 2020 and 12,465,000 euros per year from 2021, on the basis of amendment 1,1000 tabled by the rapporteur. The decree-law under consideration, moreover, in article 4, paragraph 10, repealing the previous limit set to 13 Dicasteries, in addition to leaving practically open field to the duplication of the Ministries, renders permeable the organization of the governmental group to logical partitions, to choices not matured according to a precise political address, but rather to try to hold together a majority distributing places of power. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It remains difficult, therefore, to recognize in the measure those objective premises of necessity and urgency that have led to the enactment of this decree-law. On the other hand, it is all too easy to see subjective and contingent assumptions. I would add that the instrument of the urgent decree is being used with excessive ease by a Government which includes among its representatives those who have always opposed the abuse of this legislative instrument. Finally, a further problem in a dynamic of organizational efficiency and good administration is the difficulties associated with the procedures of questioning for the assignment of managerial positions. Considering that it has taken years to unify the structure, as many will take to implement the division again, with consequent disruptions and delays in decision-making. President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there are sufficient reasons why the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group may request that the Senate decide, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of Decree-Law No 1664. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u20	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u23	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, in a very rapid announcement that Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the two questions referred by colleagues from Forza Italia and the League. In particular, we share the reasons expressed and presented with regard to the abuse in the use of the decree of urgency, which betrays a commitment made and reiterated in this House also by President Conte and which, in the last parliamentary term, saw the first party of the majority committed each time to criticizing this appeal. All this already seems to belong to history and the truth is that a provision is put in place exclusively for needs and dynamics within a majority that dissolves. We all remember during Christmas the resignation of Minister Fioramonti, who announced that he would leave the Ministry for lack of answers in the budget law in terms of appropriations for school, university and research. Well, in these matters and for the answers that this world is waiting for, a measure would be necessary that would respond to the precariousness of school and university, that would secure our institutions, where educational activities are carried out and that invests on our best minds and research; certainly not a measure to unpack a Ministry, going back many years, so that two ministers, of one and the other political power of majority, can find an armchair. This is the real need that is supported by this decree-law and we are once again mocking Parliament. Perhaps people think that they are also mocking public opinion and our citizens. Then it is necessary, as we will do in the course of the examination, to say a strong and firm "no" to this decomposition of the majority, which obviously cannot be the metaphor of a world, that of our school, our training and our university, which awaits many other answers and measures, that do not go in the direction of facilitating the life of politics, but instead go in the direction of giving concrete signs of a nation and a homeland that wants to invest in a serious concrete and real way on education. For these reasons, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group, we shall vote in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, asking that the measure not be examined. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u26	GRANATO (M5S). Mr President, the separation of the Ministry of Education from that of university and research is not new in our system and is the result of a precise choice, the one dictated by the need to relaunch the national system of training in all its components: education, university and scientific research, high artistic and musical training. The two ministries, born distinct, were first brought together following legislative decree no. 300 of 1999, implementing the Bassanini reforms, with the amalgamation of functions and tasks for the State in the fields of school and higher education, university education, scientific and technological research. In 2006, then, there was a new "breakup" that, however, had very short life since, as early as 2008, the reunification of the two Dicasteries was planned once again. It is precisely from that year that a fast and inexorable decline in the education sector began, under the Berlusconi Government, supported by the League. In fact, a season of indiscriminate and wretched cuts was launched that crossed the sector, both on the school side and on the university side, reducing the resources available for a total amount that exceeded 10 billion euros. 90,000 lecturers were cancelled for cutting the mountain hours of numerous disciplines, also characterizing the various addresses of the schools. A few days ago we examined in the Assembly the motions of Lega e Forza Italia on the Day of Memory. Short memory, I would say, since it was the cuts of the Gelmini reform - voted by them - that sacrificed, among others, the hours of history, generating monsters as geohistory, discipline derived from the fusion of history with geography that lost its two weekly hours dedicated in the two years of high school. They were exigent cuts, the result of a short-sighted policy of which, unfortunately, still today, we offset the consequences, because since the introduction of the fiscal compact, no government has found in the budget those ten billions for the school, university and research sector withdrawn from Gelmini. For the centre-right, which raises issues of financial inopportunity, every euro spent to improve the quality of public service in the fields of education, universities and research, is obviously badly spent. We take note of that. In fact, from the "unitarian" experience of the Ministry in these twelve years, which satisfies the inevitable difficulties of recovering those resources cut by public policies that saw in the field of education only a means to make cash, it is possible to carry out a short analysis, in order to better understand why the division of the MIUR into two distinct departments has become more appropriate today than ever. The university and research sectors have never benefited from the synergies that, it was said, could have resulted from the unification of law and order. The entrusting of the Dicastery to unified competences to Ministers who understandably did not have direct knowledge of all sectors has played its role in the lack of vision that has characterized the policies of the sector in recent years. In fact, the Ministry has been sent ahead mainly by bureaucrats and technicians, with the predictable result of a clear detachment from the reality lived by the operators of the various sectors. According to the latest available report released by Istat on the levels of learning in Italy, published in 2019, our country is penultimate in Europe for the number of young graduates, in the age range of thirty to thirty-four years. Only Romania recorded a worse figure. According to the Europe 2020 strategy - and I remind you that by 2020 we have arrived - we should have reached 40% of the share of thirty to thirty-four years in possession of a degree: we are growing compared to the last but we stop below 30%, that is more than 10 percentage points less than the minimum threshold. These are data that make people reflect and convey the urgent need for conscious political interventions to guide the technical apparatus. What about school? Also for this sector, always declared strategic by the political world and never financed in an appropriate way, we strongly believe that having a Minister and a Ministry dedicated only to school institutions can only bring benefits, first of all for the implementation of some changes that can help improve the functioning of the system. I am talking about a regular start to the school year, the deburocratization of teaching, the centrality of learning and the effective valorization of the teaching staff. We are talking about a sector, that of the school, in which the numbers speak for themselves: 370,000 classes; almost eight million students, of which 250,000 with disabilities; 41,000 state schools; over 800,000 teachers, of whom 680,000 are assigned to the common places and 140,000 to those of support. Then there are more than 12,500 paritarian schools, attended by nearly 900,000 students. There will undoubtedly be additional resources to be invested in this area, but Ministers' vision policies with a direct knowledge of the issues, each in its own field, will be able to optimise the resources already available with a view to the smooth development and adaptation of these strategic sectors to the challenges of the future. According to the Istat report of 2019, only 62% of the Italian population between 25 and sixty-four years is in possession of a higher secondary degree, which is the main indicator for assessing the level of formal education achieved in a country, against a European average of 78.1 percent. Unfortunately, there are many critical factors in the school sector. Not to mention, then - alas - the territorial differences within our country, increasingly accentuated. The latest studies of the MIUR, covering the year 2019, on school dispersal show a very bleak picture regarding the levels of learning and the percentages of abandonment recorded especially in the Mezzogiorno. The logic of the division of the two Dicasteries, as is clear also because of the trends and data that I recalled, is therefore a measure that, at reasonable expense, invests on the quality of management of all sectors, in order to fully exploit the specificities that characterize the system of national education, both school and university, and scientific research. Both Departments are working hard and fruitfully to reduce organisational time to a minimum and the fact that both Ministers in the fields of competence already have a clear view of the issues to be addressed facilitates the path that each one will have to support. We have had comprehensive answers from the new Ministers to many of the issues on the agenda. Because for us, public education and research, for their strategic role in the country's growth, are a national priority, we consider this necessary and urgent measure, rejecting the preliminary motions presented by the opposition as inconsistent, unfounded and pretentious, even in the light of the bad policies they carried out when they were in the government. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u27	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1) and Senator Saponara and other senators (QP2 (text 2)). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u28	Mr President, the decree-law we are debating today is designed to improve the rationalization of education, university and scientific research functions. In this reorganization, which divides the skills into two major areas, that of school education and that of higher education, university and research, it is also specified, in Article 51- bis, the scope of reference of high artistic, musical and Coreutica training, which is therefore included unequivocally in the university system. (17.28) (Russo followed). High artistic and musical formation to which this decree-law devotes particular attention and which is the subject of my intervention. In fact, although 21 years have passed since Law No 508 of 21 December 1999, which recognizes its membership in the wider genus of university studies, AFAM has not yet seen its alignment with the university system. It is true that, on the one hand, this is already achieved in the system of educational credits and with the equivalence of qualifications obtained with university ones, but it is also true that the system of recruitment of teachers, on the other hand, is still in line with that of secondary education. Nor is there yet an artistic qualification. It is clear, therefore, that we need to intervene for a profound reorganization of the system, both in order to guarantee didactic innovation and in order to promote research, the third mission and internationalization in the spirit of the full implementation of the Bologna process. In the acronym AFAM, I remember, includes not only the academies of fine arts and music conservatories, but also the National Academy of Dance, the National Academy of Dramatic Art, the higher institutes for the artistic industry and also the music institutes drawn in the process of statization: a world of creativity, beauty and excellence, from music to design, from dance to fashion, so today, more than ever, care and resources are required. Academies and conservatives are today a model of reference, first and foremost for historical origins. In the seventeenth century, just remember the conservatives then orphanages of two cities, Naples and Venice, and two masters for all, Scarlatti and Vivaldi who, making of necessity virtue, implemented their function of welcoming the small orphans with that of music school, in order to employ the young workforce at the noble houses and the festivities that abounded in both cities. Secondly, the importance of Italian conservatives and academies is also recognized at international level, so much so that today they represent centres of excellence throughout the world, witnessing the high number of foreign students enrolled. Finally, we know that the world of art and creativity is a source of important economic and social repercussions. After twenty years, the reform process was finally restarted with new vigour in this legislature already by the first Conte Government, intervening on the adoption of the regulation on recruitment, on the implementation of the National Council for High Art and Musical Training (Cnam) and on the start of the process of statization of the former tied institutes and, last but not least, with the convocation, after eleven years from the previous one, of the general states of the AFAM system by the then Undersecretary Fioramonti. On that occasion for the first time they were heard in the debate, not only the apical figures of high formation, but the whole system extended to the professions of culture and entertainment, both horizontal and vertical, involving the entire musical chain. On the same occasion, the fundamental issues for the completion of the reform were identified, now transferred to the new Minister with a possibility of greater impact, given that the specific competences have been placed in charge of a single Ministry, in which will for the first time be prepared a general direction exclusively for the high artistic and musical formation, a leadership that can dedicate itself to the AFAM, not only in the tasks of programming of the interventions of direction and coordination, of general standardization and financing, but also in the tasks of valorization of the merit and the right to study, in those of implementation of Community and international norms, of European harmonization and international integration, also in implementation of the cultural agreements concluded by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am sure that there will be suitable areas such as internationalization, research, quality and evaluation, the planning of the offer, governance, the third mission, recruitment, the overall reorganization of the system, which must also include the identification of mentoring figures alongside those of teaching and, not least, an adequate extension of the staff, in view of the exponential increase in the number of enrolments. This draft law, meanwhile, in the darkest of a future, thanks to an amendment by the rapporteur already adopted in the Commission, addresses and overcomes two emergencies. In the first place, the first implementation of the recruitment regulation is extended from the academic year 2021-2022; secondly, the deadline is extended to acquire the requirements for access to the ranking established by the law of 27 December 2017, n. 205, until the academic year 2020-2021. Moreover, the draft law in question places a milestone in the field of artistic research, a sign of a serious attention of Minister Manfredi towards the world of high artistic and musical formation. I am referring to the approval, again in the Commission, of the amendment I signed, to which the Government gave a favourable opinion, which goes hand in hand with scientific and technological research and artistic research: a sign of great openness for an issue which has long been expected to be answered. In fact, as universities are the primary centers of scientific research, the legislator of Law No 508 of 1999 also considers the institutions AFAM primary centers of high education, specialization and research in the artistic and musical field. This is a necessary, on the contrary, constitutionally necessary statement, where one has in mind the clear letter of Article 33 of the Constitution, which places universities, academies and institutes of high culture on the same level without formulating a hierarchy among them. The development of artistic research and the desired start of AFAM research doctorates will, I am sure, be a flagship of this Minister and this Ministry. It should be noted that in the AFAM institutions there are the prerequisites for carrying out both scientific research activities in the traditional sense (e.g. technical-historical, but also related to technological innovation of the arts), that which the Frascati manual means as research for the arts, but also an artistic research (e.g. creative-performative area), that which in the Frascati manual is understood as research in the arts. Developing artistic research involves not only a reflection within the world of art and culture, but also necessarily leads to a rethinking of the role of art within society in general. The most ambitious challenge taken on by this Ministry, which sees the sector of the AFAM protagonist, is civil and cultural. To the extent that we intend to move from a mentality that reserves a marginal role for art and cultural themes, investing in human and structural capital in such a valuable sector, it means contributing to the achievement of a more articulated civil dimension, within which the arts return to have a central role socially propulsive for the whole community. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u29	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u30	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of having a Ministry dedicated to university and scientific research, despite the fact that my Group has just voted in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in fact, to me personally and to a large part of the academic world, was objectively pleasing. It was a pleasure to imagine that after twenty years there would be within the MIUR a thinking structure capable of rethinking the university. Above all capable of rethinking the three fundamental aspects of the university, that activity of didactics that is not only a transmission of content, but really a gymnasium, a forge in which the best intelligences of the country are formed, in which we give breath to the ability to dream of young people when they are confronted with the perspective of a study that will become work, investment in the development of the country, that will become not only the construction of a personal professional identity, but an authentic service to this country to put it back on the move. Let us not forget that when we talk about giving back wings to the country, we are talking to a generation of intelligent young people, brilliant and creative, able to look at things from a different point of view from what we have looked at so far, for the simple reason that our point of view so far has not worked or has not worked as well as we would have liked. That is why there is a need for a strong investment that values the resources of young people and what better than university to give a strong response, made of need, proposal, reception, as we say, to the best youth of this country? It would have been a truly important dream to give back to university research the thickness of which we touch with our hands today, in particular thinking of biomedical research, the absolute need that exists. These days we are all dreaming that you can find the vaccine against coronavirus. I dare not think of the dialectic of the previous legislature, with the whole tribe of the so-called No vax. I think of new intelligences that look at the biomedical world with a strong look. I am thinking, for example, of the problem with which we confront ourselves every year and to which all too often we try to give a trivial answer; I am referring to the 70,000 students who access the tests of access to the faculty of medicine, eager to give a strong service to the quality of health of this country through innovative and effective research. Think about the way in which these young people could be opened up the paths of the faculties of biology, biotechnology, pharmacology, biomedical engineering, health economy, of the right to health of many people, of the sciences of nutrition. I think of a power of creativity that could come from an authentically assumed research with passion. I am also thinking of the third mission of the university, which we all consider to be a powerful innovation in the culture of our time; the third mission that links the university to civil society and ensures that the university professor is not closed in his sort of academic citadel, but somehow descends to see and face concrete problems. I think, at the same time, of the open doors of this structure, such as that which the third mission consecrates, that make them enter professional universities of great importance in all disciplines (from STEM disciplines, to humanistic and social and legal-economic ones). For a long time, I and - believe me - many others who have spent their lives in universities have dreamed of a university ministry that can truly carry out these structural functions of training, research and development of the society in which we live. The fact, then, that the President of the Conference of the Rectors of Italian Universities (CRUI), the man who by definition knows better the dynamics of all the universities of Italy (from North to South, large and small), was indeed an element of great hope. I say it was because when I read the bill I was impressed by the bureaucratic-administrative smallness that characterizes it. It seems that the only important thing is to divide resources and determine how much the university minister earns, rather than that of education, the head of cabinet or that of the legislative office. It seems that the only important thing is, once again, to have in the foreground the bureaucratic-structural structure and to leave in real shadow what is the very soul of the university and constitutes its passion. In fact, let us not forget that those who choose to go, but above all to stay at university make a morally strong option, of passion. It certainly does not for gain, nor for any other reason of power or prestige; it does because it believes that knowledge is really the leaven that will cause this country to ferment and restore to it the greatness, the one that we all dream every now and then when we talk about the new Renaissance that we need, having the awareness that it is an Italian reality and that this unity of knowledge is built around the right point of balance between the technical-scientific sciences - the famous STEM faculties - and the humanistic faculties. I am referring to that unity of knowledge that is born precisely from the quality of university life as sharing, ability to intertwine the compulsory teachings with the optional ones, ability to go and see and ability to move. Think of what Rome is, the city of universities of all kinds. Rome has five medical faculties. What should be if there really was a university thought that takes back the reasons of value and not exclusively economic and bureaucratic reasons? The real disappointment, for which I voted in favour of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling (where I guarantee you from the outset that I am in favour of a university ministry) is because the bill under consideration is really poor and small. The provision walks with its feet on the ground; as happens in Rome, you must walk with your feet and look on the ground because otherwise you stumble and fall. He lacks the thickness and the long look. I really think we need to rethink the university with a high level of need. We all know that behind the theme of universities (three-year, five-year, mass and elite universities) there are those endless problems that culture demands to be solved so that the whole country takes a step forward. Let us think of all the dialectic of these days and the false information, but also of that famous science of numbers, which should be exact: it is enough instead to read the issues in the newspapers every day, to understand that they are not accurate nor are their interpretation or projection that should derive from this knowledge, so as to make it salvific - let me say - in the sense of a salvation declined at this time as a quality of life and culture. Now I hope that, despite everything, the Minister will be able to give back to the university a new identity - but also have time to do so, think, after all this government frankly problematic for us - so that there is the pleasure of going, studying and staying at the university. Are we gonna say it all? How many students fight for a PhD? Of the lucky ones who win one, not even two percent stay in universities, because there are no opportunities. Do you know how many professors -- you want associates, college students -- have passed the national scientific qualification, and yet there isn't a university that calls them? Instead, we have other professors who do 120-150 hours of didactics, which, however, necessarily, when it is so hard and costly, loses its enamel, its momentum and dedication in the relationship between the teacher and the student. We want a different university... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I suppose the time has run out, Mr President, but don't worry: I stop talking, just asking that in Italy we be really given back that university that was the cradle of the university throughout Europe; it was born in Italy and we would like it to find its greatness again, with its thickness and its dimension of service. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u31	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the last thirty years we have witnessed repeated separations and unifications of these two Ministries: from 1989 to 1999 we have had a double one; then, from 1999 to 2006, we have witnessed a unification by the Berlusconi Government; from 2006 to 2008 the two Ministries have again been divided under the Prodi Government; and then, from 2008 to today, again united by the Berlusconi Government (and all - I think - we remember Minister Gelmini and his notorious reform, which has done so much damage to the Italian education system and university); since then, seven Ministers have followed each other and now finally the university world has the dignity of having its own. As an employee of an Italian university, I think I can talk about the problems that we had with the two unified ministries in our system, if only because of the numerical imbalance of the representation of the staff: we talk about an approximate relationship of ten to one. The university and research sector and the Italian research system, therefore, have always been a little crushed by the coexistence with the Ministry of Education. What else to say? At the hands of the Minister, Mr Gelmini, we have all witnessed a precariousness of the Italian research system: we all have before our eyes how many precarious there are in our universities and in our research bodies; just think of the sensation that a few weeks ago made the great success obtained by our researchers of the Institute Spallanzani, who, first in Italy and in Europe, sequenced the genome of the coronavirus, except then discover that they too were victims of this precariousization. Fortunately, thanks to the interventions of this and, in part, of the previous Government, we are facing a strengthening of the stabilisation of our research staff. Some interventions have been made. In fact, one of Spallanzani's researchers, a few days after her discovery, was finally stabilized [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , as we say today, thanks to a competition procedure that had already taken place. There will be other stabilisations in the immediate future. President Conte had not more than a few weeks ago presented a large recruitment plan that provides for 10,000 stable researchers in our country over the next five years. This is a great success for us. We are constantly talking about brain drain, about our young people leaving abroad, and we are finally taking steps to keep them here and to further enhance our excellent system of Italian university and research. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are all aware that more needs to be done; we are implementing all measures to do more. I therefore once again express my satisfaction at the separation of these two ministries and the fact that the university and the Italian research system once again have the dignity of their own Dicastery. I believe that this is only a further step in the direction of strengthening our excellent university and research system. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u33	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr Undersecretary, I would not like to repeat what Mrs Binetti has said, which I share, and I try to give some thought that you will forgive me if it may not seem relevant to the draft law we are debating today, but which justifies, in my personal opinion, how the University Ministry, finally after eleven years, can again play a central role, as a protagonist, in the definition of the economic, social and sustainable development model of our country, in an international competition that now - it is useless to hide it - highlights some limitations of the phenomenon of globalization. Not least the fact that wealth has been redistributed in a less and less equitable way. You know perfectly well how the phenomenon of the redistribution of unequal wealth has emerged in a bullying way in the United States of America, where research has recently meant that 0.1% of the population owns 90% of the wealth. I say all this because, if the phenomenon of technological innovation, more known as the digital revolution, overlaps the social crisis - which is evident to all of us - you understand that the dimension of the problem becomes so large and complex that it is difficult to govern. As a result, what we once used to define as a model of the triple helix, namely the State and the institutions, businesses and universities that together defined the model of development and social innovation (I remember that it was a piece of the Lisbon strategy signed by the Heads of State and Government in 2000), today is absolutely not enough. This is because two actors entered the economic and social scene overpoweringly: on the one hand, the communities with all their intermediate bodies; on the other hand, the younger generations and the environment. A characteristic feature of the digital revolution and the social contingency that we are all observing is that, unlike the industrial revolution of the last 150 years, the digital revolution is completely different. Such a revolution requires that the individual can no longer do it alone; he can only do it if he approaches his life and in general his bets on the future in a holistic way, that is, integrating himself with the community in which he lives, trying to be very well rooted in it and establishing relationships of collaboration and constant relationships. (17.55) (Following TIRABOCHI). Stiglitz, who was the Nobel Prize winner of the economy in 2001, in his book entitled "Globalization and its Opponents," said a phrase that struck me, that is that today essentially the deep crisis of the economy and politics can see the protagonists of non-profit organizations and among these there is precisely the university, which must be central to the model of definition of development of the future. Universities, however, must absolutely change, they can no longer be those that were in the twentieth century, they must travel much faster, they must be much more flexible and flexible, they must be much more efficient, they must set up their training schemes in a completely different way than in the past. I would say that you could use a motto of the following type: in the university you do not teach, but you learn all together. I am thinking, that is, of the open community in which the generations of professors and students hybridize, which no longer need to be linked by a model of linear transfer of skills and knowledge. That is a model that has certainly responded to some logics that went very well in the twentieth century, which has been very robust, but that today is absolutely no longer good, because this constant hybridization does not allow to hold the model of static formation, firm and linear. Think about everything I said earlier about the digital revolution. In this respect I very much appreciate (although I did not understand it, so it has been reported by the press) the fact that the Minister wants to do a digital university. I hope that the Minister will not make - pass me this English term - an upgrade of all university courses on digital, because in this sense digital would overwhelm us with an incredible speed. It is a revolution that is not really comparable to what I defined from the first to the fourth, which came to the beginning of the 21st century. I therefore hope that the Minister is actually thinking of digital as a real ecosystem and not as a vertical discipline, so a university course or a three-year degree, in short something specific about this new paradigm. Our only certainty is that there are no more points of certainty and security. Thus the university, which can guide the change of society and the economy, must have this uncertainty, this difficulty of solving complex problems, very clearly. Today there is no longer a single answer to a problem, but there are many answers to extremely complex problems and these answers may also prove incorrect. However, from failures that you put into categories - and in this you have to help us the university - you can learn not to make other mistakes in the future. Thinking about the business and business world, it is necessary for the university to work closely and integrated with companies; even I say that in universities it should also be possible to teach the actors of economic development and growth: managers, professionals, officials, those who are in contact with the sudden and sometimes unpredictable evolution of our world, of this new economic cycle. So you understand that if you go in this direction, we have to break the patterns of the past, because they no longer adapt, absolutely, to the current situation. I want to make another remark on the subject: today, in university communities, we must try to favour revolutionary talents, that is those who have genius, innovation, creativity and capacity for innovation, that is, as they say, those who know how to think out of the box, who are not necessarily the most deserving, even if they are selected according to extremely rigorous meritorical criteria. Although I would have liked to say something more, I will conclude with one last remark, which is also a criticism of the government's organisation on the Ministries: I would have combined the powers of the Minister for Technology Innovation and Digitalization with those of the Minister of University and Research. In fact, if the task of this Minister is only to govern technology, in a democratic context, taking care of justice, fairness and greater participation of citizens in economic and social life, it is fine as the task of Minister Pisano. If, however, Minister Pisano, as I have read, wants to launch "Made.it," or an evocative portal of startups, I am deeply opposed. In fact, this activity should have been within the Ministry of Innovation and Research, in order to make it possible finally to facilitate that ecosystem, capable of giving an important boost to venture capital and private equity, which in Italy we know is still very uncertain. Therefore, an important, correct and timely photograph of startups should be within the university, which must work together with businesses. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u35	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u36	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a measure that the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. considers it absolutely important and necessary. We know that in the last thirty years education has unfortunately undergone several moments of division and then unification and, in particular in recent years, has seen the alternation of various ministers, who have been even four in the last five years. It is clear that, for a strategic and priority area such as education, knowledge, knowledge, university and research, there is a need not only to do so soon, but above all to have stability. In my opinion, it is therefore important to focus on a number of issues, which concern the reorganization of education and university, thus dividing the two ministries. There is a need, as my previous colleagues and colleagues have said, to invest, in terms of financial resources and, above all, human resources. Never before do we need to invest in knowledge and knowledge at this time. We talked about this when we examined other measures, but I would like to take up the words of the previous colleagues and the rapporteur, and I would also like to mention some of the facts, which are truly impressive and dramatic. Let us think, for example, of the issue of school dispersal, in the age group between eighteen and twenty-four years old and also in the previous ones: we are talking about 600,000 children, who every year leave school, many of whom even during compulsory school. We also know that we have one of the lowest rates in Europe for the number of graduates. There is a gap too high, as highlighted in recent days by the same Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Bonetti family, in the choice of addresses on scientific subjects between girls and boys. I believe that the new structure of the two ministries is an indispensable condition and that we need to carry out a general reorganization of the functional areas - I am addressing the Government in particular - in a short time because we are already at the end of February and we risk being, as unfortunately every year, late with the new school year. The measure must be approved soon and, above all, implemented. I am thinking of the question of school systems, the legal status of the staff, including the definition of the skills and specialization paths of the entire teaching staff and also of the qualifications of access. We value the restart of the competitions at last. 18.06 (Following SBROLLINI). There is a need to define the organisation of the school network, the training objectives in the different levels of education and an organisation of the education and training services throughout the national territory. Today we unfortunately know that the dramatic scourge of school dispersal adds a dramatic scourge of fragmentation of our society; there is a social crisis and enormous educational poverty in our country because there remain too many differences between the various areas of the country, between rich and poor areas of Italy. There is a need to activate school building and, in particular, to invest in the safety of our school buildings, that is the most important place where our children, after the family, spend most of their time. That is why we need investment and financial and personnel resources. There is a need for continuing training of our teaching staff at all levels, and in fact I am not just referring to the grades of high school and university; I am referring to investing in this sector because we grow and form the personality of our boys and our girls from the very first educational services, which must be uniform - today they are not - throughout the country, starting from the places of childhood, nesting and motherhood, on which we know that there is still much to work, until we arrive at an overall framework for the evaluation of the entire training system, including in higher education and higher technical training. Then there is the theme of the new Ministry of University and Research. Many guidelines have already been given by ministers Azzolina and Manfredi and I believe that this is also the right direction. I am thinking of the further need to promote, but also to activate an Italian training system in the world and, therefore, also here research, experimentation, innovation and qualifications and recognition of our qualifications in Europe. I am therefore talking about policies aimed at education and lifelong learning which are not only relegated to the Italian system, but also to the European system. And there is certainly a need for advice and support for the activities of autonomous school education, but also for operational programmes funded by the European Union. So, there is a need to make a huge leap in quality of our education system and university. With this measure you can start to work and invest concretely on the subject. There is a need to invest in a university system much more complex than in previous decades, and we expect innovation, technology and continuing training of the teaching staff. No less - and I do not want to leave it last, because I consider it an important issue - there is the economic issue that concerns teaching staff, as well as school leaders. This is an issue which we have debated in the relevant Commissions, which we certainly cannot solve with this measure, but there is certainly a clear objective and direction in this direction. I believe that on the subject of knowledge, knowledge, school, education and university we can also try to work together. I think this is a good measure and I have also seen a great deal of cooperation between the majority and the minority these days on many of the amendments that we are going to discuss tomorrow morning. I really hope that the direction taken can be followed correctly and supported by this branch of Parliament. I conclude by saying that, as far as Italy Viva-P.S.I. is concerned, there will be the maximum collaboration to improve some proposals that certainly need to be deepened, because we cannot relegate everything only to a mere economic issue when we talk about investment in knowledge and training of our children. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u37	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u38	Mr President, when my Parent Company asked me to take the floor on this measure, I immediately activated myself and went to document myself to see what had happened and what the arguments had been made in the Commission. I tried to read the text of the bill and tried to document myself to find a topic. I must say, Mr President, that some of the arguments I found today in the climbing on the mirrors made by the opponents to motivate in political terms a measure that I consider to have been explained, with great sincerity, only by my colleague from Italy Viva who immediately preceded me. She said: 'We have invested in human resources'. In fact, even reading the document of the measure, the only motivation we have found is precisely the investment in human resources that are those for the staff of the two Ministers: 1,9 million euros about to increase of costs referable only to the staff endowments, which are in fact the only true motivations that have been placed to guard this measure. This was very well said before me by Mrs Binetti, who tried to argue, as should have been done, at the time when the Ministry of Education, University and Research went to split up into two ministries: education and university and research. You know - it has been said - that the last time the Ministry was split it was under the Prodi Government. It would seem a well-established practice of the left who, when he goes to the government, first tries to increase the seats, the armchairs, because this is the only argument you use in the measure. You didn't even hesitate to argue. I have been in politics for several years and I read resolutions; very often I find arguments to justify simply the need to create extra places. In this case you didn't even try, you didn't even find arguments to spend. I repeat: the only arguments were tempted in the debate in this House but it was a climbing on the mirrors because, in reality, the provision for our examination, in its genesis and dynamics, responds to the banal, simple requirement born from the fact that you did not agree on who was to be the minister in place of Fioramonti. Personally I did not appreciate Minister Fioramonti in so many of his statements, but in the end he gave an example, he proved to be a man of one piece who is on the subject. He stated that having not received the necessary resources he did not agree to stay and play the beautiful figurine. Hats off. Chapeau. This gesture must be commendable, and in any case linked to the state of funding of the Ministry, followed by an attempt to share another Minister. The attempt is shipwrecked, so you preferred to split the Ministry, give two armchairs and two posts, build two staff structures at a significant cost. Think of how much could be done with almost two million euros just for 2020 that will become about three in 2021. That is all this materializes in the document you are bringing to the House today. It should be noted that we are committing the Senate Chamber to an unbuilt text. Everything helps to give the real image of this that is the Government of the duplication, which only agrees by doubling the measures and assignments. It is a government that finds justification and ability to exist only in this logic. I don't know how long you're gonna be able to move on. Obviously we do not wish you a good job because you cannot talk about work. Let's go see what happens in these two ministries. Until now, however, there is no act that comforts us in those that have remained in the category of hopes and expectations, so, as Mr Iannone, who has followed the measure in the Commission, will say better than I in his explanations of vote, we will vote against the bill when we examine it, in the hope that sooner or later we will be able to give a serious look to a subject and to a subject such as university and research - but also school - which, on the contrary, deserves much more energy, other projects and other characters able to give substance to what is, in one word, the future of this country. In fact, in this sector there are the arguments, resources and reasons to really start hoping for a better future for Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u39	Senator Verducci is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u40	Mr President, I would like to dedicate this speech to education, universities and research, to the thousands of doctors, nurses and researchers who, in these hours, without fear of their own safety, are on the front of the health emergency and do so to safeguard all of us. They represent the soul of Italy as it knows how to be and as it should always be. Mr President, this measure establishes two new autonomous ministries, education and university and research. It's not a technical device. It is a strongly political choice and it is also a result that we strongly want, because it is the son of a cultural and political initiative that we have been carrying out for years, together with many social forces: because within the one, great, strategic battle to put knowledge at the centre, the specificity, the peculiarity, of each subject, with all the energies, the resources, the specific weight that each matter deserves, avoiding that the one, in particular the school, can dominate and phagocite the others. These two ministries serve, instead, to give more strength, to have greater social background and to give greater credibility to a social alliance for education, for the right to study, for research, which is not sectoral, but concerns the country system, our future. In the world, the great countries, those that have a leading role, are those that invest massively in formation and research. In the world, the large societies where there are widespread rights and well-being are those that invest large public resources in public education; that make it a great common good, capable of guarding the most advanced technological frontiers and, on that, also attracting private investments, but always holding a public government, strategic, to avoid the capture, distortion, by the market, of oligopolies, of large financial concentrations. This is vital in terms of competitiveness and, therefore, of economic strength, in terms of contrast to inequality and, therefore, of the strength of our democracy, particularly in the time we live in, that of the digital and technological revolution, for which the world of work is continually rewritten, the professions and, therefore, citizenship, opportunities and personal destinies change continuously. New jobs require new skills, patents, innovation and research. And to make the difference, in terms of critical mass, are not few excellences, but the excellence that is widespread. Therefore, an open, inclusive formative system that can attack the pockets of dispersion, both school and university, which are a great problem for our democracy, for our economy and for the strength of our society. The fact that our country is at the top of those economically more developed and, instead, at the bottom of the rankings of investments in formation, from preschool age to the highest academic degrees, is an unsustainable contradiction, which, if we do not face immediately with urgency, will condemn us to decline. But we, this, not only don't want it: We are here to reverse the course, and this provision, this decree-law, serves this, to put the two Ministries in the condition of starting with functionality, with operation. There are many expectations, particularly with regard to the Ministry of University and Research. Here I wish Mr Manfredi every success, who has already shown great competence and, of course, Mr Azzolina. However, I want to remain on the ground of the university, because, in my opinion, there is a great "university question," which concerns not only the professionals, but the future of Italy. It's about the social elevator blocked. Very often, those who see a door closed in their face, is because they have been prevented from going ahead with the study or, after studying, they do not recognize their professionalism and their work ambition. This sense of exclusion fosters a sense of mistrust in democracy. It is a social wall enlarged by a network of the right to study that does not work, because it is too small and, then, it needs to be expanded. We have introduced the no tax area for those in economic difficulties. That instrument must be expanded for all incomes even average, to allow everyone to study and focus on their talent, regardless of what the conditions of departure are. This is why we need a law on the right to study that extends the student welfare, making it homogeneous in all regions, without more penalising the students of the Mezzogiorno. There is also the theme of precariousness, unsustainable in research, especially in the university, which expels most young researchers from the system with enormous damage to the country: waste of energy, investment, human capital. It is an issue that we have put to President Conte just a few days ago in this House and which we are still putting here. A recruitment plan of 10,000 researchers is essential in five years, as we have long been asking and how we began to do, with the first 1,600, with the decree that we will vote tomorrow. At the same time, however, it is essential to delete the rules of the Gelmini law that have caused a huge precariousness, structural, enemy of research, which weighs on the lives of thousands of researchers. This requires a reform of the pre-role, with the introduction of a mechanism that protects the career of researchers, as happens in other European countries, with that mechanism of tenure track that we have introduced for research institutions in the decree school before Christmas. There is our proposal here in the Senate, written together with basic researchers and PhD students, but we ask that there be the direct commitment of the new Minister on this. This is not just about the issue of brain drain. Indeed, we know that it is important for our young people to be able to share research experiences in Europe and around the world. The theme is the short circuit that lies in the fact that they cannot return to our country and that scientists of other nationalities do not find our university and research system attractive, although it is a system that produces a lot with few resources, with few laboratories, often with zero portfolios for research groups, if we exclude the Prin funds (research projects of important national interest) or European projects. For this reason, the National Research Agency, an important intuition that we support, has been welcomed with coldness because, in the absence of certain structural resources for basic research, which must be there by 2020, there is the risk of creating a large empty box. On the other hand, we need a governance that is broad, inclusive, not top-down, that strengthens autonomy, freedom, self-government of research and that makes it a tool to coordinate resources and strategic projects at national and international level. This is also the meaning of today's measure: it is a piece inside a bigger mosaic to build, starting from training, university, research, right to study, a "thinker-Italy" that also moves consciences too often asleep, that claim the emancipation necessary to our country. In conclusion, Mr President, in such a complicated time that we live every child entering a kindergarten, every girl and boy in our schools in the most difficult neighborhoods, our universities and our research laboratories, in the regions where it is more difficult to live, work and have confidence in themselves, each of them is much more than himself and his own history, but it embodies an idea of a country, a collective challenge for our future and embodies the most precious gift for the generations that will come. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sbrollini. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u42	Mr President, the Bassanini Act, which lays down a maximum of twelve ministries with portfolios, dates back to 1999. Since then we have seen of all the colors: Ministries were born and died, multiplied, delegations experienced abnormal peregrinations. One of the perhaps most emblematic cases was that of the Ministry of Tourism, suppressed in 1993 by referendum and then reborn as a proxy to the Undersecretary to the Presidency of the Council; then a Department was formed in its own right, then the Department was repealed and the delegation passed to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, to move again to the Ministry of Agricultural Policies and return to the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities. I mean, like I said, we've literally seen all the colors. If memory does not betray me, however, we had never seen these changes implemented through the instrument of the decree-law, not only because clearly incompatible with the necessity and urgency that Article 77 of the Constitution provides, but also for matters of institutional form. We already live at a time when more than 60% of the laws are not born in the ranks of Parliament, where legislative power has been allocated by the Constitution, but among the ranks of the Government through the abuse of the decree of urgency. This government is more or less 60% and 60%, more than 50% of the decree-laws are passed with a vote of confidence; we are therefore faced with the expropriation of the legislative power by the government towards Parliament. This is now a practice. Above all, however, with regard to a subject such as this, it seems difficult to sustain the instrument of the decree-law which is clearly contrary to the elementary principle of the separation of powers. A President of the Council can clearly indicate - not to name - the name of a new Minister to the Head of State. Given the composition of the Government, it is difficult to accept that a President of the Council should be able to multiply the Ministries. It would, of course, be a task for Parliament if it were to have an institutional common sense. Nevertheless, you have also made an urgent decision on this issue, and on this subject you have also stripped Parliament of its essential functions. All this because the former Minister of Education, University and Research has decided to resign. I do not question why he did so, if it was an instrumental gesture to build a new political identity and take advantage of the difficulties of his movement, the Movimento 5 Stars, to assume a leading role; I believe in the good faith of people and what is said, especially when it is said in an institutional place. The reason why Lorenzo Fioramonti resigned, according to him, was that he had asked for additional resources for university and research, amounting to 2 billion euros, if I remember correctly, that they were not made available by the Ministry of Economics and Finance. Well, nothing has changed since then, the billions weren't there before and there aren't any today. What is being multiplied is not the resources for school, university and research, and God knows how much it would be needed, since we were and are still the taillight in Europe, according to Eurostat data, as regards appropriations for education in the broad sense. But the ministries are multiplying. Why are they multiplying? For political reasons, mostly. I feel like complimenting the Democratic Party that has managed to acquire a new position in the Government: they have acquired a Minister who could not acquire before insofar as the University Ministry did not exist before. They created the University Ministry and occupied it; well, congratulations. Congratulations also to the marketing office of Palazzo Chigi: until this decision was taken, there was talk of the serious and real problem of the few funds to education, university and scientific research, at the time when the new Ministry was established, there was no mention of the shortage of resources, but of the extraordinary initiative of the Government that had even dedicated a Ministry to university and scientific research. The problem is that the new university minister's wallet is as empty as the former Minister of Education, University and Research's wallet. What's the point of this operation then? What's the target? The aim is to create a smokescreen behind which the interests of the parties, of the government, have hidden, has effectively neutralized the problem posed by the resigning Minister and has given the impression of a greater attention to the world of university and research, which obviously does not dwell in anything. So, summing up: you have violated the essential principles of the Constitution of the separation of powers through the instrument you have chosen to introduce this novelty and you have - for reasons of political opportunity - made a kind of three card game that has brought nothing more to those who attend universities, to families who send their children to school and which instead multiplied ministerial positions. You have even done so from the public budget, because - we have all read it - the decree-law that provides for the unbundling of the Ministries is claimed that this should take place without charges for the State. This is not the case: approximately EUR 2.5 million is planned for the current year and EUR 3.4 million for next year and subsequent years, with a total of approximately EUR 12 million for the establishment and financing of Cabinets and offices. Therefore, you have multiplied the seats on the part of the State and the taxpayer without finding the resources that would possibly benefit citizens. Congratulations, I do not see the need or urgency for such an operation. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies senators and members of the government, half a century of university life has allowed me to know lights and shadows of higher education and research, pillars on which to build a solid and harmonious development of the country. Well, many shadows are linked, as well as to the endemic lack of investment, to the inadequate policies inherent in the system and the confused and obnoxious ministerial delegations that in the past have mortified both the school and the research. In fact, over the last thirty years the Ministry of Education, University and Research has had no peace and has undergone divisions and reunions that have prevented the indispensable medium- to long-term programming of the different sectors. The last recapture, in 2008, was narrated for a more efficient and less expensive governance of the Dicasteries: less expensive, perhaps, but more efficient just not. Finally, this government has triggered a paradigm shift that will transform school and research into two basic pillars of the nation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Italian educational systems and scientific research must respond to various critical issues that have stratified over time. The school dropout rate is chilling: 14.5% in 2017, 4 points higher than the European average. This is a problem that affects employment: the unemployed with the average licence are twice as many as the graduates and four times as many graduates. The Italian population in the age group of twenty-four to sixty-four years is only graduated by 19%, against a European average of 32%. Every year, about half a million young people do not complete their university studies and one in two students quit their courses. The university, since 2008, has lost about 10,000 teachers and there is a rate of 1,200 retirements per year. The replacement so far is insufficient. The recruitment of the 1,600 researchers expected shortly is a healthy breath of oxygen, but an extraordinary recruitment plan of at least 2,000 researchers per year is urgently needed for the next five years. The few funding and the tiring and fragmented enlistment have produced structural ageing of researchers. In the Italian university, over 50 over half of teachers are teachers; in the United Kingdom and France there are less than 40%. The search checkers, the most precarious class in this segment, are over 20 percent. In 2017, Italian public spending on university education amounted to 0.3% of GDP, which is the last Italy in Europe, which on average spends more than double (0.7%). In 2017, 1.4% of GDP was invested in R &amp; D; for the EU area the figure was 2%, while for the United States, Germany and Japan it was about 3%, i.e. more than double. Nevertheless, Italian researchers produce on average as French, US and German and even more than Japanese. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We invest half and produce twice as much as the Japanese: incredible, to a certain extent, because this shows the rich, first-class human capital, and a fairly industrious system. From the critical points mentioned, the choice of this Government to separate the Ministries of Education and University and Research is positive and forward-looking. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The decree-law in question stems in fact from the need and urgency to intervene in these areas, in order to rationalise the functions and ensure a full exploitation of their specific characteristics. In doing so, it promotes the strengthening of scientific and technological research, as well as the autonomous development of universities and higher education institutions, in implementation of Articles 9 and 33 of our Constitution. High training and research represent the future of every country that has at heart the fate of the new generations. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Having a Ministry that deals only with this is a strategic choice for Italy, also in order to address the next framework programme 2021-27 Horizon Europe of the European Union, which with a budget of about 100 billion euros is the most ambitious research and innovation programme ever. Instrumentally someone spoke of the distribution of armchairs: those who said this manifest at least little knowledge on the subject of high training and scientific research. The need to have a Dicastery that deals with these issues is of vital importance and denotes the attention of this Government towards the world of research and university, therefore its will to achieve a fruitful, sustainable and lasting development of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This duplication is undoubtedly a crucial choice for the country, which will face rapid socio-economic, technological and industrial transformations, crises linked to climate change, pollution of environmental matrixes and depletion of energy and water resources and even the development of dangerous epidemics such as the one in progress. In order to strengthen research in Italy we must also address the issue of brain drain. These well-prepared graduates, to denote the excellent training of our universities, are forced to go abroad to see their aspirations fulfilled. It is absolutely necessary to invest in young people and put into the new system sap, giving hope to those who have worked so hard to achieve important goals. The right to study, training and research and research must be encouraged: every effort in this respect will have beneficial repercussions for Italy. It is the case to emphasize that the thirty-year-old Francesca Colavita, one of the three researchers among the first in the world to have isolated the coronavirus - as has already been mentioned - was a precarious being hired. Honor to Francesca, who, with a commendable spirit of sacrifice, made a leap to scientific knowledge and gave lustre to Italy. Meanwhile, we wish the new ministers of education, Lucia Azzolina, and of university and research, Gaetano Manfredi, with the hope that they will become protagonists of that change of pace that both Dicasteries need and, with them, the whole of Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u45	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u46	Mr President, I give up my reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u47	Since the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene, I shall refer the continuation of the discussion of the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u48	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-195.ana.u49	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 26 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.45.
