ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:33 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u3	On 13 July 2020, the President of the Chamber delegated by the President of the Court of Auditors sent the following letter: Mr. President, pursuant to the last paragraph of Article 2 of Law No 87 of 11 March 1953, I am honored to inform you that the College provided for in the first paragraph (c) of the same Article, on 12 July 2020, has elected President Angelo Buscema as Judge of the Constitutional Court, replacing President Aldo Carosi, who will cease office for nine years from the appointment on 13 September 2020. F.to Raffaele Dainelli. On behalf of the Senate and the Assembly, we wish the newly elected President Angelo Buscema every success.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1874, already approved by the House of Deputies. I recall that at yesterday's sitting, President Pesco reported on the work of the Commission, the general discussion took place, and the Government put the question of trust in the adoption of the single article of draft law n° 1874, in the text approved by the House of Deputies. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u5	Mr President, another decree-law, another confidence: we do not get out of this mechanism. This time, however, it was even worse than the others, because the decree-Law April so promised by the Premier, as has already been said many times yesterday, in a few days it will be ready and will expire Saturday, July 18. And so, the 266 articles that were present have become a little more, 342, not to mention the additional paragraphs and everything that came out. As has been said, it is an omnibus measure, which has spread everywhere. Unfortunately, however, as much as one tries to fill it with this or that, he has forgotten several categories, which still do not see a minimum solution and a minimum exit from this important state of crisis. The examination of the measure was carried out exclusively in the Chamber of Deputies, where our colleagues have worked well and produced many proposals. It should be remembered that this happens in Parliament: the oppositions present amendments containing real solutions and improvements to the text; but, as always, only 52 amendments by the League were adopted and all the other rejected or withdrawn, because they would not have a future. What struck was the incredible slowness: it seems that the Government Count II never takes into account the variable time, which - I have already said so many times - especially in a moment of great crisis and emergency, becomes crucial. Perhaps it would have been better to prepare a much less complete measure, but faster (or maybe two or three, but quickly), to get where you needed it: families, businesses, health care and many super emergencies. I want to tell you something, because most people do not know it, but I would like it to be known: last Monday the measure was incardinated in the Budget Commission and the general debate began, which continued on Tuesday morning; then the sitting of this House began and on Tuesday evening, at 8 p.m., the Budget Commission was ready for examination of the 1,500 amendments. We first, as League, said that, this time of a representation, we would re-present them all. I begged the President not to print the file, because it would be a total waste. We therefore met in the Commission, where there was the moment of truth. Mr Manca has taken the floor to say: gentlemen, these are the times; let us not hide behind a finger, we can discuss and vote on the amendments, but we all know very well that there will be no possibility of even the slightest change. Yeah, it's a ride, but what do we do? Of course, Mr Pichetto Fratin and I were outraged, because it is a rule that should not be so, that of examining a measure in one branch of Parliament and approving it in the other branch with a dry confidence. We were outraged and did our speeches. I asked all the groups to express themselves on this matter and there started the moment of awareness and contrition, which was also attended by Deputy Minister Misiani. There are those who are in the first legislature and who - like many of us - have already made others: we have all agreed that this way of proceeding is an abomination. After this widespread moment of contrition, we said: let us close it here, let us go without the rapporteur and the debate will only take place in this House. However, although I have relations of esteem and friendship with my colleagues in the Commission, I fear that this will be repeated. It seemed to be in front of a cartoon in which we were all contrite and then, from now on, we start again. Which way do we start? From the decree simplifications, under consideration in the Senate, that so much to the House will be voted immediately with confidence without examination. This is not good, we are really cutting our Parliament to pieces and that is unacceptable. [[Applause]] I thank President Alberti Casellati for the effective synthesis he used to define the invisible. Parliament has become invisible in the Constitution: it is something that cannot be tolerated. If not for us, who represent an institution, who should care about it? Are we waiting for someone else to come and do it or are we gonna take it seriously? I know that part of this House is not so passionate about institutions, but those who are, and will shortly have to do so. I now come to the decree-law to our examination and some of its stages. Decrees and trusts have followed one after the other, with majorities less and less cohesive, but the design of this Government is clear, especially on the part of the Movimento 5 Stars. If there is no respect for people and for the institution, it is not a problem that everything goes to cataphasm, that is to be crushed and disbanded. The important thing is that there is only man in command, a director who decides to represent a reality show, that is something that seems true, but it is a fiction. The man is always polite, elegant, well combed and directed in the shots and interventions by wise shots: only he must stand out through the news and direct, which - I must say - are less and less followed, because they are rather discounted, but must still appear as the man of destiny. On the other hand - we have had proof especially in recent months, but also yesterday - there are the good manzoni's memory, which raffellano with the words obviously the League, but above all Matteo Salvini, in a crescendo so confused and brutal that sometimes it seems like they have the drool to the mouth from the livor. On the one hand, therefore, the moderate and reassuring (fake) and, on the other, the good ones. This is a precise design: one makes the best and the others knocks down. Rather, talk about what Italy will be in the coming months and years. If you insult Salvini so brutally, there is only one reason: you are terrified of going to the election, losing and returning to your lives. [[Applause]] If you think the Italians are with you, what's the problem with going to the election? In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to go ahead and make two minimum notes, in advance, on the simplification decree, since it has not yet been published (we know that there is some problem, we understand it: we do not get out of these things). The first note is once again about time: the horizon, within Title I, is that of 2021, which is neither credible nor thinkable and does not serve, because it is too close. We have to do things that make sense, so that the country can get out of this situation: let's make sure that companies and workers can do and resume an almost normal, so the country goes on and there will be a revival. The second is that it pushes to make the digital signature immediately, but we should do more practical things, like being close to that incredible and often forgotten machine, on which a crazy responsibility rests, namely the Municipalities, which are the ones that work best. We help the mayors to restart the works, the works and the machine [[Applause]] Let's simplify, but seriously, not baroque, as usual. There is a challenge that we can accept, but let's change the head and perspective. There will be no second chances, the time is too bad. I absolutely want to represent the indignation at this further confidence and the way this is happening. The League was asked to cooperate, and then, when there was to enter into the substance of the discussion, each one on the basis of his role, the door was slammed in the face. We do not do this: we need respect, collaboration, love and foresight for this country, which deserves them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u6	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, trust in nature is a demanding feeling. Giving one's trust means entrusting oneself and assuming to be guided by those who prove to be attentive, reliable, loyal and sincere, but above all presupposes a feeling of reciprocity. That is why we will never be able to give you ours: we are not calm and little less sure; we cannot give trust in one way or to those who do not deserve it, preach well and rocket very badly, having disregarded every own principle, betraying on several occasions the promises and words given. Never with the PD, they shouted from the counters and on TV the 5 Stars. "No hypothesis of government with the 5 Stars" stated the president of the PD (just go and see on social media). It's a coup d'état to put trust in it. My colleague Taverna wandered when she was in opposition. Have you forgotten? We don't and we don't even assume the citizens. We cannot trust a government that has never trusted so many citizens, gagging and not allowing the representatives of the people, who are us, to listen to them and voice. This government, with a 5 Star draw and with the endorsement of a party that is said to be democratic, but that lives in trust, breaking the rule of law, will never have from us the confidence that is conquered and gained instead with sincerity and consistency and does not pretend with arrogance and total lack of respect, without allowing reply or proposal. Trust, however, is now the practice, at first or second reading ( tertium non datur), even on the most important measure that will decide on the future of the country, like this decree-law, that the revival has only in the title and arrives in the Senate even without rapporteur, collecting the dismay and indignation even of the President of the Budget Commission, colleague by majority, who has asked for a loud voice that never again repeats. It must be very uncomfortable, frustrating, humiliating and sad, even for the same majority, to see tomi and tomi passing under their eyes. Look at this, this is only what came to us from the House: I do not tell you how many amendments have been tabled, full of proposals, which could not even be opened, and all of them have been put to the vote in a closed box. I don't say how to use idiots (by citing Stalin) or silly servants; I'll say as people not even curious to see what contained those pounds of paper to be sent to the macero, still fresh in print and not even puffed. Today, therefore, we reiterate all our distrust and distrust for those who go on with the blinds, without realizing that, by humiliating Parliament, it humiliates the Italian people. We cannot give you our trust, precisely because of the respect we bring to our people and the responsibility that we feel strong for the mandate that has been given to us. We cannot give you our trust for respect of all the forgotten categories and we are the voice of: abandoned professionals, who have not received funds; mothers, who have had to leave the job to follow their children, made fun of by a useless babysitter bonus in the period of pandemic and contagion, nor can they work in smart working, because they have children to care for; school leaders, on whom you have downloaded all the responsibilities of a school that was the last of your thoughts. Perhaps it would have been better if you hadn't thought of it, if your thinking is to entrust the security of reopening to Commissioner Arcuri, "Mister Masks," who never entered a class, otherwise he would know that the school and social distance are an oxymoron and just divide the benches to ensure an adequate space, as you do when there are tasks in the classroom. Luckily, at least in the Lower House, you've given us a few extra change for the peer schools that you hate so much, since freedom is bothering you. Still, we cannot give you the trust for respect of the unstabilized teachers and the forgotten teachers of religion; of the agricultural world, which you have not even granted vouchers to let the Italians work, for which you do not shed tears (not to mention the forgotten wounds, such as the xylella, the wild boars, the Asian bug and the weather disasters); of the workers, who in a few days will have to pay the taxes, while those who do not work take the money; for respect of the freedom of enterprise and the employers, who have anticipated the integration fund that has not yet arrived to many and have secured their companies and the premises of their activities using, among other things, separators in plexiglass, distributors of plastic disinfectants and disposable portions of food in the canteens, packed with plastic packaging. It is the same plastic for which you have only postponed the odious plastic tax, instead of focusing on structural incentives and targeted environmental taxation, without realizing that, without ecological operators and plants and collecting companies, we would risk the tragedy in the tragedy. We cannot give you the confidence to respect the automotive sector, private tourist and school transport, construction, tourism, fashion, entertainment and events, which are paralyzed, and with them a whole chain of collateral activities; for the respect of all traders, who have had to lower the shutters and to whom you have not even allowed the dry coupon on commercial rents. Out of respect for the craftsmen, who will not be able to afford the tax credit of an ecobonus for energy efficiency, which is still lacking in certainty in its implementation, we will not vote for the government which, by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, blocked the country without having the suffrage of Parliament, which would have arrived in a couple of days. We cannot give you our trust, because you are inadequate and you cannot govern without even having some respect and institutional education: even in the emergency you did not have the humility to share and find the time to listen to those who bring you the demands of the territories. We cannot give you our confidence, because there is no programme: that national reform programme that Europe is waiting for cannot be just a dream book, but it must be a concrete investment plan, nor can it be a mere welfare plan, based on current expenditure, for which debt can never be paid. Get out of the platforms and screens, talk to people in the eyes and perhaps you will understand that, behind the great dignity of the Italian people, terrible daily dramas are hidden. As I said yesterday, and I conclude, on August 18th the layoffs season will open and then the fuse under the barrel of the social explosive will light up. Now perhaps the simplification decree will come: here, simplify people's lives and go home, politely. [[Applause]] Italy wants to get back up: it is a magnificent country and we will fight so that it can start again, giving the people back the freedom that you have taken away from them and that trust that, in here, we will never give you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u8	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u9	Mr President, last week, as is certainly well known, we approved, with almost unanimous vote, a new LEA relating to headache, qualifying it as a social disease. Well, I have to make amends, because I forgot - imperviously - to bring polyformism back into the new pathologies, from which the President of the Council and many of his ministers have been acutely infected, which show it in their daily behavior and, above all, in the almost thousand pages of the bill, converting it between amendments and the basic text. Now, I don't know how many of you had to study 1,000 pages in five days. The Commission overestimates us, because in recent times it is completely useless to consider and read the first versions of the measures adopted by the Commission, before being forced to approve it, often without understanding, which allowed them to be modified, overturned and sometimes changed the meaning, until the last draft. In the case of decree-laws the exasperation of the concept is valid, being often affected by changes in the race, by virtue of mechanisms of decree of urgency, occurred before their conversion, recognizing obvious symptoms of polyformism. Among the countless proposals that we have presented, statistically it happens that there are good ones, but you have officially accepted none, except always and only in part and without admitting it, sometimes twisting its contents, to the point of completely misleading its overall system, not only making them difficult to apply, thus giving a contience of absolutely unqualifiable situation, especially with regard to the issue of analysis and controls. In short, there is nothing innovative when innovation would be so much needed. As a result, at a time when there are resources that could be spent well planning, we are then in a position to record that we are going in the direction absolutely contrary to achieving the objective. For example, we lost the train for the construction of the gigafab in the car batteries: we could at least have promoted the normal facilitation for their regeneration and their recycling. I am going towards the conclusions, Mr President, stressing, as I did in the Commission, that you are saying that not taking the resources of the ESM would be and is unforgivable, but in the national reform plan, where you quantify the need for intervention in 32 billion, it would appear that you have taken for good a reconnaissance of 2018, but that spread them to the whole of 2045 and not already to be spent in two years. Hence the need to make a detailed plan of analysis of the real needs and expected savings with investments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u10	I have to invite her to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u11	CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, thank you. As we are obviously talking about something for which it must be certain that there will be capacity for institutional restitution, without burdening future generations with further debt. We would have expected - and I come to the end, President - to find in the bill in conversion the new rules for the redevelopment of expenditure, in a logic of investments post-Covid-19, that take into account the resources already available, which I remember add to 25 billion euros, including the resources allocated and not used for health building, to which are added the more than 8 billion euros previewed in virtue of the repeated, multiple emergency measures. There is a great deal of concern that we want to give free rein to a rain of billions, to be distributed without controls, as has so far been the case for the resources already allocated, without providing for measures dedicated to an extraordinary recovery plan for the millions of interventions and performances placed during the lockdown. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u12	I really have to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u13	CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm done. Let me give you a couple of examples and finish. All this by systematizing the hourly extension in ordinary work arrangements, enhancing the competence and professional know-how of pensioners and pensioners likely to be voluntarily detained in service for a period, for example, not exceeding twelve months, but by providing real incentive mechanisms, without oversizing of staff that in return to normality would no longer be useful. Hence our opposite position. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Siri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u15	Mr President, thank you. Dear professional, we refer to your request for an emergency loan Covid-19 and to our previous communication on it. We would like to inform you that, at the moment, it is not yet possible to grant funding to you, as the additional appropriation for the coverage of interest by Inarcassa is still under consideration by the vigilant ministries, which will have to issue the null and void to proceed. Not yet aware of the ministerial timetables, it will be our concern, after communication, to provide for the credit of what is due as soon as the necessary authorizations are received. Banca Popolare di Sondrio. Cash-in-the-box. I certainly do not want to be merely an interpreter of the liturgy of complaint at all costs, of criticism at all costs; but we here are the representatives of the citizens and we are their voice in this House. I therefore believe that I, like all of you, are interested in these categories of professionals and workers who, despite everything that we are debating here and which the Government communicates on television, then face the problems. I have seen that undersecretary Misiani is here, I take advantage of his presence and his attention to subject this problem to him, hoping that he can quickly, as soon as possible, resolve this situation. The re-launching decree is a thousand-page provision, where there are some things that can be shared. We could also have voted for it if there had really been a constructive dialectic between majority and opposition, between government and opposition. We made a contribution, but that was not the case. I often hear announcements and talk on bazooka television and speeches, but I tell her that Alessandro di Bergamo, a small craftsman, with a hydraulic craft company, had Covid, he, his wife and the two children, luckily they are healed, but for four months he is still and does not work, he is not making a single estimate and the customers who had to pay him in turn did not pay him. He had a trust in the bank and having four workers he anticipated the fund, using the trust of the bank and asked me what we do. He tells me: what are you doing in Rome? Is there any chance at least of shifting the payment of taxes, since I hear on television that maybe this will happen? What do I say? I'm saying we don't know, let's see, let's hope. We are asking to be able to shift the payment of taxes scheduled for July. So I'm gonna ask you that, too. If there had been in this decree what we requested, that is, the fiscal year and the possibility to derogate from tax payments, we would probably have had a different attitude towards the Government. Examples such as that of Alessandro are many: the bartender who had to anticipate the money to his employees who are in difficulty or the restaurateur who had to give the money to the dishwasher with two children. How else do you do this? He can't live without help, because he can't. He uses what he earns to support his family. He has no savings, he has nothing; if the employer does not give him the money who has to give it to him? In turn, the restaurateur made his debt to the bank. Now after three or four months he has reopened, but the tables are no longer fifteen, but five and he is also struggling. He wonders how he will honor the payment of taxes and why the state doesn't give him a little breath and some oxygen. It would also seem right and appropriate for this to happen, but I understand that there is none of this in this relaunching decree. It was also expected in the re-launch decree, for example, for the break-up-b and the balance and that the maturity of the instalments, instead of slipping to December 10, would slip at the end of the process of breaking up in order to be able to breathe away, so that the instalments that were not paid at the end would be recovered. It wasn't like that. It would have been useful if these payments could be paid in the queue at the last instalment due. Then there is the theme of notification of folders that is suspended until August 31st. In September, taxpayers will see home the payment notice, after a very difficult summer and everything that has happened and that is before everyone's eyes; on 16 September there is a concentration of VAT and INPS payments for artisans and traders, those of the first quarter, considered down payment for employees, regional and municipal additionals, etc. Unfortunately, as you can see, the situation is really complicated. I do not want to be here, as I said, the interpreter of the complaint and that is all, but I try to be constructive and interpreter of the needs of the citizens whom we represent here in this House. Then it was expected that the relaunch decree would also be a first step towards what is an announcement of the cut in bureaucracy and simplification, but there is no simplification here. 41 pages are devoted to the tax credit for sanitization; 55 pages are devoted to the contribution to lost funds; 46 pages to the holiday bonus; 33 pages to the tax credit for non-commercial rentals; 411 pages are used for the tax return. It was expected that the total 586 pages could be thinned at least half - we don't want to ask much - just to give a signal in that direction. There are still 135,000 workers waiting for the integration fund (which for now seems to be still a mirage) and in the meantime the real country, the country that produces, works, records a decline of almost 40% in recruitment compared to July last year. So, the symptoms of the disease are very serious and very serious. I believe that a great opportunity has been missed with this decree-law relaunch, that is the opportunity to implement those structural reforms that serve the country. You will say, Undersecretary Misiani, that for the interventions requested by the opposition you need the money, and you have put 55 billion at your disposal: it's right, but these 55 billion have always been allocated with the usual way, that is bonuses, discounts a little bit here, a little 'beyond, a series of rigagnoli that lose effectiveness at a time when there is a real, deep, difficulty of economic stagnation. In fact, you could also dare more if you had trusted Italians, entrepreneurs, savers. [[Applause.]] And how could that be done? It could also be made available not 55 but 150 billion, and you know how, undersecretary Misiani? Addressing Italian savers, Italian families. We have deposited in this Senate a bill for the establishment of individual savings accounts, which are a useful tool for the collection of finance by the State towards families, with a tax credit of 23 percent, the cancellation of the withholding tax that is paid on the securities. A very useful return would have been obtained, very effective and very attractive for savers who, if with BTP Italia in four days gave the State confidence for 23 billion euros, would have given it provided that we had trusted them. You could have made a good 150 billion issue; we know that Italian savers have 5,000 billion liquidity available; you could have said that you offered that state bond on conditions for their benefit: they would have helped Italy and Italy to them. And with that 150 billion we could have made the famous and important structural reform of the tax, which for us is the flat tax at 15% for all (businesses and families). [[Applause.]] If we could have told entrepreneurs, workers, the entire cycle of Italian (and also foreign) production that Italy would have had a tax rate of 15% since 2021, how do you think it would be now the mood of those who are working and are sacrificing themselves, undersecretary Misiani? It would have been very positive: people would have understood that, in the face of the sacrifices and suffering they are experiencing, at least on the other hand the Government had done something historical so that from the following year finally there would have been a fair and just tax for everyone. [[Applause.]] But this did not happen. Time is always too little to be able to illustrate all our proposals, but they are in the acts of this Senate. We would have liked to make a contribution, which was not accepted. With this decree-law I raise you show that you do not trust Italians, our entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs as well as artisans, traders, VAT matches; therefore, we do not trust you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u16	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u17	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, with great surprise - perhaps a feeling that I should not have felt - yesterday I found out that having put trust in the Senate deprived the entire Senate of the opportunity to intervene with the slightest chance of intervention. Once it was said that an agenda is not denied to anyone. I am talking about the bland forms in which we asked the government to consider the opportunity and with which, however, we sent a small message. With confidence we are not able to send even modest suggestions to the government with a formula of the type: evaluate the opportunity. The extreme form of intervention has also been snatched. It is as if he had stolen from a poor man, who has already been deprived of all the prerogatives of the role, even the last spark of what could define the real operating margins of collaboration. Having said that, I want to stress the three things that I personally cannot vote for in this government. The first concerns the great theme of the school. Every day we hear on television and read in the newspapers speeches related to the school. I do not even want to talk about what is happening with equality school because I hope that there will soon be a motion by which we can, in any case, bring our demands to the government, but I am referring to the whole of public school, which includes equality school and state school, and which today I read is at high risk of a new form of poverty. I'm talking about educational poverty. Minister and Commissioner, how long are they going to believe that the school is in the mask on duty or in that authentic form of discrimination? When they tell us, in fact, that 15 percent of students cannot enter the school, they will first have to tell us the criteria to determine what this 15 percent of students will not enter the school or will be sent to a theater or for which a kind of circus outside the school will open. The criterion of fairness, justice and - above all - the criterion of those who are convinced that the revival of a country begins with the school understood in its educational richness. We are marking a point of no return to educational poverty. A small example is enough to understand why compulsory school is excluded from the Invalsi tests: clearly there are no conditions today to evaluate people who have not received the right and appropriate incentives to be able to give an evaluation of the entire system. It is like saying: we are a little more ignorant and, therefore, much poorer. The second fundamental point is the Istat data of the day before yesterday on the further impoverishment of Italian demographics. There are projections available to anyone. Just think of the famous overturned pyramid that describes the Italian demographic trend in order to imagine that within forty years - and I am optimistic - all 60 years - there are many in this House too - there will be no more and there will be no new born. We will have a poor country culturally and demographically. This is the revival of Italy that one imagines: how can I relaunch birth policies, how can I relaunch policies for education, education and the development of skills and competences? Despite the 5,000 pages of the document, to us it seems frankly shortsighted, devoid of objective-trend and priority. We would have imagined ourselves, not only the index of chapters, but a small premise at the beginning, what in English is called summary, that said: Attention, the main objectives are A, B and C. There aren't any. Everything is on the same level. The last point I want to make, Mr President, is the following. We dream of a Europe of health. We really dream that this great wealth, sensitivity and culture of ours, which has made Europe great, will find in the health objective the strong objective of convergence. You won't find it on the ESM, you won't find it on the recovery fund, but on health you can find its objective convergence. For this reason, we imagined coordinated action among all to identify what public health is today. This means, for us, an investment in rethinking the training of doctors. We all know that the Italian medical faculty is strongly unbalanced in an ospedalocentric sense, but very few, very few, are the credits dedicated to public health. We imagined a real rethink of the figures of doctors of general medicine and there is no such thing. Third and final point: we imagined a concept of health that tended to enhance chronicity, for the same reason as the reversed pyramid of which I said, and, therefore, disability. There's none of this, and we're grieving. We cannot get angry, like some of our colleagues, and launch our invectives. It is not in our character, but we can grieve and see, in this really what the ancients said: bad tempora currunt. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u18	Mr President, this debate is a debate on trust. I wanted to argue, therefore, about why we don't trust each other. Now I do not know what to tell you, because Mr Siri has explained it so well that I will have to come up with something, with great effort. I'll try, though. I would like to recall briefly Mr Siri's point. We, to whom the people (or, at least, a part of it, which the polls claim to be rather substantial) turn, cannot trust this Government, because this Government does not trust its people and does not trust us either. That the government does not trust us, that we are the representatives of the people, is quite evident in the modus operandi. Here is a speech of method, which has been raised by many so, therefore, just an extremely succinct hint. We are going on, in fact, with questions of confidence on measures which are technically unmanageable by this Parliament. Parliamentary regulations do not allow an accurate reading, even in a single Chamber, of a decree that cheerfully sails over 250 articles. And as much as we here in the so-called high House feel adversely affected by the right to give a thorough reading of the text, at the same time, perhaps, at least we in the League should remember here the excellent work that was done by President Borghi in the Chamber of Deputies. He managed, however, to bring to the Chamber the amending work that had been done; an amending work through which, thanks to the commitment of the League, in particular of Mr Garavaglia and Mr Comaroli, the League tried to stem some issues that did not have much to do with the emergency, however we think about it. I'm talking about the usual cannabis theme. As well as trying to deal with matters that were objectively needed, even if they are seen as a potential ideological enemy by the current majority; and in this case I am referring to the issue of peer schools. The point remains, however, that in this branch of Parliament we had five days to deal with the ponderous tome, and in my opinion this way of doing it reflects an undemocratic drift. I've already told you and I'll tell you again. However, there are many things to do, so it is normal for the measures to be extremely complex. Of course, I always thank those who approach me, who, as is known, are a professor even a little'savant (this is known), to the complexity of the real. Being in here is a beautiful thing and you approach the complexity of reality in infinite ways, but it is part of the complexity of reality, for example, also the letter that I have just received: "Dear Senator, hello, I am an artisan worker of Turin of forty-seven years, in Cassa Integrazione from 15 March. To date I have not received anything from the agency prepared for payment, like many other people. Are you aware of the serious situation of some people? Being at this age having to ask for help from relatives and friends, while having a job, but not getting anything for several months is humiliating. I ask only one courtesy: if you can do or say something to whom you have to do it." Whoever's duty is here, and I did. It is clear that the plural of "aneddoto" is not "data" and this, if we want, is an anecdote, it is the life of a desperate and humiliated person, but this is not necessarily the fault of this Executive, it can also be the fault of circumstances. However, in addition to this anecdote, we also have data on the serious delays with which the measures are taking action. Perhaps, then, instead of imagining baroque ways to provide liquidity to the business system, there were some things that could be done and that in my opinion - I always reread the shorthand reports carefully to see if I said what I thought - come from an initial underestimation by the government of what would happen and so it is happening. Sorry, I don't want to quote myself - something inelegant - but in short, we all remember when at the beginning of March I had the opportunity (and I took advantage of it) to suggest to the Government that, given the exceptional circumstances, it would have been appropriate to make an extremely high deficit, an extremely high deviation, and intervene in an extremely incisive way, because this would have allowed to do few decisive things. I said that before the European Commission applied the general escape clause, because in our party's reflection it was absolutely clear that this would happen. Now I do not want to say that we are the good ones, because clearly being a professor, besides being wise, also helps a little to see what will happen; in fact, it is not the first time that the rules are changed in Europe, so you are able to understand when you will go in a certain direction. It could have been understood at the beginning of March, it would have been possible to make a decisive intervention that would probably have saved to disperse through a thousand ineffective rivoli that deviation that will have to finally be what we had asked for, because with less than 100 billion it is not that we manage [[Applause]] Today I am in a calm and bitter mode and not in search of applause, but we must also start looking into our eyes and telling ourselves what we want to do with this country. Immediately this deviation could have been done some incisive maneuvers on the front of the qualities that were not often done for absolutely ideological reasons or, worse still, that were done later because before they could not be done because they had asked the League, so once again for ideological reasons. There are so many examples. In the meantime, I think that the reasoning on the fiscal year should have been made, and it could have been done, if it had been understood that in circumstances such as these one could safely think of a deficit of 10 to 12% - I repeat, in those circumstances - because, as I told you at the time and as I say now, in the absolutely absurd, ridiculous, counterproductive and bankrupt ballet of the European rules of the European semester, if you open the cage you have to take advantage of it, because the year after what counts is if you are going down. So there is an obvious incentive to immediately make a strong deviation. In fact, if you start from 14% - I say a very random figure - and the next year you're at 13.5% and you've got some culturally equipped negotiators - and here I don't know if we still have them in general degradation, maybe yes - that's what you're getting through. But if you do 3 percent and the next year you do 3.5 percent, then you get tired. This is because the marvellous European construction, which seems to many people here and many people make it seem essential and salvific, is simply a recipe for disaster, because it is a heap of procyclical rules, that is, rules that make you feel worse when you are sick. That could have been done, and on the issue of liquidity, action could have been taken in the sense of common sense measures, immediately bringing the compensation limit to one million. We had asked for it in the decree-law care Italy, but the answer of the undersecretary Misiani was: "costa!" (not in the sense of Minister Costa, but in the sense that it has a cost). Then, in June, they re-proposed it to us in the decree-law of April. Meanwhile, entrepreneurs have lived in a climate of uncertainty. The issue of trust in our constituents also concerns another point, which is that of reforms. About this rhetoric of reforms, about being forced by someone else to do something we don't want to do in theory: you Italians have to leave them alone [[Applause]] , you have to let them live. There is no need for reforms now, but there is a need for liquidity. And the measures to give it to him in the end are the ones that we asked for at first. And the approach, in the end, is what we asked for at the beginning. So, please, if we really want to get out of this, let's really start cooperating. Otherwise the opposition will have to make the opposition. I would remind you that you do not have the numbers for the deviation, and at some point we would also like to accept the political cost of having your propaganda to unified networks that will say that we are destructive, and bring - and I conclude here - everything within the hive of a normal democratic dialectic. A government, regardless of the circumstances, proposes policies and then, if you have the numbers to implement them, it implements them; if it doesn't have them, it goes home. [[Applause.]] So either you start now on a different step, you accept the common sense of the League, you give it dignity in the debate and you value it, or you go home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u20	Mr President, another measure and another vote of confidence. But let's take a step back: in mid-March we had the decree-law cure Italy, which unfortunately turned out to be not a cure, but a small remedy, a patch. The Government's request for a vote of confidence on the Italian care measure at that time broke the feeling of national unity that was being experienced in the emergency caused by the Covid, and also interrupted the dialogue, then open, between majority and opposition. Then came the decree-liquidity law, announced - let us remember - at a press conference long before it existed, and with a large, excessive space dedicated to denigrate the oppositions on live television. It was announced a firepower that then turned out to be a lighter, but above all it disappointed, because it had created expectations of immediate liquidity in the current accounts and in the pockets of the Italians. That was not the case and that measure also passed with a vote of confidence. Now the decree I raise (which was to be the decree April - that of Easter - and then was renamed I raise), arrives with extreme delay in mid-July and you are asking us for another vote of confidence. At the same time (it has been published in the Official Journal) the decree simplification and it is easy to predict that more or less in Ferragosto you will ask us for another vote of confidence. This government, every day and with every act, is becoming more and more self-referential and authoritarian and goes on with decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. We have discussed and suffered so many: administrative acts that, with their effects and repercussions, have crossed the administrative field and have proved abusive, except then ask the House to be condoned. So: decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers; vows of confidence; announcements roboating and futuristic, in the sense of futuristic; promises unanswered; General States convened and concluded without a programme (which may come to September); mysterious entities, such as the innumerable task forces; titles of effective measures, a bit of billboarding and cinematic suggestion. Then, however, there are the reality of the nation and the daily life of families, workers and businesses. The Government does not show common sense and perception of reality. It has its own storytelling that tells a country that does not exist, that is in emergency not tomorrow, but yesterday; a nation in which the integration fund does not arrive, the banks do not grant to the enterprises the favorable credits and the INPS system goes in tilt exactly when it was needed; a country in which the entrepreneurs are moved more to close, than to reopen; the professional bonus that there is or is not dignified and the bonus holiday that is not a debit credit, but a advance of the hotelier and a tax credit. I recall that the relaunch decree was born to redeem Italy from the dramatic economic crisis triggered by the pandemic: a crisis of demand and supply by which, according to yesterday's forecasts of the European Commission, Italy comes out worst of all, with a collapse of the projected GDP of less than 11.2 per cent, an estimated recovery of 6.1 per cent for next year - to arrive - and a recession that is almost double the German one. Unfortunately, this is not the only alarm, but there are others. According to Istat, 30% of companies are in danger of closing down. Moreover, according to a survey by the Bank of Italy, household incomes have been cut off; 40% do not pay the mortgage, 34% have difficulties with payments in installments and more than one third of households have sufficient financial resources for less than three months. Three months is exactly that period of time that you have lost to make this decree relaunch in April, but it arrives in July. Families (those who held during the lockdown, provided services to their members and were small subsidiary welfare centers) are the most forgotten, especially if numerous. Your presentism and shortness of breath prevent you from thinking in perspective. In fact, in European negotiations (sorry the parenthesis) I never hear about resources, within the recovery fund, intended to support families and promote the birth. Istat warns us that in Italy we are already beyond the demographic winter, in full demographic emergency. We are destined for extinction if we do not launch a family rescue and birth plan. In short, in the decree I raise there are 55 billion euros badly employed: almost a couple of budget laws, a considerable amount obtained also thanks to our vote on the budgetary deviation. Have we made this new deficit for this kind of omnibus? In addition, 266 articles, thousands of paragraphs, measures that will require 98 ministerial implementing decrees and a long time. It is a measure of heart attack of things that do not serve to relaunch, that is the drama. Tips, brands and final bonuses, drizzles without, as garrison of this, a political vision of design and system and it was practically impossible, especially to the Senate, to table amendments. This decree had to restart the economy of Italy and to be effective it had to do so in these months of April, May and June, now. As requested by the Brothers of Italy, it had to be slim, immediate, to be effective, with zero bureaucracy, it had to contain only measures to revive, according to three precise guidelines of strategy: job protection, support for enterprises and self-employed workers, support for families and people in difficulty. But no, what we have asked - which I do not have time to repeat - from the unblocking of investments to the simplification of procedures in the procurement code, to the confluence of citizenship income in emergency income (Rem), has not been accepted. Our Group has tabled a lot of amendments to the House, unnecessarily proposed to the Senate, also for non-refundable contributions for small and medium-sized enterprises, for families, but nothing of what has been proposed has been accepted. It has always been said that there is no prejudice to the proposals of the oppositions. A tip law has been preferred, with heterogeneous norms and prescriptions and extraneous to relaunching, as well as contradictory. Also all these bonuses (eco, earthquake, babysitter, mobility, holidays) are fine, but the devil hides in the details and first you have to assume the cost and then you can take advantage of the tax credit, so it is almost a mockery and in fact there is no automatic facilitation or injection of liquidity: basically no relaunch for the economic and productive system, but I would say more than just a launch into the void. I leave out the part of our proposals, because the citizens know them, but I mean in this House - Senator Bagnai has used calm tones, I apologize if my parents are a little less, but I am suffering because I receive so many cries of suffering - that words make sense and have a history. Trust, a term that comes from Latin, means having faith, trusting in someone or something, means trusting, also means trusting. In this House, you will be able to tear away trust, but with an increasingly narrow majority, a majority which is in this House, but which does not represent the majority of the country, outside this building, outside the palaces of an impaled policy. There is only one way in which you can ask for an act of trust and it is the elections, it is the seats, it is asking the citizens for an act of trust. You will not do this, you fear this, you postpone it. Then make sure that you tear here, with your nails and teeth, the confidence, knowing well, in your consciences, that you do not have the popular consent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u22	Mr President, I would like to begin this speech on the government's confidence in the relaunch decree by engaging in some of the speeches I have heard from colleagues from the opposition, because the impression, listening to them, is that the Government, on this side of the House, has people who are incompetent, inconclusive, unable to listen, unable to synthesize what they are listening to in measures. Therefore, I would like to ask the opposition, who are so wide of criticism, whether there is a model, a recipe, a proposal that is successful in Europe or in the world compared to a crisis that has epochal dimensions, never seen since the post-war period. I don't think there are any of these answers and you don't have them either. At this moment, the positive thing that should be done, including by the opposition, is to make a real positive contribution and effective cooperation. The impression at times, however, is that they put themselves on the table of proposals in order to be said no and then to be able to shout in this way on the other side. I hope that, with the next measures, we can really reach a dialogue and a comparison that is more productive. For this to happen, however, it is also necessary - I have listened to the words of President Casellati, but I think it will be important for the presidencies of the Chambers to make their voices heard better on this point - for the relationship between Parliament and the Government to be built in such a way that Parliament can fully carry out its function and therefore the two Chambers can fully discuss the measures of the Government, making the necessary changes, adjustments and enrichments, those which can be carried out and which are allowed by the path and the process that the Constitution draws, but which unfortunately, for a long time now and not only in this legislature, is no longer possible. There would be a debate here which does not have to do with trust in the decree-law relaunch, but which will have to be opened sooner or later, and which concerns the need for institutional, constitutional and parliamentary reforms. It would be time for the political forces to agree to adopt at least a few regulatory changes. We cannot always complain, even from the opposition, that we cannot intervene, when ten thousand amendments are tabled and this clearly makes any kind of dialogue impossible. I hope that there will be common sense, a sense of responsibility, courage and a capacity to deal with the problems that need to be addressed. On the other hand, as regards the most important measures, which also encourage the Italian Group Viva to renew its confidence in this Government on this measure and on the action of the Executive in general, I would like to mention some passages that we consider important and on which our Group in the Chamber of Deputies, where it was possible to intervene with the amendments, contributed. The labour measures provide for the extension of social shock absorbers and allowances for certain categories of workers and the increase of specific measures in support of parenthood. It seems that nothing has been done, but here there are numbers and resources; somewhere 55 billion will have been put, right? There are also provisions to allow INAIL to allocate 200 million from the sale of real estate to a call for competition for the financing of investment projects by companies. There is a network contract with a solidarity clause, which allows for the conclusion of contracts for 2020 to facilitate the maintenance of the employment levels of companies in sectors affected by the crisis. In the area of taxation there is the definitive abolition of the so-called safeguard clauses, so at least in the next budget law we will no longer be discussing and arguing about finding resources in order to sterilize these so problematic measures. As far as aid to businesses is concerned, there is an IRAP cut; you know how much Italy Viva loved the issue of taxation and tax reduction, and even with this measure we managed to achieve a result. There is support for innovative start-ups: if we think about the future we can not fail to give support and support to those who work on innovation and with this measure we can support and help better those who invest in innovation. We find the promotion of benefit societies; we need, with the next measures, to give better support to the third sector, which has complained that some demands have not been heard at all. I would therefore like to address the Undersecretary of Misiani: well the intervention on the benefit companies, which has been accepted, but the third sector asks for other measures and to see accepted the requests that have been made. We find important resources for the overall strengthening of the National Health Service in its various territorial and hospital areas, both from the organisational point of view and with regard to the recruitment of staff. Minister Hope reminded us a few days ago that more resources have been allocated to the health sector over the last five years. It is true that this is required by the emergency we are experiencing, but this must also prompt us to ask ourselves about a method of health management that clearly needs some adjustment. Wanting to bring the truth back to the reading of the path taken in recent years, it is not true that there have been cuts in health care, as we hear. Just look at the public accounts to see that in Italy the expenditure has increased. The problem was created by the management of resources by the Regions, in particular those that then experienced, like Lombardy, more critical because even in the most minute things, such as the management of stocks, were made resounding errors, such that at the time of need there were no masks, protective devices and anything else. We must therefore seek the truth of the facts and not easily use false arguments such as those which, in fact, claim that there have been cuts. Today, however, we need more resources and we are implementing them consistently. It is then given a first significant support to the municipalities that takes into account the lower revenues recorded. On this, Undersecretary, it is important for the next steps to be taken to play the part that is lacking. The mayors and administrations complain that they are not able to reach the budgetary adjustment that should be moved, to be honest, in order to avoid major cuts because they do not have sufficient resources to cover the shortfalls. So this first important investment of 3.6 billion in favour of the municipalities is fine, but we still listen to the voice that rises from those who are at the forefront like mayors and local administrators and with the next measures we give positive feedback to their demands. The decree also contains much more substantial support for equal schools. Another significant intervention on state and equality public schools has been announced and this is certainly desirable. Allow me, then, to take a very short ride on bicycle mobility. I often hear ridiculous words from the opposition about issues related to scooters and sustainable mobility. I repeat this once again: the money placed with the decree I raise on the bonus for scooters, pedal bikes and other means for electric micromobility have not been taken away from the integration cases or other contributions. Green auction money was used, money that could only be used for initiatives such as these or, alternatively, on local public transport. Now, since you also know that local public transport at this stage cannot be enhanced for obvious reasons related to social distancing, what were we to do? Leave that money to rot because it couldn't be used for local public transport? No, it was decided to use them for sustainable mobility. Sustainable mobility is supported by concrete actions, not by words. Yesterday the data of FIAB, the Italian Federation for the environment and the bicycle came out: 134 municipalities were awarded for the investments made; but 134 out of almost 8,000 Italian municipalities are still too few, which means that we have to do more, so perhaps the investment made on the means of sustainable mobility is still too scarce to make Italy a country that really has attention to sustainable mobility. There are other measures that we have supported, but on the subject of sustainable mobility we must listen once again to the mayors who are asking us to amend some of the rules of the road code. It was not possible to do so with the decree I raise. It will have to be done with one of the next measures, even urgently. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to remind you that the decree-law before us certainly contains many positive measures and various positive measures. By clinging to what I said at the beginning, I remember that no one has the magic recipe to be able to raise a country, European or world, from the crisis we are experiencing. However, a number of procedures need to be adapted to lengthen the time when the measures that the Government has decided and which Parliament has improved are being made available to families, businesses and citizens. We strengthen how much good has been put into this measure and we will help our country to get out of the crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u23	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, we are today discussing trust in an important decree-law, which has a full economic escort behind it. We are talking about 55 billion that we are distributing on different sectors of our country. Let's move on from economy, tourism, health, social problems. The measure touched on all these issues, but yesterday listening to the general discussion and then the reports of Prime Minister Conte, it seemed that the oppositions knew nothing of it, it seemed all the opposite of what is written in it. Maybe they didn't read it properly. Maybe they missed pieces. There are important measures that will touch the lives of all people. The bonuses have been listed and it has been said that they do not arrive here, they do not arrive there; I remember that behind every delay that has been mentioned before, we should also check the reason why the integration fund or the bonus did not arrive. I have personally followed cases in which there have not been a cashier or a bonus and, by chance, I alone, but I have looked at so many positions, I have always discovered that there were errors of interpretation behind: the funds had arrived, but they had not been distributed, the companies had not gone the right way. It is therefore preferable to always blame the usual known, the government, the INPS, without ever going to see specifically and, casually, I have found many mistakes: funds allocated, transferred. I see the Undersecretary and I also asked him about the bilateral funds for crafts. They were already customsed about two weeks ago, but those employees still don't have them. That's where we need to go and see where the problems are. That's where we all have to check together that the right course has actually been taken. Sure, you do it first and say it's the government's fault that doesn't do anything. This has become the leitmotiv, the mantra, also because you always have the possibility - and I appeal above all to the oppositions - to criticize in an exasperated way what we have not managed to do. I would like to say - as my colleague said before - that it is difficult to have the magic wand at this time to be able to do things well. We've touched on a lot of sectors. It has also been said that nothing has come to anyone. I remember that 400,000 bonuses were activated in a week for the holidays. Go check it out and check it out, too. With regard to the non-refundable funds for companies, more than 4 billion were paid in response to so many questions. This means that these things have been done and that we have worked to achieve them. Let's also forget something else; we had a considerable amount of work, with reference also to the INPS, with the people who worked from home and despite everything, they put their souls to bring home results. I say this because it's really easy to criticize. I believe that the opportunity we have at the moment, both from the opposition and the majority, is to give our citizens confidence. Of course, if we continue to complain all the time and say that nothing is okay, it is obvious the effect on those who do not know the meanders of the administration. Also with regard to the Regions, there are Regions that have activated everything there was to activate and Regions instead of have not done so. This is also a major problem, after which it is always the Government's fault. We must also give specific guidance to our citizens on how procedures are implemented, with funds that are of all kinds, but which must eventually reach the citizens. I would have liked to add a lot of important things, but I would particularly like to mention the issue of health, which is essential. If we are in this economic crisis, this is obviously due to a health problem. In that area, we have allocated substantial funds to get close to the citizens, with the famous territorial health, but of course we have to decline it well. In the decree I raise there are many indications that must be declined and on this we really must exercise pedissequo control over what is written. We have foreseen 9,600 nurses, we have included telemedicine: these are measures that will now be applied and we will all have to verify their actual application. Colleagues, on the I raise decree, which was really a fundamental step of our country (on this I too associate myself with those who claim that perhaps next time it would be important to leave some issues also to the discussion in the Senate and not only to the Chamber), we can only give confidence to the Government so that it can bring us all together, out of this storm, as Minister Hope said the other day. The emergency is underway, we still have the virus, but we must keep it under control, so that the economic front is also protected. As I always say, we all have to make it together, but without too much controversy and sterile complaints and ends in themselves, just to get consensus. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u25	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, I would be pleased if the opposition were merely to make sterile controversies, because that would mean that there is little to say. In fact, the question of the question of confidence in this measure is serious. This was in fact the best measure Parliament should have taken, by tabling, where necessary, amendments and agendas. The House was given a thorough examination, but - we know very well - it was only the examination of the Commission, because then trust was placed; in the Senate even the measure arrived at the examination of the Assembly without rapporteur. Of the EUR 55 billion we cannot put the stamp of trust, because - we know that, but if anyone listens to us it is good that he knows - it means that preparing amendments or agendas is useless, because the vote of confidence sweeps them away. Is this a quick way for the government to take the measures home? In my opinion, it is a way in which you may want to avoid traps; but in this way, in my opinion, it also harms the country, since the debate on these issues is necessary. Some of the colleagues I listened to asked what proposals we had, what we had in mind. We have, frankly, tried to say this in many ways, but I repeat it in a synthetic way. The question is about the lack of general vision. We can already start photographing the country on the basis of requests made for non-refundable aid. We see very well that the regions of the North-East, in part also mine, Umbria, are among those who have submitted the greatest requests for support at a loss. It means that the engine of Italy, which as we know is the North and the North-East, is in serious fatigue. We therefore believe that action must be taken. We have seen that the sectors most affected are - as the International Monetary Fund said this morning - small and medium-sized enterprises and services: trade, housing, manufacturing, construction, professionals, travel. We are clearly talking about a huge risk of failure, which concerns not so much essential services and products, but rather what is for us the small and medium-sized enterprise. We proposed the idea of a sovereign fund, on which an amendment was adopted, namely a way of using Italian savings to support small and medium-sized enterprises. But on this, in my opinion, if the government had made a careful reflection, linking it, for example, to the revision of the code of the business crisis, which is very important at this stage for the small and medium-sized entrepreneur, it would not have done a penny of damage and we could have reasoned with you if there had not always been the problem of trust. There is another matter that concerns small owners. I have already said this in the Commission, together with my colleague Mr Dal Mas, and I must repeat it here too: there are measures which affect property in an abnormal, incomprehensible and unfair way. Our country is made of many small owners that go on thanks to their rentals. We have frozen evictions, even if they weren't due to the Covid emergency, until December 31st. This raises an income for families: this must be understood. We are not talking about rich people, but about people who may have inherited properties they rent, who had started a eviction procedure before the lockdown and who now find themselves with the tenant inside who does not pay (and that's fine), but without the possibility of hunting him and putting that property back to income. What does the owner do? Are you asking for emergency income or citizenship? This is an irrational measure, which does not take into account that this pandemic crisis, in our opinion, has probably accelerated the crisis of everything in a small and medium-sized economic area around the world. It must then be understood whether, how and in what way the small and medium-sized entrepreneur must be supported and with what types of prospects, because everything that is small and medium-sized is overwhelmed. I repeat: it is enough to read the declarations of general analysis made this morning by the International Monetary Fund, which are also related to what we see in our country, in particular - as I said - in the North-East. But it is obvious that we in this House have not had time to look into it. My colleague said that we in the opposition probably did not read the relaunch decree. It is not true, but there are so many speeches that talking about it in a debate - as we have done - virtually nothing (this is the second time I have spoken and I cannot cover all the issues) is a problem. It means we can't even swap visions. It is not possible to put trust in measures of this nature, because we risk making a bad copy-paste of European policies, in order perhaps to accommodate prospects. We need to reason. Putting trust means not so much wanting to prevent the contribution of the opposition, on which there has been so much controversy, but preventing us from reasoning at a time when the representatives of the country need and need to reason, because we all receive solicitations, we all try to understand what time we are and all of us try to give us a perspective. That we are allowed, then, at least the opportunity to reason in the seats of the Parliament, by giving up confidence in measures of this kind, I believe it is a duty not so much to us, but to the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u27	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u28	Mr President, I have heard from many of my colleagues in the majority, both in yesterday's sitting and today's sitting, the reproach that the minority is only able to criticize and that at such a delicate and difficult time for the country the opposition should cooperate in a much more constructive way. All right, we're talking about the relaunch decree, so the 55 billion. I would remind everyone - to make it very clear - that on 30 April, when we voted on the 55 billion budget deviation in Resolution 101, the majority was in this House with 158 people present, which was not enough to guarantee the budgetary deviation. [[Applause.]] So, without the votes of the Mixed Group, which did not vote for the government, and the whole center-right, you would not be here today to talk about the decree-law relaunch. This is the responsibility, and it is written in the Report where the attached tables are: go and check, if you say it is not true. Read, study, look at the documents and maybe someone should start to thank you for the work we're doing here. [[Applause.]] We have been criticized for making proposals just to make them fail because they are too expensive, so the opposition can say that you did not accept them. Great. At a time when the self-employed are in great difficulty, 500,000 have lost their jobs and of these 190,000 are young - regarding the motions on youth employment presented by the PD, which we will discuss next week - to be able to bring the flat tax from 65,000 euros to 100,000, which we had done with the 5 Stars when we were together with the Government, was it really impossible and so expensive to do or to go in the direction of tax reduction was an act of respect for the self-employed that could really be put on the field? How much of 55 billion would we have spent? A billion, 1.5 at most? I don't know; undersecretary Misiani could tell us something about it. An intervention that could be done but that did not want to be done, which is something else. Our Honorable Gusmeroli to the Chamber has explained to you - which moreover we had done also in 2019 - that they could be postponed from 30 june to 30 september 10 billion IRPEF and IRES accountants and balances, that they would have given breath naturally to the world of the enterprises. The cost of the operation for the state coffers would have been almost zero: about 1.5 million euros. We quantified it in 2019, a minimum cost, precisely for reasons of finance because the financial effect related to the figurative cost of the debt of the State was only 1,5 million euros. Think: 10 billion advances that can be moved by a few months giving breath to businesses at a state cost of 1.5 million euros, and the answer was no. Was it an amendment that we tabled for it to be rejected? No. It is an amendment that you did not want to approve because you are full of political ideology. [[Applause]] , which is of no use for the help of our citizens, so much so that today you have pressures from the whole business world that are going in this direction. A measure that could absolutely be put on the field. Again, we are talking about vouchers, especially with regard to categories especially in the world of tourism - one of the sectors most affected - rather than agriculture, after the failure of regularization that has seen very few people go to work in the fields. Well, the introduction of vouchers, what actual budgetary costs would have meant for the state to argue that we do not have the money to approve them? [[Applause.]] Vouchers ask you categories because they can't find the staff, about people who lose their jobs and who might find them. It is an instrument of flexibility at this time; you did not want to do so because here too there is the ideology that distinguishes you: not budgetary reasons, there is no political will. [[Applause.]] This is the collaboration we ask for as opposition, which should be on your part. It is not over, because we have also asked for the release of blocked public works, but not for new appropriations to be used. The Chamber's study service has pointed out that there are 200 billion budgeted by the State, which are not spent on works because these are blocked for reasons of course bureaucratic, of authorizations or not; on the Grunda there is only one authorization. We asked to unlock them, and what was the result? Amendment rejected, that's not good. No. Our grandparents in the post-war period would have done everything to unlock public works; they would have put them on the field immediately to help the country grow and, instead, here we are still with the cross vetoes: this work is not done; this one is not even; there is the committee of the no. This is also a major political and strategic error. This is an issue that we must highlight because there are not only negative things in the relaunch decree, but also positive interventions - we recognise this - such as the cut in the IRAP, the contribution to lost money, the money for the integration fund, but the role of the opposition and the minority is to highlight some mistakes that the majority have made by not accepting the proposals that the minority has put in place. This is our duty. ( [[Applause).]] When we asked not to make the transition with the unions to the Integration Fund with an amendment, this did not involve charges in accountant jargon. It is simply a will that you did not have and with the passage of the unions we have lengthened the times of the Cassa Integrazione. Then there is someone who says that the time is long because the rules and the times of the Integration Fund we made them. Let us come to the measures that you have approved because you have now arrived and you are rightly better at it. We read what needs to be done to take the holiday bonus: you have to get the Public Digital Identity System (SPID) - which is a valid digital identity code for public administration - then you have to download the relative app, login and ask for the bonus. When the positive result is communicated, the request must be confirmed; then we must wait for the generation of a QR code, which must be communicated to the hotel at the time of payment, provided that it accepts it. The hotelier, in turn, will have to put in place other procedures: before applying the discount, he must access the reserved area of the Agency's website with his credentials and verify in real time the amount of the remaining bonus. Bravo, congratulations! If that's what's new, that's fine. ( [[Applause]] ). These are the sburocratization and simplification. That's why Confesercenti said that the holiday bonus will only use 21 percent, compared to a population survey. Keep in mind that with these queues and logins you have excluded the entire elderly population, the one naturally more fragile and that has more difficulty in accessing the technologies. It's a really good job. Do we want to talk about the stop to limit cash? Did this cost too? No. The ECB - your beloved Europe because I quote the European institution - wrote to you in a letter to take into account how the possibility of paying in cash remains particularly important for certain social groups, for example, the elderly. Cash, again according to the ECB, is a widely accepted and rapid form of payment, the only one that does not legally allow charges to be imposed for its use and that does not require a technical infrastructure. On this too, moving the limitation to cash could be a help and support. In some countries that use very little cash, especially those in the North, families have become more indebted because when you use cash you have the real size of the money you spend; when you continue to pay with your credit card, you notice later, when you go to see what you paid and risk debt. This is another reason to get into debt and another situation that would be absolutely unnecessary at the moment. ( [[Applause).]] Shall we talk about the liquidity decree? We have proposed exempting banks from criminal liability, but we have been told no because checks are needed. Do you know what the result of the lack of liquidity of companies is? In this way, if the state does not intervene, criminal organizations are encouraged. That's what the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor's Office says. It will be them who will lend the money and will be usurers to the enterprises because the state fails to arrive. ( [[Applause]] ). And then we hear here that we must fight and fight the mafias and criminal organizations. In short, all these measures put in place the fact that the opposition has highlighted absolutely important aspects, which could be welcomed and could give that important shock from the economic point of view, since Istat told us that one in three companies, for Covid, risks closing. And if they shut down businesses, the state will have no revenue and, without revenue, you will not even be able to defend your citizenship income and your emergency income. [[Applause]] Without the taxes that companies pay, you won't even be able to get the money to pay public employees. So, in a much smarter and smarter way, if I were you, I'd help businesses. If the economy goes well, secure your measures, too, which you care so much about. You're also unsmart from this point of view. To close, I tell undersecretary Misiani what no one has said. Compared to all that has been said about the budgetary manoeuvre, the intervention on the reduction of the tax wedge and much more, Istat said that, in the first quarter of 2020, despite many tax deadlines being postponed due to Covid, the tax pressure increased by 0.5%. Nobody talks about it, because, of course, all the media - almost all of them - clearly act as a laudator towards the Government. The situation, however, is so and it cannot be said that it is going well. Then put aside your resentment. I understand, I understand. Moreover - and I am addressing above all the Movimento 5 Stars - the League has taken half of the votes away from you and, basically, forced you to put yourself in the arms of the Democratic Party. I understand the anger, I understand it, but we cannot talk about collaboration between majority and opposition if we do not put aside the resentment that the Movimento 5 Stars has towards above all the League. I understand, I understand, that's what politics is like. Put it aside, though, and maybe we can all work together for the good of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u29	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is present - and I would like to thank Mr Misiani in this regard - and I would like to start from where Mr Romeo finished, to reassure him that we have no kind of resentment against the League. [[Applause]] In fact, I note the resentment in his words when he says that we should have appointed Commissioners. The commissioners were carried out, as a legislative proposal, by the Movimento 5 Stars and the League in the decree unblocks yards. The list of works to be commissary was ready and it is the League that has not allowed us to carry it forward. [[Applause]] : important works for the country and, instead, the League has fixed itself on the prince work to quarrel with the Movimento 5 Stars. Then, after Papeete, we saw what happened here last August. For us the important works are those useful to Italians. We need to talk about cost-benefit analyses and not statements. The list of works to be commissary, like other important for the country, infrastructure, are the subject of the future decree simplification. And simplification is another important issue that my colleague, Mr Romeo, will be discussing in a moment. He spoke of the liquidity decree, but that is the past: we are moving towards the future. The decree relaunch is fundamental, because it is refinanceing and strengthening the decree care Italy. He has found cover for public guarantees, for the liquidity decree; he is intervening in support of enterprise, workers, students, health care, law enforcement. [[Applause]] It's a lot of money we're putting into the business world. We know that you start from there, but you can't contest the emergency income for those who can't eat. And then just find strange things in the decree under review. It's about the times. Excuse me, but we must give confidence now, being the timing so narrow: I remind you that in sixty days the decree must be converted. On the work done in the Commission: are we kidding? You're telling us it's a long paper measure. But it could also be twice as much: the important thing is what is contained in it. No, you're not. [[Applause]] We must go, instead, to touch the heart of the problem. I have not heard from the oppositions that the measure, at last, cancels the VAT safeguard clauses. [[Applause]] Who wanted those clauses? Who, in 2011, activated those clauses in the Berlusconi-c. Government? The person who activated them is on my left in the House. For the Italians it is a bloodshed of 5 billion euros activated in 2011 thanks also to the League. Those clauses will finally end with the measure under consideration, thanks to which Italians must know that they will save as much as 47 billion euros of safeguard clauses between 2021 and 2022. [[Applause]] This is a firm point: from here we do not move. In particular, of the various measures contained in the decree-law I raise, I would like to focus on one that makes us understand well that the provision is not welfare, but exactly the opposite: proactive, of relaunching, with a vision for the country. I am referring to the measure of the superbonus: in an ecobonus and sysmabonus measure. [[Applause]] Let's explain it well for those who have not yet understood it: we recognize to those who do energy efficiency work, with improvement of at least two energy classes, and to those who do structural works of anti-seismic improvement (so reduction of seismic risk) an incentive pairs to 110 percent of the cost of the works. This seems to be a secondary aspect, but it is fundamental, because we are concerned about the reliability of the tax credit and its immediate entry into circulation. [[Applause]] This means that we give lavish liquidity to companies and everyone knows it now. The same banks are making press communications with which they declare themselves willing to support any kind of cost and, therefore, will buy those credits, both from the owner of the house or from the condominiums, as well as from the construction companies or from the suppliers or from the free professionals. This is an epochal measure that everyone looks forward to, especially in Europe: the associations of artisans, businesses and real estate owners have been in favour, who are also asking their executives to do the same. Superbonus is fundamental because it allows us to pursue development in the country using - as it were - the environment, but protecting it; and we protect it through a real miracle: we do not charge a euro to Italian citizens. [[Applause]] That's the news. We had the courage to do so, thanks also to the President of the 10th Mr Girotto, who has worked so hard for this measure, and Mr Fraccaro, who has taken it forward. It is a measure of the Movimento 5 Stars and is fundamental, because it allows us to look at one of our polar stars: the environment. [[Applause]] This is how we defend the environment, and this is how we intervene in the field of the environment, and not with chatter. And we do it in two ways: firstly, with energy efficiency through the improvement of two energy classes and, therefore, you will have a saving on the bill. The citizen who joins the superbonus will have a saving on the bill, which means that less energy is consumed in the home and, therefore, we will consume less fossil primary source and, as a result, we will have a greater protection of the environment. Secondly, the public and private heritage is defended from the seismic vulnerability, therefore of the building, of the building: the safety of the town, the safety of the lives of the citizens. Do you know how much we spend every year in Italy for damages due to earthquakes? The average is 3.5 billion per year in the last twenty years. That's what we're talking about. It is money with which you go to directly affect, because the citizen who wants to build and carry out seismic improvement interventions will be able to do it at no cost, because he finds an enterprise or an investor or a bank [[Applause]] That credit is yieldable a large number of times. These are facts! In addition to protecting the environment, the superbonus achieves other goals. We have complained about companies so far; is there a more proactive relaunching measure than this, whereby the zero-cost company can anticipate the work to the owner and sell it to the bank? More help than that? [[Applause]] Talk about small businesses. Well, in the work, especially the private one, the small enterprise can safely subcontract from a larger entrepreneur; it can find its lender and its financial intermediary; it can go to its bank; it can ask the client to go to its bank. There are 10,000 ways to carry on this work, but you prefer to criticize rather than appreciate something good that has finally been done. No, they can't tell. And then we'll see when he leaves and I repeat that it's news of these days that banks are giving their willingness to buy credit. Finally, the most important aspect of the superbonus, which for the first time returns to the centre of the parliamentary debate, is social justice: up to now, who has been allowed to do energy efficiency work or seismic improvement? Who has the money. Today, however, we also give the possibility to those who do not have the money to be able to do these jobs, to pay less the bill and above all to have a safer home. [[Applause]] I shall return briefly to the very difficult work which saw the passage to the Chamber of Deputies. I want to remind you of some important points that have affected just on the superbonus. The first point is the recognition of the superbonus to demolition and reconstruction work. Many times, in order to improve seismically a building, it is not necessary to intervene on the building built, but it is better to knock it down and rebuild it. And this will be done thanks to the expertise of the Italian engineers and architects, who will decide what will be best done: whether to demolish and rebuild or intervene on the built. Take care that breaking down and rebuilding means normatively adapting that building to the anti-seismic legislation: safer buildings [[Applause),]] a house that will be worth more for the citizen who, if he has done energy efficiency work, will pay - I repeat once again - less bills and maybe cancel them. The second important point is the recognition of the tax credit and the immediate entry into circulation of work. We will no longer have to wait for the work to end, but the company and the professionals will be able to sell that credit immediately. The third point concerns a request from Italian citizens: the recognition of the superbonus also at the second house and continuous structural monitoring for anti-seismic purposes. Those who put sensors in their homes will be able to pay them with the 110 percent superbonus, and those data will be useful to our assessment centers to better know the earthquakes, in a country like Italy [[Applause]] where seismic vulnerability has no equal to the world except in Japan. We have to say that. With the measure under consideration we begin to leave the extraordinary a little behind and finally think about ordinaryity. It's about time, because intervening in terms of earthquakes in this country means starting to conceive the ordinary. In essence, the decree-law relaunches, the decree-law cures Italy, the decree-law liquidity, the next decree-law simplifications and all the other measures that our Executive considers necessary in order to give relaunch to the Country after the bad crisis that we are going through, first health and then economic, well come and have our confidence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u31	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u34	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Covid has sent the Stability Pact to the attic and from neoliberalism we are returning to Keynesian theories about economic interventionism. Salvation is seen in the increased spending capacity to feed demand for goods and services. Since in a crisis situation private individuals tend to save money and companies do not invest, only the state remains, which thus returns to have a decisive role; and it is even more so if we think that the collapse of the economy has already resulted in a worsening of material living conditions. As recalled by Banca d'Italia and Istat, one third of Italian households have financial reserves for three months; one third of small and medium-sized enterprises are at risk of bankruptcy; 40% of households that have contracted a debt are able to honour the mortgage payments; in the hotel and restaurant, more than half of the companies are facing a situation of extreme criticality. This measure is part of the framework of measures to buffer the emergency begun with the decree-law care Italy and with the decree-law liquidity. Therefore, it is natural that it contains some welfare measures: if the crisis is not addressed as a social issue, it risks widening the gap and will first of all affect large families, women and young people. At the same time, the measure contains measures to encourage consumption and investment. It is right to encourage purchases that go in the direction of the green economy, such as the super bonus for ecological renovations and photovoltaic systems. This is one of those shock measures that can boost the economy: it not only promotes construction, but also increases the value of real estate and helps the emergence of the submerged. The bonus bikes and scooters and the one for the demolition of old cars are also good to turn towards ecological conversion, which is very important for the European budget and restart. Convince the idea of a state that calls for sustainable environmental consumption and discourages those that are not. The remodulation of VAT that has been mentioned in recent days should also serve these objectives. The holiday bonus is also a fair measure for families and in supporting the entire tourism chain. However, it is necessary to ensure that the State repays in real time the structures granting the discount, in order to prevent them from becoming cashiers with further difficulties from the point of view of liquidity. We would have expected something more in favour of the freelancers, because the extension of the deadline to 20 July for tax compliance is very little for those who have serious liquidity problems. The list of measures contained in the measure is too long to be commented on. And, since I heard many times yesterday that other countries have done better and list the measures that have been taken, especially in Germany, I would like to add another. In Germany and Austria, in the emerging phase, the opposition supported the Government, so that the measures were decided quickly and unanimously. [[Applause]] Senator Salvini said yesterday that we must not invent anything new, but just copy. Then I say: well, let's start with this, copying how the opposition behaves in other countries. [[Applause]] I think, at this historic moment, constructive opposition would be a great asset to the country. Among the planned interventions there are some with very positive repercussions on our territories. Of particular effectiveness is - for example - the extension of the natural gas network in the most disadvantaged areas from the climate point of view. The measure also provides that tax deductions for construction operations in mountain areas will also extend to operations connected to efficient district heating systems. In conclusion, let's put today the plug that guarantees an orderly exit from the lockdown phase. With the simplification decree and the Europe agreement, the second phase of the economic and social question must begin, the one for which Italy puts in place a strong programming, able to free the energies for a restart that is not only numerical, but also qualitative. Let us not forget that economic recovery always requires the confidence of the main players (i.e. businesses and private consumers); a confidence that this measure tries to feed. I therefore announce the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomous Communities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u37	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, before entering into the substance of this measure, I think it is right of everyone - and also of my Group - to thank President Alberti Casellati - unfortunately I do not see her today - who in recent days has wished to bring to the attention of the most uneasiness present in these classrooms, uttering the famous phrase for which we have now become the invisible ones of the Constitution. Thank you because you are defending the prerogatives of this Parliament and do you know why I say this to you, Mr President? We want to strongly denounce what this government is doing, which has only given three days, from the moment it was incardinated into the Budget Commission to the present day, to approve and convert into law a decree of 55 billion, which had no precedent in our republican history we are about to vote for confidence. It is clear to everyone, therefore, how this Government and its majority have as their basic strategy to work so that one of the two Chambers can somehow work on the measure thus reducing to an appendix, to a mere formality the perfect bicameralism provided for in our Constitution. Even today, therefore, we are voting for a measure with a vote of confidence, but it is a confidence that is betraying not only these Houses of Parliament, but also the Italian people. You see, Mr President, today, by adopting this measure, we are authorising expenditure of EUR 80 billion: all together - as some Members have said before me - we have authorised this budgetary deviation and we were convinced that, in doing so, we could decide together the resources to be allocated. Clearly, however, the majority and this Government, as always, have decided to do everything themselves. And, therefore, we can only say, without the possibility of being denied, that we have made a mistake and we cannot trust this Government and its majority. We could have obstructed it, as the Rules of Procedure allow us to do. We could - as they say in the jargon - have overturned the tables of the Commissions and instead we sat patiently, because it was our duty to try to change the provision. And that is why I want to thank our colleagues of Brothers of Italy of the House and our President Giorgia Meloni, who led in that parliamentary forum the crucial battles that we fought to free this decree-law - you do not like the word, President, that I am about to pronounce - from the marchettes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u38	Look, Senator, it's not that I don't like it, but it's not really allowed to use that kind of language. It is useless for you to insist and, above all, when you defend Parliament's prerogatives, also to defend dignity in this House, please. [[Applause]] Mr Calandrini (FdI). But in fact I said that I take note that you do not like it and I did not say this word. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The issue is not that I don't like it. At this moment, the presidency of the Senate is inviting you to respect the dignity of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u39	In fact, we are talking about unnecessary measures that you are about to approve, with reference to what Brothers of Italy did, approving a series of amendments, in the other branch of Parliament, including the one that provides for the increase of 100% and therefore the doubling of disability pensions to civil invalids. However, we also discussed other measures that we did not share, because they had nothing to do with this decree, such as the assignments of professional advice to the Ministry of Economic Development; the professional assignments to the Ministry of Economics and Finance; the bonuses for scooters; the sanatories for immigrants; the appointments in the boards of directors and even the flights in business class at the Expo in Dubai that - again thanks to an amendment by Brothers of Italy - we managed to eliminate. On this we have not come down to any kind of compromise either with the Government, or with the majority, because when we were proposed to be able to use as forces of opposition of important resources, up to a billion euros, we returned those proposals to the sender, stating that, if those useless measures had not been eliminated, we would not have agreed to confront us on the purpose of the decree under consideration. Mr President, we would have liked to talk about something else. We would have liked to have talked about companies, taxation, helping families, protecting jobs. And I want to talk about a few proposals, because the majority of our colleagues have accused us of demagogy. Therefore, I would like to give some examples of what Brothers of Italy proposed and which was rejected by the parliamentary committees. We have proposed, for example, the postponement of one year of the deadline for the payment of taxes by Italian companies, which will expire in four days' time. And it is not as Senator Mirabelli says, that yesterday he told us that we are doing demagogy and this year for companies in crisis there is the possibility of deferring the terms. Dear colleagues in the PD, that is not the case, because last year taxes were paid as they are paying this year, with the deadlines of 30 June, 20 July and 20 August; but this year we are in a pandemic, in the context of a delicate historical phase, and the Government has not even had the sensitivity to defer the time limits for paying taxes. With an amendment by Giorgia Meloni we had foreseen the possibility of deferring the deadline to 30 June 2021. This measure did not cost much - as someone said - because some colleagues before me have shown that, with a few million euros, the deadline for the payment of taxes by Italian companies could have been postponed. These are the proposals that you have literally rejected. Just as you rejected the proposals that allowed companies that did not send their employees to cash-in order to have a contribution in equal measure compared to those who instead sent them to cash-in, to reduce the tax wedge and therefore the cost of labour, which is the real emergency is now existing in the country system. We asked for liquidity for Italian companies and families. You have approved a liquidity decree that we have renamed the rescue decree banks, which, instead of supporting companies, has solved the problem of stranded claims of the same banks. In addition, we had asked for the elimination of all unnecessary measures that I referred to earlier. Mr President, the air you breathe outside these classrooms is very heavy. During the hearings we have held in recent weeks at the Budget Commission it has been said, in all the interventions of the national institutions, that 60% of families do not arrive at the end of the month. Italian GDP will fall by 11 percent and 39 percent of Italian companies are at risk of extinction. In the autumn - according to the undersecretary Misiani - there is a real risk of social tensions; and this is not what Brothers of Italy says, but you say it of the Government PD-5 Stars. While all this happens in the country, you have thought well to do the General States at Villa Pamphili, keeping the country blocked ten days, without producing anything concrete and positive for the country itself. In fact, silence has completely fallen on the general states. For two months we have been waiting for the simplification decree, which has not yet arrived, and we know that Minister Gualtieri is ready to bring in these classrooms a further deviation of 20 billion. And with these 20 billion detours, we will find ourselves having that famous amount that the center-right indicated right away, when the pandemic broke out. It is those famous 100 billions that we initially imagined to invest, without having to wait four or five months, wasting time and causing many companies to die and fail. Do you know why I'm telling you this? Attempting this operation at first would have been different from what is happening today. You have done the mere welfare, which in part served, because it certainly had a kind of compensation; but there was never the possibility of having an overview of what the country system was. And we hope that this is the last time we will hear you ask for a vote of confidence. We hope that you will also have the decency to recognize the total failure of this experience of Government. While some of your friends would like rifles to be used against Brothers of Italy and perhaps would like to see us all hung upside down, we will continue to ask for free and democratic elections, because in our opinion Italy deserves much more: it deserves a solid, strong, courageous Government, able to make it run again and return to it the greatness it had. We are Italy, we are a country that deserves to be led by a government that is up to the situation. For this reason, Brothers of Italy will never give a vow of trust to this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u42	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Europe, with the derogations from the Stability and Growth Pact and the rules on State aid, has made it possible to have the Italian decree on care and the decree on recovery and we have been able to use a great deal of resources. The relaunch decree exploits, until the last euro, all the deviations, the margins of the balance to be financed, of the cash requirements and of the net debt that the Government has asked Parliament and that Parliament has authorized. Net debt rose by an additional 55 billion, after 20 of the Italian decree cure. That is 75 billion resources in support of Italy's rescue. It is 75 billion resources that are the biggest debt. Everyone now says this: it is a greater debt on our children, on their future. As a result, these resources should be used by thinking about exactly what they need and, for this to happen, it would be important for everyone in this House to look to the future without looking at the polls, first. Most of our children, in fact, still do not vote, still does not have social media and does not like. Also, you should also have a look at the whole that takes into account everything. Senator Unterberger spoke earlier about good practices that exist at European level and are possible between majority and opposition. It would therefore be desirable for the Italian Parliament to copy these good practices in the next few steps. The 75 billion were approved, with regard to the decree cure Italy, first by the Senate and, as regards the decree raise, by the House. The other branch of Parliament ratified. It has been stigmatized several times here, but monocameralism is really dysfunctional and does not even do justice to the true institutional reformists who would have wanted a very efficient Parliament. Then, from this point of view, Mr President, it could also be very important to imagine a change in the regulations from here on out. The 75 billion were granted by voting against, because the deviations were voted unanimously, but these resources were used taking account of some proposals and ignoring others. Of all I want to remember one, that is the impossibility on the part of the ordering professionals to use the lost fund. I don't say that about resources, because they are professionals used to making their talents the resource for their own future and their own family. But I think that today Italy would need to take for example the people who commit themselves, who study and give results with merit. That would be a very significant example. To make available the 75 billion foreseen, many implementing decrees are needed, 200 between care Italy and relaunch. Of course, I do not dispute this, but it is a huge challenge for the Italian public administration. It is indeed the time when public administration can prove to be partners of businesses and households. From this point of view, reading the decree relaunching and seeing the extension until December 31, 2020 of the possibility of working in smart working - which then smart working is not, it is a home working - turns out a strange way to demonstrate the co-responsibility between public and private and perhaps, instead, it is a way to mark even more the furrow that exists between guaranteed and unassured. However, the decree to relaunch is fundamental, of fundamental importance and of fundamental impact. I focus on the economic and business side. Key measures have been put in place: from the reduction of IRAP to the repeal of the 2019 balance and the first down payment of 2020, the non-refundable contribution, the tax credit for the rents of commercial rentals, the costs incurred for trade fairs then not realized, incentives for startups, the virtuous contribution for employees of companies in crisis who decide to take their initiative by carrying out the expertise of that company. Many resources have also been allocated to the tax side, and I quote the broadening of the possibility of compensation: it has already been compensated not in net debt share, but in any case it has already been compensated, and the sterilizations of the VAT safeguard clauses have been mentioned. There are also very important resources at work: over 18 billion in compensation and cash benefits. Maybe we could open it up here. If we want to talk about work in transitive terms, we need to talk about those who work and those who work. From this point of view, perhaps the decree could have started talking about decontributions, further reduction of the tax wedge, remodulation of rates, incentives for recruitment especially for young people and women who are particularly in difficulty. It will be done with the next deviation and, of course, with tax reform. Additional resources, amounting to 2.7 billion, are in favour of tourism. 4 had been announced, but it will probably take a lot more, because tourism is one of the key sectors of our economy, which is more in crisis and will recover later. The holiday bonus, the reduction of the public land occupation tax, so as to allow all restaurateurs to host outdoors, and the refreshment for municipalities of the non-introduced tourist tax are particularly virtuous measures. There are 266 articles rich in very interesting ideas. Someone's talking about rain surgeries at this point. To be honest, there is still no clear industrial policy strategy, but an economic land burned up by the health lockdown needed a large amount of rain. Even in the future, with a negative GDP forecast of more than 9%, with the International Monetary Fund having a further alarmed vision, with debt and unemployment at 12%, we certainly have to imagine bringing further water to this particularly burned economic territory. (at 12:02 a.m.) (Follow-up). Here comes a further step forward. Of course, we will vote in favour of confidence in the relaunch decree and I think that anyone should at this moment feel the call for responsibility to vote in favour of the measure, despite the awareness of its limitations of method and merit, but being perfectly aware of the enormous difficulties that we are facing with respect to a country that was already in enormous difficulty; sometimes inefficient, sometimes too bureaucratic and sometimes lost - as we saw yesterday afternoon in the Assembly - in ideological lexical battles really irrelevant to the problems that we have to face here and also to the problems that citizens have outside. Italy Viva will vote yes to the relaunch decree and will vote yes to the next very important steps, national plan of the reforms, first of all, because it is at the same time a challenge that Italy can no longer afford not to win and also the indispensable condition for accessing those funds of the next generation EU that we talk about so much. It is not that, if we do not do the reform plan, we do not get European resources because Europe is bad. No, these are simply called funds for the next generations; they are not called funds to be poured out and spent on rivoli without a project for the future. So for ourselves, for our good and for the future of our children, of which so much everyone speaks, we must take this step together. We must then take another step by saying yes to the additional European resources on work, health and, of course, for businesses. We can also forget the acronyms, if someone does not like them, but it remains objective that they are loans on very advantageous conditions, which do not ask for macroeconomic conditionality from Italy. They are necessary resources, but not sufficient. What is indispensable at this time is a unity of intent here. We must find a unit of leadership here and together, even by mediating, making timely decisions, making much less chat (if I may afford) and putting in place conclusive facts. There are no shortcuts right now, there's no one giving us discounts. The resources for the integration fund, for the income of citizenship, for the income of emergency, for the allowances end, because they are funds, at this time, in debt and Italy's debt must remain sustainable. What remains to be done, then, is to roll up the sleeves (as we say in the North: "Tasi e lavora" (tase and work), then row and work, study and continue to row, struggling to bring the ship Italy out of the dry and possibly to sail, maybe even better than it has always done in the history of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u45	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, many Members have rightly pointed out the problem that it was not possible for the Senate to discuss such a comprehensive and important measure. The problem is serious and it is right not to underestimate it; we are also thinking about possible regulatory changes, but I believe - I mean because I think so - that, starting with the Government, there must be an effort to organize the work, together with the two Chambers, in order to ensure Parliament's contribution. In fact, as a number of colleagues in the opposition know, who tried to do, before the examination of the bill arrived in the Chamber, a reasoning even with oppositions, perhaps in order to be able to break this measure, failed, neither in the majority nor in the opposition, to reach an agreement. I therefore think that, in addition to the work on the Rules of Procedure, we must all (government, majority and opposition) try to find - I think it is possible - a way of organising parliamentary work that allows Parliament's contribution. It would be useful for the government and more than sacrosanct for Parliament's prerogatives. If then we want to be objective, unfortunately now a material monocameralism has been going on for some time. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: none of us in this House can raise the index against others, because in the past we have faced similar situations (I do not want to remind you of the adoption of the first budget for this parliamentary term). If we want to try, we need an effort of responsibility of all, first and foremost of the Government and, as Eduardo would say, in proportion: the first responsibility of the Government and the majority, but also a responsibility of the opposition. I have another political consideration to make. Colleagues, I am very clear about the dialectic between majority and opposition: I always repeat that it is the salt of democracy. I hear about the assistance measure. I listened carefully to yesterday's and today's debate, with so many proposals from the opposition, but for the truth, after hearing about a relief measure and money in the rain, I heard a request for additional resources in the rain. I understand that, because we are in this situation, but then I hear about elections and at the same time I listen to the right concerns - which I share - in relation to the country's economic situation. We are very concerned about September and the consequences of what will happen in September, but I ask you: it makes sense to speak at this time of elections. It is entirely legitimate, because the elections are the highest point of democracy, but does it really make sense to talk about elections in front of a country that is going to exceed 150 percent - or perhaps more - of debt on GDP? Or should we make some other assessment, decide that there is a piece of road that must be tried together to avoid those social conflicts that we are concerned about? Finally, another consideration and another question: is there really nothing good about these measures? Can we really think of everything as a disaster? Is that the right message we're giving the country? Frankly, I don't think so. I listened to Bagnai accusing us of doing exactly, in the second line, a series of things that the League proposed. Let's be clear: we are doing something that has never been done in this country on the issue of the integration fund and on the issue of support for VAT matches. Never has the dimension of protection and protection had such a broad spectrum. Is that welfare? Colleagues, it is not welfareism; if we had not had the opportunity to give the fund also to companies under the five employees and to trade, if we had not helped VAT matches, where would we be today? What are the employment figures? What would be the pressure and the social crisis? Are there any critical issues? Yes, of course, millions, but we recognize it. We must recognize the critical situations for which the integration fund has not yet been activated, but you must at least acknowledge that there is a huge and unprecedented effort. This, colleagues, should also be recognized by you, because we will not emerge from this crisis if we do not manage the emergency and build a strategic facility for this country and it would be important for all political forces to participate constructively in the strategic system, in the dialectic of positions, if we really want to put Italy before and before polls, electoral interests and exploitations that too often pervade our debate. There are so many full-bodied interventions in this measure, and I would like to mention two of them, one of which is completely underestimated. The moratorium on loans has a value of 286 billion euros: does it seem to you anything little? Do you solve all the problems? No. But does that seem insignificant to you? In short, I would like the criticism, the harshest, but there was also the recognition of an effort that this country is objectively doing with a significant deviation. There are very important measures, such as the ecobonus, the intervention we have made on the masks (thanks to one of our amendments, but also other colleagues had put forward similar proposals), the issue of rents (which is not resolved though). There are important interventions - you say rain or welfare - that try to help a truly serious and very complicated social situation. I will conclude with a comment on the next deviation: we will still have to face critical situations, first of all tourism that is in a moment of serious emergency, and perhaps no longer need to chase. I think it is essential that an important fund for tourist retraining should provide our operators with an answer on the future and the future, because, without this choice, simply chasing the emergency will not allow us to make a qualitative leap. For these reasons we are voting for confidence and I hope that with the new deviation it will be possible to deal with those issues which could not be dealt with by this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u48	MANCA (PD). Mr President, undersecretary Misiani, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the pandemic has overwhelmed the balance of public finance. If we look up for a moment at the forecasts contained in the budget law we realize that those balances are now a wreck of the past and that looking for example some numbers - few but significant - we can immediately understand that the Government is facing a very difficult emerging phase. We did not have - like all other governments in Europe and the world - antibodies to prevent a pandemic, which was born local and which has gradually become global, symmetrically on all continents, but also and above all with times and modalities that still impact negatively on macroeconomic data. Speaking of Italy, a country with a strong export vocation, this represents a further pitfall to the dynamics of growth. A few numbers would be enough: the 2,500 billion euros of consolidated debt in May this year mean that Italy is facing a very delicate phase. We can listen to everything, but since we do not want to participate in the festival of banality, we must remember that these numbers show us first of all that our country is one of those in Europe that has used the highest debt rate, also compared to other European countries, to face the pandemic, to protect the job and to ensure the necessary liquidity for the company and the families, so as not to prevent a better future for our companies and our families. If we take the data - if you do not trust the technical reports, not even those of the Governor of the Bank of Italy - we realize that the size and percentage of net debt that Italy has proposed with the measures to combat the pandemic is among the highest, together with Germany, of the whole European Union. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, I think this data does not allow us to deny that we are in a situation of emergency and of great difficulty. I want to start here because we have to bear in mind that when we use heavy words that are boisterous to the credibility of the institutions we do not play a useful role in national interests. I say this with great frankness: I do not agree when we are accused of breaking democracy or threatening that we are in opposition to the fundamental rules of democracy. I do not even believe that it is useful for anyone to define this Parliament as 'invisible' because Parliament is the fundamental place of legislative activity and, therefore, it is very valuable to ensure all the actions necessary to go through the crisis. We made a proposal because within this emergency it is natural that the sixty days of time to convert the decrees-laws are not compatible with three readings. We have already seen it; it has happened in the past, when we were not in emergencies and, even more so, the decree today is even more compatible with the characteristics of the emergency that the Constitution recalls. We have made a very simple proposal, I say it to my colleagues and I take advantage of the presence of the Government. We have put only one condition in front of wide and complex measures: to break the measure immediately by building a political understanding and divide the arguments and the themes between the two Chambers because only in this way can we respect the sixty days that the Constitution assigns. I believe that - and we must say this - the emergency has made the urgent decree even more compatible and that such complex measures - we hope the last one per entity, but probably not the last one due to complexity - require strong political sharing. Colleagues, it is not compatible to divide Parliament between those who work and those who do not, between those who know the world of work and those who do not, between those who bring here legitimate and individual demands of despair and problems that exist in the population and those who do not. I think of those who like us every day live in their daily lives the relationship with the world of work, with the suffering of those who lose it, to those who like us every day live the complexity of making investments on the part of those who want to produce work, who, in short, comes from the root of work and the relationship between work, enterprise and capital. In short, it is unacceptable the accusation you have made to us and it is also unworthy of those who intend to defend the world of work to bring here exemplifications and readings without taking into account the overall context in which the world and the country are moving to cross this pandemic. I claim that difference. We are probably different first of all for this reason: we believe that physical distancing, which was necessary to cross the pandemic, should not become a permanent distancing of social dynamics. We need to restore communities; we do not oppose the necessary assistance, help and protection of the people we have accomplished. Emergency income and also probably a citizenship income more oriented to offering a training opportunity for inclusion are key tools to prevent social conflict and build communities. There is no room to attract new investments without ensuring cohesion. When we use words, I therefore believe it is very important to tell us among us that the choices we have made first in the care of Italy, then in the decree-law liquidity and then today with the decree relaunch, precisely to guarantee a universality in the protection of social shock absorbers to all (what has never been done before), constitute an intervention that marks the identity of this Government and the ways in which the Executive intended to cross the crisis and face the pandemic. ( [[Applause).]] We are aware that there may have been and there will be delays, that need to be corrected and improved, but a number is enough here too. The cash-integration hours of April were equal to the entire year of 2008, when the financial crisis that sank caused a complex economic crisis (the one-month cash-integration hours are equal to the twelve-month cash-integration hours). The delays are not justifiable, but to them, moreover, the decree throws again also tends to give an answer. We have, in fact, corrected some distortions that there were, especially on the integration fund in derogation between the State and the Regions, placing them obviously in the appropriate perimeter of the INPS trying to speed up the procedures further. In short, one account is denouncing the limit of the temporality of the supply, another is questioning instruments or accusing this Government of inability to give universal answers, which instead gave precisely to the world of work. Because for us work, first of all, is not a word; it is an identity, on which this Government intended to cross the pandemic and overcome the crisis. I say with great frankness that these actions, which have been important and which also the re-launched decree has included, are aimed at safeguarding an even bigger and more important issue. The liquidity of companies, in fact, and also the ways in which we are going through this crisis generate, together with interventions for families, an adequate response to our country, a precise identity regarding how to go through the crisis. That is why we do not want to underestimate the path that has been built. Colleagues, while the oppositions, even yesterday, spoke to us about subsidies as a wrong activity, we believe instead that assistance, social cohesion and community are indispensable in order to promote new development. While you are talking about flat tax, we have extended the payment of taxes to next 16 September, we have abolished the safeguard clauses of the relative increases in VAT and excise duties (structural measure very useful for our budget and for the future of this country), and we have also cut the balance and the deposit IRAP in 2020 for companies up to 250 million euros of turnover. And I would add that, while you were propaganda on flat tax, we have introduced measures to support the liquidity, even at a loss, of companies. And these are facts. I say, then, with great clarity and evidence that this is probably the only Parliament in Europe in which oppositions, every two by three, call for elections. This is the only place, the only Western democracy in which the opposition, in pandemic time, calls to elections, rather than institutional responsibility to go through this phase. [[Applause]] In front of us, we have three major objectives on which we must work. The first is the new deviation, necessary to guarantee the resources to the municipalities, indispensable to finance the shock absorbers. However, we also have before us the need to reform the shock absorbers and to safeguard that fundamental institutional cohesion between the State, regions and local authorities, necessary to build economic development and growth. In front of us, however, we also have two great opportunities: the new face of Europe. A great opportunity to give a development to the green economy, to the reduction of energy consumption, to the circular economy, to the ecological conversion of the economy: it means employment, work, growth. In front of us we also have the fundamental opportunity for a great, extraordinary, digital plan. A new digital deal of our country, other than the return to cash, as here was evoked as a fundamental measure. We need to reduce our distance. Every kilometer of high speed, every kilometer of optical fiber brought into our homes means reducing distances, modernising this country and taking advantage, even with the public system, of our most important infrastructures, to build growth and competitiveness. That is the challenge facing us. Sovereignism, individualism, the idea for which everyone makes himself to get out of this crisis, have been defeated. Now it is up to us to build a new economic phase. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u49	I call on colleagues close to the speaker to restore the physical distance - as Senator Nencini called it - provided by our Offices.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u52	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the two Undersecretaries present for being in this Chamber representing the Government. Indeed, we would have expected to see the whole Government putting its face on the decree-law under consideration, which you call to relaunch and which was to be the turning point of the country's fate, but we will be content. Today, with the approval of this decree-law from the name so evocative, a new rebirth could be started; today it could and perhaps should have been a day of hope for the Italians; today it had to be the day of the revival of Italy, of the renaissance of our country. I had imagined this day without a vote of confidence; I imagined it as the end of a path of sharing, because, despite the differences that make us stand at the opposite ends of this Chamber (and not only), we could follow a common path for the real revival of our country. In fact, you can also play in different teams, but I am convinced that if the opposition had really been involved today there would have been no need for a vote of confidence, because if we had all worked together on the decree-law relaunch in question, if the government had listened to our proposals, today we would have really done a good service to the country, but unfortunately it is not. The Italians would have deserved more than 252 pages and 266 articles that, as he wrote in the words "Il Sole 24 Ore" and not the oppositions, are a bunch of norms, norms, prebende, violations, unfairness that claim revenge. [[Applause]] They are empty pages destined to clash with a reality much harder than what you are telling us in this House and the whole country. This is a further decree-armored law that the Senate can only ratify, because it has not arrived in time to make changes or improvements. You served us a cooked and eaten dish, without offering the diners any chance of replica. You made the Senate a real ghost. You filled your mouths in front of the cameras saying that Parliament was not supposed to go on vacation. Well, we stayed here, we were here; you held us hostage to your divisions as people died of viruses or hunger and we were powerless to watch your disasters. You're so busy just thinking about the chairs that you have no idea what's going on outside this building. Just look around: shops that close and that have not reopened after the lockdown, workers still waiting for the integration fund as if it were the manna from the sky (justly it has become a divine grace), entire sectors that risk collapse; the traders are on their knees, the earnings still reduced do not allow them to cover the expenses for supplies, staff and rent and for sure all this cannot be compensated with a miserable 600 euro bonus. For many of them putting the products into liquidation and lowering the screen will unfortunately be the only solution. You've also been able to say no to our tax credit proposal to pay the rents of the stores, but I ask you: who doesn't work, in your opinion, how the hell does he pay the rent? I really ask you in a simple, sincere way. [[Applause]] I think of hairdressers, beauticians, artisans, bar managers, restaurants, pubs, pizzerias and then again VAT matches, professionals: they are all people that you betrayed with unfulfilled promises. They were asking for bread and in the meantime, drunk with your thirst for power, you have lost contact with the real world. The numbers in the Integration Fund, as we've heard, are merciless. The INPS has left almost a million workers who were entitled to it and who have not yet seen a euro [[Applause]] The lucky people who saw them must thank the heroes who in this country do not stop doing business, those whom Mr. Tridico has the courage to call lazy [[Applause]] ;Yeah, Mr. Tridico, the one of the click, the numbers of the integration fund invented because maybe he prefers to play them to the lot, the one of the fantastic hacker attack. The responsibility, however, is not only of Tridicus, because the responsibility is of the Government that still guarantees him to sit in that chair. Do we want to talk about the tourism industry, since it's summer? This industry gives lives to more than four million families. Just look at the beaches: they are semi-empty, in fact they are practically empty; my daughter Victoria also noticed it ten years old. You didn't notice the drama this sector is experiencing. Not only has it not been decreed the state of crisis, as we had asked, but because we are in the country where you have to sing and you also have to carry the cross, you have decided to charge on the private also the 80% bonus. [[Applause.]] After your citizenship income, you also invented citizenship vacation. Too bad, though, that people will not go on holiday this year, because they will have to feed their children in some way. You said no to the emergency fund of three billion, always for tourism; for your ideological rejection, you denied seasonals - who will stay at home - the re-introduction of vouchers, despite the emergency situation [[Applause]] However, you have thought of regularising irregulars. Let's talk about families. The government has shown that it totally forgets the world of childhood. There are mothers who have given up returning to work to look after their children, because the government lacked the right support for childcare and the person. According to the International Monetary Fund, one out of five companies operating in Italy in the sector is doomed to failure. We are also surprised that Christmas has a historical record. But do you think it's enough to put two people in the same house and keep them in the house locked in forced isolation to have children? That's not how it works, dear gentlemen. To build a family you need courage; to build a family you need security to plan a life [[Applause]] ;They need tools to reconcile work-family and not your bonuses like handcuffs that will disappear from one day to the next. When it comes to children, I can't help but talk about the hot chapter of the school. On the new school year the theater of the absurd, between plexiglass, software for measurements of the ergonomic benches and the size of the classrooms, was staged. I mean, millions of students who still don't know where they're going to sit because Azzolina said a million kids have to stay outside, maybe in the park, maybe under a fig tree like in Socrates' time probably. In this Chamber we have all asked from the League, forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia, for the resignation of Minister Azzolina. [[Applause.]] But to resign, even if you have been commissioners (because this has happened), you need dignity and probably the word "dignity" you can only write about decrees that then become useless. [[Applause.]] Because we know there's a blockage of layoffs, we make an exception to the rule and fire Azzolina. Here, this is the letter of dismissal of Azzolina (some Senators of the FIBP-UDC Group display signs with the writing: "We fire the Azzolina" and this would be the only case in which probably even the unions would make an oil and not only students, teachers, families and all the staff. And we come to the reality shows you're inspired by, your battle horses, that is, the words used and abused to deceive the Italians. "Lost Fund": this stranger; bring me here ten people who have taken the money for lost money, because I am unlucky and have not met one. Then, "guarantees": EUR 400 billion of which at bank branches - which you may not know - remained only the frustration of those who queue every day and then receive nothing. On the fiscal front, companies and professionals are not considered resources to give gasoline to the economy, but real ATMs to squeeze. In the next fifteen days there will be 246 tax deadlines: all payments, i.e. taxes to be paid. We asked for a white fiscal year, but not even the minimum union was done. The postponement of tax obligations to the next autumn the accountants asked this this morning in many newspapers saying that common sense imposes it. Too bad we realized that this government is against common sense: this is the truth. [[Applause.]] You have announced another budgetary deviation. First tell us where the money went and how the 80 billion euros of two budget deviations were spent for whose approvals the opposition votes were fundamental. We don't trust you this time. So first see camel and then vote deviation, because we will no longer overdo our children and grandchildren for the sole purpose of ensuring your stay in the government. [[Applause]] In conclusion, the measure under consideration is only one of the many disasters of this Government, which destroys everything it touches. But we will never make ourselves complicit in the destruction of Italy. There is a saying that those who do not know their limits have a marked destiny. Well, you will not take care of the story: you will take care of it very soon - in the coming months - the chronicle, which will wipe out your lies, your deceptions and your pitiful lies. And so you will be relegated to the unsuspecting circle. We are on the side of those who today suffer and have been deceived. For this reason, Forza Italia says no to this measure and will vote no to trust. We are and will always remain to the opposition of the Government Count, who has proved unable to manage all the dossiers observed so far and inadequate to face the challenges that Italy has faced. Get over it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u55	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I believe that we are in a paradoxical situation. For months now, the majority has been ruling through decrees and trusts which, in fact, prevent Parliament - not just the opposition - from pursuing its own demands, thus expelling it. Moreover, the Government postpones decisions to implementing decrees that are all to be built and implemented and that may never see the light. In the face of this situation, in which Parliament in fact no longer has its powers, we have witnessed in recent months continuous interventions by the majority in which we - the centre-right minority and the League - are accused of not having a responsible attitude. We refer this accusation back to the sender, because we have shown that we can vote in favour of those measures useful to the country. I am referring to the budgetary deviation. It has been recalled by the Parent Company, Senator Romeo, that we have been instrumental in the allocation of the EUR 55 billion that you want to spend in this way today. We have also tabled a number of amendments to this bill of conversion and to those of previous decrees-laws. It is no secret that Matthew Salvini, at the meetings that we have, often recommends that we have an attitude of government strength, that is, he knows not only how to interpret the dissent and anger of citizens towards this Executive but also how to make proposals. We do, and we always have. [[Applause]] Let me say, however, that we are very tired (I am, and I think many of my colleagues are) to listen to all the speeches - especially those of our colleagues in Movimento 5 Stars - lessons in behaviour, coherence and reliability. You see, these debates often resemble a theater where everyone plays a part, but unlike the theater, there is a judge who then, in the end, decides who was right and who was wrong, who correctly interpreted the needs of the country and who instead could not do it. And that judge is the people. [[Applause]] In your invectives you can talk about what you want, but the people will express themselves sooner or later; you can postpone the elections indefinitely, but sooner or later that day will come. I remind you that the League, as a government force, has grown from 17% to 34% of the consensus in one year. You have halved your consents by showing that you are not in tune with the country and capable of governing Italy, from 32 to 17 percent. [[Applause]] These are the facts, beyond the chatter we can make, from right to left, about consistency and activity of majority and opposition. We will continue with our responsible attitude, but one thing we want to say: many decree-laws have been adopted, but few are the results. The so-called decree cure Italy certainly did not cure the wounds of the country. The liquidity decree was a mockery, with the famous 400 billion bazooka, which did not put an extra euro in the pockets of most Italian citizens and companies. Now, the relaunch decree represents a missed opportunity. We have approved with our vote the budgetary deviation, which - I remember - is built on 55 billion debt at an exceptional stage, authorised by Europe for the emergency of Covid and in some ways unrepeatable, so as to determine that this money should be spent well, an opportunity that should not be lost. That's what we're contesting. There were in fact two models to spend these resources: yours, the usual one of bonuses, subsidies and assistanceism; and what represents instead the proposal of the League and of the whole center-right, that is the reduction of the tax pressure. [[Applause]] You collect money in a way that is disproportionate to families and businesses and then redistribute them; instead, we want to leave them in the pockets of citizens and businesses, so that they can make investments: this is the only way to make them competitive, certainly not the indiscriminate and senseless withdrawal that puts our companies out of business. Thanks to these policies, you are responsible for the decline of our economy and our country. This was the opportunity to be seized: you did not take it, but in September, when many companies will not reopen, leaving home thousands of workers (because this is the real risk that we are living), and will end the resources allocated and - alas - not yet distributed by the integration fund, what answers will you give the country? After spending these 55 billion, what will remain of the country's growth prospects and the possibilities to maintain for Italian citizens? Do you really think that this decree-law can promote the revival of the country and its agriculture, for example, with an indiscriminate sanatoria for immigrants? Is that the answer for the agriculture you have put on the field? Do you really think that it will be effective and that the most affected sector, tourism, which gave the country 13% of GDP and committed more than 4 million workers, can recover with the holiday bonus, which will then weigh on the tourist companies? [[Applause.]] Do you really think that extending the state of emergency until October - or worse, in December - will have no effect on the feeling of danger that foreigners will have in deciding whether to come on holiday in our country or not? [[Applause]] Is the security of President Conte more important than the possibility of developing tourism in our country? You're irresponsible if you think so. Do you really think that in the field of transport, with a car industry on its knees, everything can be solved with the bonus for the purchase of scooters, among other things not even produced in Italy, without giving work to the Italians, who, with many plants practically stopped, risk the job, how does all the induced that revolves around? [[Applause]] Do you really think so? Do you not realize how dramatic and grotesque this is in some ways? The Lega-Salvini Premier Group will certainly not vote in favour of trusting this Government. We will continue to try to make our contribution, as we have always done, with all the decrees that you have put to our attention in recent months, and we want to do so to the full, because we will return to the Government and we already have clear proposals and ideas on how to govern this country. We continue to repeat this and retable our proposals and amendments. But one thing is certain: we can have an attitude of responsibility, not hinder your government action in the Chamber and in the Commissions and give the ok to the measures that allocate resources for our country; put yourself in the lead, however, that we will never be complicit in your madness, your mistakes, your missed opportunities and your wrong choices. [[Applause]] The League has no confidence in you, like most Italian citizens, and you know it: you can close yourself in this building, close the doors, perch in here and lose the sense of reality, as you have done for months now; but outside there is a reality now angry, that can not yet fully manifest its dissent, and unfortunately there will be - I say unfortunately - a hot autumn, in front of which everyone will have to assume their responsibilities. We from the opposition do it as a government force, because we know that we are a majority in the country; you are absolutely inadequate and your invectives against the opposition will produce nothing. These are empty words, which are spoken in this House, but which do not find any echoes outside this building. You delude yourself that with the accusations to the opposition you will return to have consent, but that consensus that you have lost will certainly not find it through this attitude and wrong measures that will not resolve the fate of the economy of our country. The Lega-Salvini Premier will vote no to the confidence of this Government and this measure, which is a missed opportunity for everyone and for the whole country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u58	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law that we are about to dismiss here in the Senate today is one of the largest and even the most critical and powerful in Italian history. To support companies, families and workers we have allocated 55 billion euros, which are going to add to the 25 of the Italian cure. It is the third of the economic decrees launched by this Government in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. The three decrees in fact (the Italian care of 17 March, the liquidity of 8 April and now the decree relaunch, published in the Official Gazette on 19 May, because also the temporal scan has its importance), are to be read as a continuum and are part of a single organic design. With the Italian care in fact it has been intended to give immediate answer to the emergency, that from health risked to become economic, strengthening the health system, offering support to the income, blocking the dismissals, extending the fund integration in derogation, suspending the expiration of the taxes, supplying resources to the enterprises in difficulty, finally starting the process of digitization of the public administration and the Italian school waited for years. With the liquidity decree, then, the measures in support of companies, craftsmen, self-employed and professionals have become operational, providing the tools for access to credit and facilities of different kinds put in place. Now, with the decree not by chance called relaunch, we plan the future. With this measure in fact not only strengthen the previous measures and extend the terms of the facilitations and the aid planned, but we plan precisely the future of the Country. So let us not only play in defence, as has also been said, compared to an unexpected and dramatic event such as the pandemic that has struck the entire globe, but we offer a long-term perspective to launch Italy in the future. Precisely this means in fact having introduced the super bonus to 110 percent for energy efficiency and seismic adjustment, with in addition the possibility to use the matured credit, giving it to third parties or banks: an authentic green revolution, that not only will allow our country to improve its energy performance and renew the building heritage, with an energy saving that will have excellent environmental repercussions, but that will also have a positive impact on the world of work and will facilitate the creation of a virtuous economic circle, through the transfer of credit. This green revolution will have its natural follow-up with a further measure coming, dedicated to simplification and deburocratization in the field of public contracts and construction. Nothing has therefore been left to chance. From March to today, from the moment Italy was struck by this misfortune that changed our habits of life, this Government, the Movimento 5 Stars and this majority immediately understood that from the crisis could and should arise the opportunity to look beyond and finally introduce those profound changes that the country has been waiting for decades. One of them is the strengthening of the national health system and the strengthening of the school system, both from a building and a teaching point of view. This emergency has finally made it clear to everyone that investing in health care is not a loss, but it makes in economic terms and the salvation of human lives, and that doing so in school is investing in the future. [[Applause]] Never before had so much resources been allocated to health care and school. A homogeneous, coherent and forward-looking framework: but in what context has it been conceived? I would like to offer this House, but above all to those who listen to us outside this House, our perspective, that of the only political force that has been in the government since the beginning of the current legislature, which is therefore the real custodian of this vision, namely the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause]] , and which, after a single legislature to the opposition, has passed to the government of the country. So let us briefly retrace the history of this parliamentary term that is halfway through, also in order to give the context of reference in which these measures are born. After a labor of a couple of months, in June 2018, the yellow-green government is formed; not two months pass and in August the tragedy: the Morandi bridge comes down like a plate of chocolate in the sun, causing 43 victims and the shock of an entire country. One year later, Senator Salvini decided to make a shitload of the signed government contract and try to cash in. Mr Tosato has just nicely recalled that in that year of government with us, the League has gone from 17 to 34 percent. Nice strength! Instead of working, you spent your time propaganda. [[Applause]] Two things are remembered of the year of the League's government: the security decrees; in fact they had also made the concrete decree, but no one knows what it is. In any case, the attempt to move to cashout fails. We avoid the headtail and form the new government, the current one. Even on his battlehorse, the contrast to illegal immigration, this government is doing better than he is. [[Applause]] The Minister Lamorgese, far from the spotlight, from media clamors and selfies - 500 selfies took Salvini last Saturday! [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u59	Senator Marin, sit down, please! MAIORIN (M5S). The Minister Lamorgese, far from the spotlight and the media clamor, has tenfolded the number of relocations and increased the number of returns by 15 percent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u60	[[Protests]] I'm talking to the presidency and I'm looking where I want it! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, Senator Maiorino, look this way! I am here, you must address the Presidency, because the Rules of Procedure provide for it. MAIORIN (M5S). All right, Mr. President, if you care, I'll look at you. After a few months from the formation of this Government, here we fall on Italy and on the whole globe nothing less than a pandemic. This was the path we crossed and that has led us up to today, to the vote on this decree relaunch: today, that August 14, 2018 returns bullyingly current. As I think all of you in this House, I remember that day very well. I remained with my breath suspended for a few hours, waiting to know how we would react and how my Movimento would react in the face of such a catastrophe. Then, finally, the words of the minister and colleague Toninelli: very clear, clear and impeccable; the only ones that the Genoese and Italians wanted to hear. "A civil and modern country like Italy," he said, "can't afford to see tragic events like this. It's not acceptable. The wrong person must pay until the end of the month. [[Applause]] The applause, of course, is for Danilo, who went on to say: the first thing we will do is look at the concession signed with Autostrade for Italy, revoke it and severely sanction those who have not fulfilled the maintenance obligation. What a relief these words were, there were none else that my Movimento could utter at that time. It was the right reaction, the only one possible in the face of that disaster. Today, at last, those words have found a follow-up and a realization, after the very hard negotiations that ended the other day. The Benetton family will be excluded from the freeways management. [[Applause]] He renounces to the 23 billion loss of income, yields the participation in Aspi and therefore the management of the infrastructure. Motorways for Italy becomes a public company open to new institutional investors and will pay a compensation of 3.4 billion, giving up all lawsuits against the driver, i.e. the State. The toll plan will therefore be revised according to the new indications of the regulatory authority. It took two years, but this transition really represents the sunset of an era, in which for too long the State had favoured a few small potentates, to the detriment of the citizens and taxpayers, that is, the community it represents. It took two years and, as I have mentioned, they were not simple, indeed, rather enlivened. Extremely broad lines. This is the framework in which we have been working, with an opposition which, as we have already denounced for some time in this House, did not even consider it appropriate to be constructive and responsible in the face of such an emergency. [[Applause]] and parts of the majority that, sometimes, rather than favor collaboration, do not hide it, seem to have fun throwing sand into the gears. We have done a great deal in this context. Of course, there have been criticalities; not everything is perfect nor has it gone in the best way. It must be said, however, that the figures are such and, apart from the physiological difficulties, to date we have 850,000 applications for loans guaranteed by the State received by the Revenue Agency, amounting to 51 billion euros of loans granted. The revenue agency itself has provided 4.5 billion grants to 1.4 million small businesses. The INPS, which in 2009, the year of the financial crisis, had worked and authorized 916 million hours of cash integration throughout the year, in the only half of 2020 allowed 2 billion. Something jammed? Is there any delay? Of course it is, but on 7 July the INPS paid 7.3 million cash benefits, compared to 7.6 authorized. We tried to really think about everything and everyone. I conclude by saying that tomorrow is a crucial day: an extraordinary European Council will be launched, which will most likely determine the destinies of Italy and the European Union itself. We know it won't be a simple passage. Today's news is that some countries are proudly opposed to the proposals carried out by Italy and also supported by France and Germany. We therefore reaffirm our trust in President Conte, certain that he will be able to put to good use the great work done in recent months: our support goes to him [[Applause]] and our confidence and to this Government I announce the favorable vote of my Group, the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u61	I refer to the vote on the single article of the bill n. 1874, of conversion to law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 34, 19 May 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his place. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Arrigoni is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. I have a list of 17 senators who asked to vote first. It has been accepted, but at the next Conference of Leaders I am committed to bringing regulation to these demands, because it is not something about the Presidency, but about the respect that is owed to colleagues (the train or plane to be taken probably have it all, but seeing residents or neighbours who ask to vote first is not always well. [[Applause]] Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, appealed. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Buchcarilla Country, Carbone, Cario, Croatti, Crocioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Ferrara, Ferrari, Floridia Lonzi, Donno, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fede, Fedeli, Féli, Ferrara, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Floridia Gilenti, Donno, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Evangelista Faraone, Fede Senators say no: Aimi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Barbaro, Berardi, Bergesio, Bernini, Binetti, Bonino, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calandrini, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Casolati, Causin, Cesaro, Ciampolillo, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, De Bertoldi, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis Fazzolari, Fazzone, Ferrero, Ferro, Floris, Fregolent, Fusco Galliani, Gallone, Garnero Santanche, Ghedini, Giammanco, Giro, Grassi Iannone, Iwobi La Pietra, La Russa, Lonardo, Lucidi, Lune Su Maffoni, Malan, Maffoni, Magnche, Magni, Marin, Mantelli, Giorini, Giorini, Giorini PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of the bill n. 1874, of conversion into law, with amendments, of the decree-law n. 34, May 19, 2020, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 281 Senators voting 280 Majority 141 Favorables 159 Contrari 121]] The Senate approves. [[Applause]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 34. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 1.51 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u62	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Relations with Parliament, the Minister for Economic Development, the Minister for Defence and the Minister for Youth Policy and Sport will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator De Petris has the right to explain the question 3-01779 on the sale of arms to Egypt for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u63	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the matter is well known and concerns the purchase of two Fremm Bergamini frigates and some aircraft manufactured by the company Leonardo, by Egypt. During the week - I also see the Minister of Defence - the value of the whole operation has increased exponentially. The other absolutely alarming element concerns the annual government report on arms exports, which was transmitted to Parliament in May and which unfortunately confirms a certainly impressive trend that sees a significant increase in arms exports by our country, about 80% since 2014. I would like to remind you that Law No 185 of 9 July 1990 regulates the sale abroad of Italian military systems, expressly prohibits arms exports to countries whose governments are responsible for certain violations of international conventions on human rights, adding that exports must comply with the foreign and defence policy of Italy and also with Article 11 of the Constitution. I believe that the human rights violations in Egypt are quite well established: the wound caused by the killing of Giulio Regeni is open in all of us, as is the arrest, further continued, of the student Patrick Zaki, and a whole series of other continuous violations. We therefore continue to demand that this sale be stopped and that there be a significant rethinking, precisely in application of Law No 185, to begin to curb the export and trade of arms especially to countries clearly guilty of violations of human rights. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà, may reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer Mr De Petris' question on the basis of the information provided by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, who was unable to attend the sitting. Decisions on supplies in the defence sector involve two important orders of assessment: technical control and political scrutiny. On the basis of Law No 185 of 1990 the Government examines on a case-by-case basis the requests of Italian companies for authorization to negotiate contracts. At a later stage, if the negotiations led to the signing of a contract, it shall assess the export authorisation. The Government examines the specific nature of the supplies, the consignee, the user, their possible use. The investigations are also carried out through the contribution of technical-military opinions. The granting of the authorisation shall remain subject to strict application of these criteria and to prior verification of the existence of impediments. These may relate to companies involved or arising from a total or partial embargo on war supplies by the United Nations (UN), the European Union or the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), or also from responsibilities for serious violations of international human rights conventions. Violations must be established by the competent bodies of the United Nations, the European Union or the Council of Europe. With regard specifically to Fremm frigates, the Government has carried out a careful examination from the legal technical point of view at national and international level, with particular attention to the deliberations of the European Union. Of course, he also considered the purely political aspects of the issue. In this respect, account should be taken of the role played by Egypt in the enlarged Mediterranean, the fight against terrorism and the fight against trafficking in human beings, the protection of our energy interests and the Libyan crisis. This overall review was completed by a discussion in the Council of Ministers at its meeting on 11 June 2020. Pursuant to Article 10 of Law No 185 of 1990, authorisation for contractual negotiations does not automatically give the company the right to obtain export authorisation. This is the subject of a subsequent and separate evaluation procedure which, in the specific case, is under way. I would like to make it clear that no other European State has so far taken restrictive measures on this type of material, with no reference whatsoever to possible violations of internal public policy. Such assessments and choices do not in any way affect our firm and incessant search for the truth about the barbaric murder of Julius. His tragic death is an open wound throughout the country. The demand for justice remains deeply rooted in public opinion, in this Parliament and in all institutions, government in the front row. We will not cease to demand the truth at every opportunity. For all of us it is a clear commitment, a responsibility that we feel strong in our consciences.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u65	Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u66	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his dealings with Parliament for having come to answer my question and say, incidentally, to the Minister of Defence who, in any case, has made them available to him. Of course, I can't thank him for the answer. We cannot be satisfied because I do not think we can divide the fact of continuous research that a country like Italy, out of respect for itself, must demand with regard to the truth and justice for Regens, the fact that we are meanwhile signing an agreement for a very substantial sale of weapons. The violation of human rights is not a fact or a matter of public order within a country. The story of Egypt, such as Amnesty International and all the other international observers tell us, is before everyone's eyes. I hope as far as we are concerned and I hope that it will also concern the Government - I know, among other things, that today Minister Di Maio will be audited in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the death of Giulio Regeni - that the issue of sales is not closed and, indeed, that there can be an operation that would be very important for the prestige of our country, which would mean first of all putting respect for our citizens and human rights before any kind of business. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u67	Senator Pichetto Fratin has the right to explain the question 3-01781 on the cases of takeover of the State in the share ownership of companies, with particular reference to the Atlantia group, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u68	Mr President, Minister, the issue of the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti in the capital of Autostrade per l'Italia (Aspi) is on the agenda following its spread last night by the Government. It is described as a nationalization, as a great financial operation and also as a fair punishment for the lack of maintenance that caused the victims of the Morandi bridge; this at least from the reading of the media. The media are focused on these issues, on the use of the Deposit and Loan Fund and on the defense of postal savings, as well as of course on what the investment is, and this is really an investment. This result is the result of a confused and a little violent operation. We ask you to see it as well as in the purely financial corporate part, which probably has powers of other delegation, in the political line because the Government is a collegiate body. However, we ask you to see her also with respect to her delegation as Minister for State Participations and, therefore, as manager of the economic-productive and industrial policy of our country. Of course, anyone who speaks to you would like the State not to be an entrepreneur and to take care of schools, hospitals, justice and defence; it governs you and I oppose it. But we ask you: what is the industrial and occupational reflection of such a choice? What consequences, even on the Benetton Group, in relation to the textile brand and its presence in the world? Many of the companies present on the crisis tables, which we quote in the question, have foreign partners. How will they interpret the situation? Will they still trust you? Will they trust Italy and the commitments it will have to make on those tables, in some cases, to get out of the crisis? We are talking about lowering the highway rates, as well, as an advantage from public management. Is it not a risk of the state entrepreneur, who then pays the people? Don't you think that this way of acting sharpens a clash between state and business? We need peace. We need security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u69	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u70	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members very much, because it is a very complicated subject and unfortunately the time taken for their answers does not allow deep reasoning. However, I will try to give some elements. The Autostrade dossier for Italy can be read from many perspectives. I answer - because the question is correctly asked in these terms - from an industrial point of view. I believe that in a liberal state like ours, in a liberal economy like ours, it is the State that makes rules, letting entrepreneurs play on the table of rules, certain and equal for all. That's the goal this government has. In view of this, we are at a time of great complexity, as is evident, from an economic and industrial point of view. It is clear that at this moment the state must also be the guide of those supply chains and of those industrial assets fundamental for the country, protecting the supply chains that work. Above all, it must allow our productive fabric to make the necessary leap of innovation, technology and digitalization. In this the State must be an important guide, also through the large companies involved by the State. As many know, the great participants are available not to the Government, but in general to the country system, to guide this path so complicated. On the merits of infrastructure assets, I believe that Cassa deposits and loans, through CDP Reti, plays a very important role; it already has it, being in fact the reference of Terna, for example for the electric part, of Snam, for the gas part, of ENI, for the oil & gas part, and of Leonardo, for other important assets of our economy. The part of physical infrastructure such as the motorway is a strategic and important asset; it can be an advantage for the state to be present, especially because that is not a competitive market. I'm talking about my city: when I leave Trieste I can't choose between four or five motorways, I choose one. Then, motorway services may be the subject of market competition, but for the infrastructure network we can make a parallelism with Terna, who manages the material part of the electricity transport and over which there are no alternatives. I believe, therefore, that it can be an important asset, in which the state can represent a guide; it will certainly have some abilities, which are those to better guide the necessary maintenance and implementations of our transport systems. If we consider the issue from an industrial point of view, it is a fundamental operation for our country. Equally crucial will be the presence of the State in the management of the single network for the digitisation of the Country; in part there is already, through Open Fiber, of which Cash deposits and loans is already, together with Enel, reference shareholder. I believe that in this historic moment it is necessary for the State to invest in some infrastructures: the motorway is one of those, in our opinion, fundamental. Therefore, beyond all other points of view, from which you can see the ASPI dossier, I believe that from an industrial point of view it is just and intelligent for the State to invest. I would point out, moreover, that it is difficult to think of putting the savings capital of Italians at risk with an operation such as that which has been done. Just look at Aspi's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA) for the last ten years to realize that it's hard to think of going to loss in that business. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u71	Senator Pichetto Fratin may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u72	You are esteemed Minister, you know that the estimated value is not only formal, but unfortunately you have deviated to the limit by quoting the EBITDA of the last few years, but not of the last six months and therefore you have somewhat contradicted yourself. I cannot say that I am satisfied with your reply, but also with the course of the last two years in which you have dealt with this issue and started this process of staticization. Indeed, in our opinion it risks creating mistrust in Italy, declaring the birth of a new system of state participation, after having struggled so hard to dismantle it and avoiding to put the money of the Italians. We have the great fear that it will make many investors flee from Italy because of the way it was started, not so much for the management that we will evaluate. Investments in Italy - you know well - are currently estimated at around 400 billion. So, it's an important source for our country, as well as - I know you don't have the issue - the postal savings that is becoming an ATM for this government. And yet we continue to declare the eventual withdrawal of concessions. I finish on the Benetton issue, but that goes to the record: it is not your job to do the action, but the hypercommunication of the government of the previous three days has depressed the quotations of the title, then in the night proceed to a change of course and to raise yesterday the title to a + 26,5. Is everything all right? Do you know who bought and who sold these two days? Is it market disturbance? I'd like it to be on the record, because whoever has to deal with it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u73	Senator Rojc has the right to explain the question 3-01783 on Italy's defence development programmes in Europe for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u74	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, although attention is always polarised at European level by the opposition of rigour versus flexibility, there is no doubt that the issue of defence and security is one of the most sensitive points on the European Union's agenda. The positive fact is that in recent years we have seen a sharp acceleration in the integration of European defence. On other issues, the European project has difficulty in correcting itself, while several factors, including conflicts and geopolitical changes that Europe is facing, have led to a completely unprecedented activism on defence. It is necessary to strengthen military and security cooperation between the countries of the Union and to create common capacities: a matter of absolute importance that in today's context concerns the Union's strategic autonomy as an actor in the international geopolitical scenario and in global economic and technological competition. Of course, Italy is the center of this dynamic, because it is at the center of the Mediterranean area, one of the world's hubs of instability. Moreover, because it is a country with a strong European vocation and because we have an industrial system of the highest level of absolute excellence. Within this framework, programmes intended to be financed under the European Defence Fund under the next multi-annual European budget will play an essential role. With regard to permanent structured cooperation, Italy is leading nine projects out of a total of forty-six projects and participates in sixteen other projects: these are strategic projects, among which is of particular importance that of military support in the event of disasters, civil emergencies and pandemics. According to the Pesco and European Defence Fund (EDF) the programmes are based on the principle of co-financing and therefore require an adequate financial commitment from the participating countries. A first phase of the project must be financed from national budgets, for a second phase comes EU funding. This applies especially to the leading countries. In order to maintain the leadership role it is therefore necessary to allocate a certain share of resources, otherwise you risk losing control, the leading role or even being excluded from the project. The question we are asking you is what tools or procedures we can define to ensure financial and stable resources in support of Italian participation in European defence projects. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u75	The Minister for Defence, Mr Guerini, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of a common European defence is certainly a strategic objective which the Italian Government has always pursued with commitment and conviction. In this sense, the initiatives for the consolidation of common security, as well as the related programmes to support the development of the national defence industry, represent an opportunity that as a country we want to foster and we are committed to seize to the highest degree. The current economic and health crises and the developments in the geopolitical context in the areas of interest confirm - if anything there is a need - that there is an urgent need for a shared implementation of an ambitious Community management system, to be developed also using all the possibilities offered by the initiatives already in operation, starting from Pesco. In this respect, the planned review of its management rules by the current year should allow for the optimisation of cooperation projects, including streamlining them by using the procedures and funding provided for under the European Defence Fund. The latter is in fact essential to finance and promote cooperative defence research and development programmes, with a view to being able to effectively address the crisis and future threats. We have long supported the need for an ambitious and adequate budget for this fund, which is not yet sufficient in its present size, with which to contribute to supporting the national and European economy, especially as regards small and medium-sized enterprises. For Italy this means promoting the productive sector of defence, to be supported also with appropriate financial incentives, given the fact that it represents a fundamental sector for the economic recovery of the entire country. In this context, with regard specifically to the defence industry support programmes, foreseen in the 2017-2020 period - the real evidence in the field of what will happen in the future - I represent that last June the European Commission formalised the result of the award of funding under the European Defence Industry Development Programme (EDIDP) and Preparatory Action for Research (PADR) for 2019. Of the 40 industrial proposals presented under EDIDP, 16 were selected for funding, and among them two are national leaders, while seven still see the participation of Italian companies in the winning consortium. In the context of the PADR, pending the officialization of the 2019 award, of 18 selected projects, 12 are in Italian participation, of which three are in position of coordinator of the consortium. In order to define the exact volume of funding for the national industry, it will be necessary to wait for the conclusion of the grant agreements, from which it will be possible to acquire the final share of the work within each industrial consortium. This is also in order to be able to define in a reasonable way - in accordance with the principle of fair return - the percentage of national contribution to government co-financing of the project in question. From the data currently available, and in the more part of the signing of these agreements, it is likely that, compared with some EUR 200 million allocated by the Commission, projects involving national industries in EDIDP will be beneficiaries of just over EUR 134 million, to which some EUR 12 million from the projects selected under the PADR should be added. In conclusion, these figures must be read in a single perspective: progressive access of the defence industry to European funding flows, with irrefutable repercussions both in employment and technological know-how. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u77	I give the floor to Senator Vattuone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u78	Minister, I will say straight away that we are largely satisfied with your answer to the question put forward by Mr Rojc. We share with you the idea that the defence system is a valuable asset for a country like ours, and maintaining it and making it more efficient certainly represents one of the priorities for our country, first of all on the internal front (we have also seen it in the health management of this period). At the same time, in the pro-European perspective, which is a subject against the background of the question, as you well mentioned, Minister, defence is certainly a promising issue, even with a view to greater European integration. European cooperation, including industrial cooperation, undoubtedly maximises expenditure and enables an economy of scale in this area as well. As you well said, having managed to win the leadership of important European projects is a sign of vitality and excellence for the industrial sector of our country. They are essential projects for European capacity and support an important industrial sector that has contracted in this period. Minister, we will help and agree with you. We are satisfied and the Defence Commission, as you will know, has already approved a unanimous resolution on this issue at the conclusion of a deal, which is an important sign. In repeating our satisfaction with the answer, we will help and thank you for the work you do. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u79	Senator Garnero Santanchè has the right to explain the question 3-01778 on the prospects of reopening the stadiums in safety conditions, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u80	Minister, making the premise that the data on Covid, as you will have seen, in recent weeks are absolutely comforting and I add: thank God. In fact, we now have 57 patients in the ICU and the new infections yesterday were 162. We've seen that part of science - which has certainly split - claims that this goddamn virus is clinically dead. I quote Professor Zangrillo to name one. I trust clinicians very much because they are doctors who have been and continue to be in the trenches, who stand by the sick and who have been able to see exactly what the situation was. We hope, therefore, to continue along this path. Since we are talking about football, you will remember very well that, when Naples won the Italian Cup, there were celebrations. We can also say that, perhaps, they have been somewhat exaggerated, but you will remember that many birds of the bad wish told us that the contagions would have a surge; they used names as criminals, unfortunate and irresponsible. Even in this case, thank God, all this did not happen, so much so that the government began to do some reopenings: cinemas, theatres, concerts of opera music, restaurants and outdoor discotheques were opened. On the other hand, keep the stadiums closed and armored, which, as you know, Minister, are all outdoors. I have no knowledge of stadiums indoors and, therefore, we cannot understand what are the reasons that continue to remain in this stalemate. You, being the Minister of Sport, know the very high price you paid for football with the suspension of all championships. Beyond the game itself, you know that there are millions of Italians who have passion and find recreation there. At such a dramatic time, it would certainly have been a help. I would ask you, then, to accept the demands of sports federations and fans - also my colleague, Senator La Russa, has repeatedly spoken about this issue in this House - in order to quickly adopt appropriate solutions to ensure a gradual, safe opening of stadiums. Let me give you an example: I am from Milan and the San Siro stadium has 80,000 seats. I think a third of the spectators could go to the games right away. Of course, we will have to take into account the specificity of the plants, capacity and also of the teams and, therefore, we ask you this question because we would like to give back that passion and that emotion to the Italians who find there an important emotion in their lives. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u81	The Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, Mr Spadafora, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u82	Mr President, Senator, as was also mentioned in the question, the health emergency has unfortunately forced us to block all sporting competitions. Subsequently, probably precisely the prudence referred to by the Senator has allowed us to start again with the various decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers first with the training of individual sports, then with the training of team sports and then finally resume the sporting competitions, which - as you can imagine - I too, as Minister of Sport and as an Italian citizen, was particularly interested because I fully share the idea, of which you spoke, of passion and leisure that sport, as well as being a great industry important for our country and especially football, represents for all Italians. Nevertheless, today, even when we are confronted with the Minister of Health and the Technical and Scientific Committee, it is considered that we must continue, in some way, precisely on the line of prudence that has allowed us, gradually, to reopen the various sports activities and if anything, prepare ourselves, in an appropriate way, because in September, the reopening of the championship, which then means only in two months, there are all the conditions to be able to reopen the stadiums and allow tens of thousands of fans to attend the sports competitions. Today, if it is true that, within the stadiums, there would be the conditions and spaces to ensure a distance between a total number of fans, it is also true that it is considered very risky to favour the influx of a huge number of people (for example, the 10,000-12,000 to which you referred in the specific case of Milan) who go all, at the same time, to one place, taking autonomous means or public transport. Above all, it is necessary to understand how to manage this flow of people for entry into the stadiums, with the need to measure the temperature and do a whole series of operations, which, probably, missing by now a little more than two weeks at the end of the championship (on the 2nd of August), also together with the Federation and the leagues, would be difficult to organize. My commitment, from this very precise point of view, is to create all the conditions so that that hope which is recalled by the Senator and that I, in the spirit and effect that it produces, I fully agree, can be implemented starting from the resumption of the new championship in September. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u83	Senator Garnero Santanchè has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u84	Minister, we cannot be satisfied with your answer, because we want to return to life. We want to go back to everyday life. For goodness sake, we must absolutely guarantee safety and health, but since many other activities have been able to reopen, with difficulty, with the distance, with the masks and with all the measures that you very well know, this answer cannot satisfy me. This response means that there is an intention not to bring people back to normal life. You said, Minister, that passions are too important in each of us, in every human being. If you continue to say no to passions, if you continue with this policy of terrorism and to frighten people who cannot return to normal life, I suspect, Minister: that this behavior is the child of a radical chic culture that penalizes popular sports such as football. If you say that you can go to a concert of opera music, if you say yes to the cinemas and theatres, where you are indoors, I really have this suspicion: that you are not with the people, that you are not with passions, that you are not with men and women who ask you to stop this policy of terror and to return to normal life with measures. [[Applause]] There is no part that wants to guarantee safety and health and another part that, on the other hand, is for the culture of death. I belong to a political movement where the culture of life is very important, because life is sacred. Let us, however, return to everyday life. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u85	Senator Sbrollini has the right to explain the question 3-01780 on the announced reform of the sports sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u86	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as we know, the emergency Covid-19 and the restrictive measures taken have created an economically dramatic situation for the whole sports sector, as Senator Garnero Santanchè mentioned earlier. This has, of course, resulted in a drastic reduction in turnover and a liquidity crisis, which sports companies and associations have suffered and whose negative effects, unfortunately, will also be seen in the coming months, with very worrying prospects for the whole sector. We know that in the decrees issued in recent months the Government has contemplated forms of support for sport, also thanks to the amendments of each political force. However, it is undeniable that most of the companies operating in the sector, especially those at amateur and local level, have clearly expressed the risk of cessation of activity, if they do not know in a short time how to relaunch the sector. We are talking about very important numbers, Minister, which you know well. This means above all that a fundamental activity in the territories, i.e. that of basic sport, is lacking: let us think about how much our children have suffered in these months, with the closure of schools and with the sport that could not be practiced. This is also one of the reasons why as Italy Viva we made a proposal, both to you and to Minister Azzolina: the gyms of the schools must remain for the exclusive use of sport for our children, just as they must remain for the use of societies and sports associations in the territories. It is precisely in this respect that I would like to focus on the tax credit because, as we know, this aspect of the House unfortunately did not find acceptance in the decree relaunching, while you, Minister, know that from many political forces, including Italy Viva, there was the need to have these tax incentives, just to cope with the emergency, since so many territorial sponsors are in difficulty, while the companies at this moment could still help the clubs and sports associations in the territories. This tax credit is therefore essential to us, as requested with a very important document from all major federations. Finally, Minister, I would also like to ask you a question about the law of delegation on sport, which also requires a great deal of attention. First of all, we safeguard the autonomy of sport. In the next few days there will be meetings with you, who have already started the table, both with the majority and with the minority. There will be fundamental aspects for the world of sport and we want to know better, both the way and the method that will be used. Each of us is studying the draft delegation law, but you know very well that there are many critical points on which we absolutely do not agree. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u87	The Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, Mr Spadafora, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u88	Mr President, I would like to thank the Senator. I'm going to flash because four questions were actually asked in one. As far as amateur sports associations (ASDs) and amateur sports clubs (SSDs) are concerned, I assure you that, given the hand, we can say that on the world of local sports associations the Government has made an investment in economic and financial terms that has never been seen before. Specifically, for ASDs and SSDs, no-fund support has also been established. Until last week, when the ban was still open, requests came for about 40 million euros. We are able to satisfy all the requests, so already from the end of this week, we will start the transfers against all the ASDs and all the SSDs that have requested. Sometimes 1,000 euros are required, sometimes 11,000 euros: everyone documented the type of difficulty he had during the pandemic period and will receive the support precisely because on my part, as well as on the part of the whole Government, there is the conviction that the social and cultural fabric, which sees many associations protagonists and which means sociality, participation and legality, goes in all ways safeguarded. As far as gyms are concerned, Minister Azzolina has already blacked out the fact that the gyms in extrascholastic activity will not be taken away from sports activity at all. If anything, in this regard there was the theme, posed by the school leaders, to understand how to recover also all the resources necessary for the continuous sanitization of the environments and the school gyms that could sometimes, in some cases and in some regions, be used for the school activity. Also in this case the Ministry of Sport will provide an ad hoc fund to help all schools have the necessary resources to ensure the sanitization of gyms, so that they can be used, on the same day, both for school activities and, then, for sports activities. As far as tax credit is concerned, unfortunately even in the parliamentary examination of the decree-law it was not possible to insert anything in this sense, but as a government we will do so with the next budgetary deviation: I made a specific request to the Ministry of Economy and Finance and I am convinced that we will find the resources, in this deviation. Finally, with regard to the delegation law, as the Senator knows, the Government's intention is to deal a great deal with the political forces. As you know, just the day before yesterday there was a meeting, set already for a week, with the delegation of Italy Viva, which then the same delegation thought to cancel, having needed more time to deepen the text. We are available and as soon as the delegation of Italy Viva will be ready with the deepening of the text, we will meet it. I agree with you: the autonomy of sport must be safeguarded and politics must remain out of sport. This is very important: politics must be an interpreter of the needs of the world of sport and not of individual people. This is very important, it is a point which I welcome and which I agree with all of you: let us all help to keep politics out of sport. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u89	I have the power to respond to Senator Sbrollini for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u90	Mr President, Minister, I am partially satisfied, for the reasons which you know well and which have seen us face up to several times. As for the tax credit, we very much hope. It is important that it has communicated a date, that of budgetary deviation, and that we can also keep the document, as it was written by the world of sport, because no one knows better than them how to make the societies and sports associations survive on the territory. Very well, then, as far as school gyms are concerned. On the subject of the delegation law, there was no problem on the part of Italy Viva, except that of having received, only in paper form, a draft of 124 pages, three days before the scheduled meeting and therefore, clearly, we have asked for more time, like other majority parties - I understand that the Democratic Party has done so and not only - just to be able to better address this issue and ask for a majority meeting and not separate meetings between the political forces. That was the request, and then I really hope that reform will be done in the best way possible and seriously: here there are no attacks or defences of individuals or individual places. Precisely because we want to do it right, we must do it together, majority and minority. This is a very sensitive area, not only of professional sport, but also of basic sport. So, as far as I am concerned, I will remain at your disposal, like other colleagues and colleagues, in order to be able to work together and set up a truly permanent working table, with the world of politics and sport, because we all have to write a new page together, knowing, however, that we need skills and the true autonomy of sport. It is essential that the Minister of Sport is there, but he must work with clear guidelines and not be the one who, in some way, completely occupies the work for the world of sport. He must protect those who work every day in that world, that is, the leagues, the federations and the thousands of volunteers, who work for the territory and for our municipalities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u91	Senator Romeo has the right to explain question 3-01782 on the development of a plan to combat the spread of drugs among young people for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u92	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are asking you today, as a Lega Group, as part of your delegation to youth policies, because there is no doubt that the news of the death of two 15- and 16-year-olds in Terni following the use of drug addicts has brought to the fore an issue that is never mentioned here, nor at national level. I am also very concerned because I have a young son who will grow up and enter the stage of adolescence. Unfortunately the reports that come from many parts, today and today, indicate that even in the city centers, freely, in the open air, there are many very young children who, unfortunately, make use of drugs. Today, drugs, mainly thanks to modern systems (the vast majority of the drugs being distributed are synthetic), have much lower costs and are increasingly accessible to all. Unfortunately, this indicates a real national emergency. The latest data we have, not encouraging and related to 2018, are contained in the report to Parliament on the phenomenon of drug addiction in Italy by the Department for Drug Policies of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. It even states that drug-related deaths were 334 (i.e. 12.8% more than the 296 in the previous year), even with a significant share even among women over forty. On the day against violence against women I was invited to Monza, my city, to an event, attended by my colleague Pucciarelli, on which was present Anna Rita Calavalle, a well-known researcher at the University of Urbino, in which the former boy shot in the face. At the time, she, alas, became famous for this reason, was trying to get him away from using drugs. At the time there was a lot of heroin (which, by the way, is now in danger of returning). She said that education in schools is very important because if you do drugs (she also referred to a joint) it means that something is wrong; if to spend a nice evening you have to get high it means that there is a fragility behind it. Mr Minister, let me say that, rather than thinking about the issues of the liberalisation of light drugs or of sex education in schools, it would perhaps be better to start doing some education not to use and combat drugs. In fact, in most cases - says Anna Rita Calavalle, who goes to schools to teach - the kids absolutely do not know what they are going to hire. Mr. Minister, we're interested in knowing if there's a plan to counter drugs from the government. When Salvini was Minister of the Interior, with the operation Safe Schools and also the support, through the resources put in place, in favor of therapeutic communities (the strong relationship between that Government and the community of San Patrignano is known), certain actions had gone in a certain direction. We want to understand what the government is doing and whether this plan has it, as well as what is being done in education, since you are taking care of young people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u93	The Minister for Youth Policy and Sport, Mr Spadafora, has the right to answer the question that has just been put.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u94	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Senator. In responding to the Senator, I would like to make it clear that my delegations do not specifically include the coordination of drug policy, which has remained at the head of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, along with disability and civil protection. Therefore, even the actions of the government's anti-drug policy department, which exists, do not affix in any way to my political address, nor are they from my vigilant Ministry. Having made this brief premise, but having considered the Senate that I had to report on the question under discussion, I provide some elements of information and evaluation as compared to what has been requested. The Department of Drug Policies of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers has a plan to combat drugs that invests in young people through targeted prevention actions. Following past drug information campaigns aimed at the general population, local prevention actions have been promoted in recent years aimed at specific and more vulnerable targets, such as young people, aimed at developing awareness-raising and information actions for parents, educators and teachers. Activities are underway on the phenomenon of road accident alcohol-drug related to the prevention of addictions, as well as activities on the territory, also in agreement with all the Forces of the Order, Police, Carabinieri and others, to raise awareness on the phenomenon of the sale by young people of drugs, especially via the web; initiatives to which we have contributed in part also as Department for Youth Policies and Universal Civil Service. In a particular way, with reference also to an amending proposal that had been made and not accepted in the context of the conversion of the relaunch decree, to which even now reference was made, the objective of the same proposal was to implement the agro-food chain of hemp, a sector that has not remained free from the economic crisis following the emergency Covid-19. With the aforementioned amending proposal, it was also introduced the necessary specification aimed at establishing that what is allowed to produce from the qualities of certified hemp referred to in Article 1, paragraph 2 of Law No 242 of 2016, similar to what is foreseen for plants, did not fall within the disciplinary context of the single text of drugs, referred to in the decree of the President of the Republic n. 309 of 1990. In this regard, in general, with regard to the debate on the legalization of light drugs, I believe that the sensitive issue should be put back to the democratic parliamentary confrontation between all political forces - as was also mentioned at the beginning by the honourable Member - confrontation with which the Government will certainly intervene constructively. I would add that, as far as the sense of participation is concerned, the protagonism, but also the level of education at which you referred, with a plan that provides as much as possible for the involvement of young people, which is a part of my ideas, I can assure you that since I have this delegation, which I keep also from previous governmental experience, my constant daily action is aimed at all forms of participation and active involvement of young people, to discuss also these issues, not in the specific case only on drugs, because it is precisely the competence of another Department. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u95	I give the floor to Senator Romeo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u96	Mr Minister, what can I say, except that your answer was mainly a technical one, to say everything and the opposite of everything. Yes, you are doing prevention policies; maybe in six months we will come back with another question so then, according to the numbers, we will see if the prevention policies are actually put in place. I do not see all the great involvement of the world of school, beyond the issue of Covid, which clearly kept pupils away from schools. I do not see the great attention also to media, cultural, protagonism to try to make sure that the kids understand what drugs are, what types of drugs there are today, what difficulties there are and also, unfortunately, I have to say what the market for light drugs is. There's no point in us doing so many delicacies. It is estimated that EUR 4.4 billion is spent annually on narcotic drugs, which are debilitated to mere light drugs. Not surprisingly, 58 percent of drug operations and 96 percent of the quantities seized, 80 percent of the administrative reports and 48 percent of the complaints concern cannabinoids themselves. Let us be very careful, therefore, about these aspects. I am not one who believes much in conspiracies and conspiracies, but I have the feeling that there is a design, of course at a much higher level than the Italian one - he knows when you hear about government and global society, about globalization - aimed at anesthetizing the younger generations, because usually the young people are the ones who propose the changes, the revolutions that, in history, have always taken the great steps. By allowing them to use more or less light drugs, we anesthetize them all so they don't break the boxes to the power system that controls this world. [[Applause]] This is the big issue that I believe exists, although not one that makes politics or believes in conspiracy. That is why we shall return to this issue and re-examine it. At this point we will address the question to President Conte, with the hope that he will also come and ask himself - as he said he would, since he wanted to parliamentaryize everything - in such a way that we will also have some response on the policy front active by the Ministry - as you say - directly competent. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u97	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u98	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u99	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u100	FOURTH (M5S). Mr President, yesterday in the early light of dawn, a terrible accident took place on the freeway linking Barletta to Andria. A van overwhelmed an electric bicycle with three guys from Barletta on board: two died instantly and the third died in hospital. 17-year-old Pasquale Simone, 18-year-old Giovanni Pinto and 19-year-old Michele Chiarulli: three young lives broken in the flower of youth. The city community is strongly shaken by what has happened. First of all, I want to express my concern at the premature disappearance and my closeness to the children's family. I share with all my heart the heartbreaking pain that suddenly pierced them. As a practice, the judiciary has intervened and the case investigations are under way to ascertain the dynamics of the accident, the circumstances and any responsibilities. Looking forward to their outcome, I believe that what has happened should lead to serious questions for us legislators, for those responsible for public order and for all citizens. Electric bicycles are certainly of fundamental ecological importance and should be encouraged to promote sustainable mobility, especially urban mobility; but they must be built with high safety standards and a speed limiter that cannot be modified. The e-bikes, in addition to complying with the new road code as amended by Article 229 of the decree-law relaunch, should be subject to stricter road safety rules: helmet and mandatory lights, license plate. Equally constant and rigid should be the controls of the Forces of Order. Structural measures are needed to build preferential lanes for bikes, urban bike paths according to an efficient network (to avoid frequent exits and entrances from lanes), reserved lanes for extra-urban, cycle routes. Civic and street education must be hammering and widespread in all educational agencies, in order to induce children to civic and conscious behavior. Of course nothing can give us back our lost lives, nor soothe the pain, but we have a duty to act, to avoid similar desperate tragedies in the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u103	MARINELLO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am taking the floor today to put what happened yesterday in Palermo to the attention of this House. A violent summer storm hit the city. Climate change is a reality and is causing impacts and phenomena of frequency and intensity never seen in human history; and with them suffering, loss of lives, upheaval of ecosystems and the richness of biodiversity that sustain our lives. Water bombs, fires, deforestation, hydrogeological failure, temperature rise, environmental and maritime pollution in particular are creating many problems for the whole planet. On the Sicilian capital fell a large amount of rain, which flooded in a few minutes some areas of the city. In two hours the water bomb that fell on Palermo flooded the underpasses in Viale della Regione Siciliana, blocking numerous cars that passed through. I remember that the avenue of the Sicilian Region is a large artery, very frequented, that connects the highways of Trapani and Catania. It was an exceptional event, with few precedents; a strong storm that discharged a huge amount of water (110 mm of rain), with intense and violent rainfall, in a two-hour temporal space, kneeling the city of Palermo. Weather conditions are now strongly conditioned by the processes of anthropization that have changed the climate and the environment. The internal roads have turned into rivers; we have seen incredibly dramatic images: submerged cars and people forced to leave the houses and swim to escape. The fire department, who intervened early, worked from the early afternoon hours and throughout the night and are still on site, with the special teams of divers and with the hydrovore, to verify the remaining machines in the water and in the mud in search of missing persons. More than 300 have been the interventions, also to clear houses and evacuate buildings at risk of collapse. And then the first thanks go to the whole rescue machine, to the fire department, to the State and local police who, with courage and timeliness, have carried out their duties by providing the necessary relief and saving from the worst the unfortunate citizens who were passing in those flooded streets. This morning the sun shines on Palermo and the effects of the disaster caused by the heavy rain are more visible. My embrace goes to all the Palermons, waiting for the reliefs and investigations that will apprehend any responsibilities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u104	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-241.ana.u105	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday, 21 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.02 p.m.
