ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1874, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u5	Mr President, last night the 5th standing Commission did not give a mandate to the rapporteur because the Groups, by mutual agreement, in a fair, peaceful and transparent manner, decided not to examine the amendments because there was no time to amend the measure under consideration and it would have been a pure exercise of exercise to reject 1,500 amendments. I therefore refer not only to the state of play of the budget but also to the state of mind of the Commission, which shows some disappointment at the fact that it has not been possible to intervene on such a measure. We are disappointed, but in the awareness that such a measure was necessary and urgent for the country: 55 billion euros were in fact the minimum necessary to deal with the consequences of the epidemiological emergency, which are occurring in these times in our country. We are therefore disappointed, but aware that it was necessary to do so and if the times, unfortunately dictated by the other branch of Parliament, have prevented this branch from taking decisive, precise and precise action on such a measure we take note of it; but it is necessary that the Presidents of the House and the Senate take measures and that we agree, in a sincere, loyal and precise way, once and for all, that if such a measure comes, each Chamber can examine it for no more than a month (or even a little less because there is a need for time for a possible third examination). [[Applause]] It is therefore necessary to establish from the beginning what are the necessary and appropriate times to be able to deepen the study of such a measure. Therefore, the rapporteur has not been appointed: next time we will try to do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u6	President Pesco, I think I can speak on behalf of the Presidency, which has already made the point of these remarks with regard to the full possibility of examining measures of this importance also by the Senate. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Pesco's report, draft law No 1874, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday when I looked at the volume of the decree-law, I tried to write in my mind today's speech. I thought I could talk about the changes made to the ecobonus, and I can easily see that the rule has been somewhat complicated, but there is still no reference to companies, as if the premises that host workers were not in need of an improvement in energy efficiency. Or I could have talked about the rule, inserted in extremis, which provides economic aid for the municipalities declared red areas with regional measures; and there, with some satisfaction, I noticed that this majority accepted some of the ideas of the opposition: it would be nice if our contribution were recognized. However, dwelling on these aspects in front of a text of nearly 1,000 pages is like trying to describe a haystack by representing the single thread of grass. In fact, yesterday, looking at that volume, two great authors came to mind: Borges and Beckett. You all know that Borges is the author of an amazing text, the library of Babel, the library where all the endless books are contained in a chaotic way. Well, that text at the limits of the illegible (and I ask each one of you who really has read it and really understood its meaning and its normative value), that volume of 1,000 pages that yesterday was present on our tables reminds me of Babel's library. This is not what the country needs, but it is clear, of course, the purpose of this majority: to take time, to wait for Godot, who would be the European Union; to take time, to make the country believe to do something, greatly complicate our order. In this regard, I would remind you that in the majority there is a political force that has presented itself to the Italians saying that they want to simplify the order: congratulations! Well, I think you are joking with fire because you also know very well that, yes, you are taking time waiting for the European Union to provide its aid, but you also know that aid can cost a lot, it can cost a lot. Attention! Be very careful, because I see in all this a drawing, and I see above all an unconscious design for the interests of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u8	Thank you, Senator Grassi, also for reminding us of the figure of the syneddoche.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u9	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, I fully understand the indignation of many of my colleagues in the minority forces, also because of the way in which the decree-law was wounded yesterday in the Commission. I understand that because, since it was discussed in the House, colleagues from the other branch of Parliament have said that there was no material time to allow an in-depth analysis of the Senate. This, however, does not mean that some "points on the i" must necessarily put them, because it is a substantial measure. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u11	Forgive me, Senator Modena, some of your colleagues point out to me that they cannot follow because of the buzz that is actually on the increase, so I would ask colleagues in this House to moderate themselves. Go ahead, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u12	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). We are talking about a measure of extraordinary weight, we know that we have made a deviation of EUR 55 billion, but we have a leverage of EUR 155 billion, a debt of EUR 304 billion until 2032, 98 implementing decrees to be approved, which together with the regulations make a total of 113 measures, a maneuver that, as someone has rightly said, is worth about three and a half times a budget maneuver. It is therefore a measure that has been analyzed for a long time anyway, that did not arrive in haste like the decree cure Italy or like the decree liquidity, or in any case under the pressure of the choices that were to be made at the moment. I therefore believe that, since there has been all the time to meditate on this measure, which is substantial from an economic and financial point of view, what is basically missing in this budget decree should be noted. In other words, we are faced with a supermaneuver - this is the term that I believe should be used - which, however, is not the daughter of an overall vision of support for the economy, but of a concept that is limited to a kind of reinforcement, to call it so, or if you prefer a work exquisitely compensation with reference to some incomes that have been lost, while the interventions for recovery - I do not speak of vision, that according to us is not there - are absolutely minimal. There are therefore some substantial choices missing, such as support for specific sectors to recover the pre-Covid growth level - but if you want we can also say pre-crisis - of 2008-2010. This is the political point of this decree relaunching: it strengthens a little here, a little there. The House has also been able to make improvements, but let us not forget that the figure is 440 million euros, so about one percent of all the resources that have been foreseen with the budgetary deviation, but basically there is no guideline on the basis of which we understand what the design is to return to growth at certain levels. It is true that some of the amendments, by Forza Italia in particular, have been approved in the House and in our opinion are improvements: I am thinking of the bonus for the staff, the extension of the benefits for the victims of duty, the issue of disabled people and the five million euros for prosthetics and aids, the fund for the support of fashion, the norm that allows the possibility of creating a sovereign fund and, with reference also to my region, Umbria, the correction that has been made with regard to red areas and the tax credit increased for research activities. This does not mean that, apart from the fact that - as I said - there is a lack of linearity, the criticalities are many, just think, for example, of the whole game of residents and scholarships, of the whole game of the earthquake, of the issue of ecobonus that excludes some categories, of the professionals who are excluded from the lost fund, of the amendments tabled by Forza Italia that have been rejected and that concerned the responsibility of the employers with regard to the contagions; I am also thinking of the amendment that concerned the essential levels of assistance (LEA) with regard to those who have been in resuscitation and the madness of blocking evictions throughout the country until 31 December without distinguishing whether the non-payment was due or not to the Covid. Therefore, in the face of these improvements - on which, however, I am Quantifying it, Parliament has affected one per cent, i.e. EUR 440 million - everything else has given me a weight to my heart. I do not know if the majority feel this weight as I feel it, because in my very small I have given my vote for this deviation of the budget, that is, I have allowed the country to be indebted until 2032, or who knows when, for 55 billion euros of debt (then as the figures increase, but that was the sum); however, in view of the fact that in the decree-law relaunching in question there are no guidelines for the recovery but thousand rivoli and therefore you do not see the furrow of the river, let alone the sea at the end, frankly I wonder if this vote really expressed it in the interest of the country. This is a subject that I still have on my conscience and which I think about every time I read the government's provisions. I do not say this with emphasis or with a will to attack, but because I ask this majority whether, in the light of the measure under consideration, it is safe at night when it goes to sleep. [[Applause]] That is what I ask of you. Moreover, given that the debate is reduced, with the deep sense of the role of parliamentarians of the Republic that we have, frankly I would like to know if you also go to sleep quietly in the evening or think that perhaps €55 billion have been thrown out of the window with a whole series of consequences for the country that will occur today and also tomorrow. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u13	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u14	Mr President, I take the floor with a faint feeling of disappointment that I have had the opportunity to complain over and over again during the discussions of the last measures taken by the majority; measures that probably do not interest you either, given the attention you are giving him today. I listened a moment ago to Mr Pesco's words regarding the work of the 5th Commission and when he said that he would bring back the Commission's spirit by saying that by common agreement they decided not to examine amendments and agendas, in his very transparent and clear words - of which I must acknowledge - I also read one of the symptoms of the evil that our poor Parliament is attacking, namely the fact that we are giving up the legislative function, that is a fact. [[Applause]] In fact, it is not possible that this time, as on other occasions, we find ourselves having a fake debate; we are having fake discussions, because today we are talking here about a beautiful package that has arrived at us and which - let us remember - has actually only been examined by one branch of Parliament. If this is the perfect bicameralism that should be a guarantee of the values of the Constitution, it is clear that sound reflection should do so. We should do so not so much because bicameralism does not work, but because obviously the instrument of bicameralism is distorted by a governmental function that wants to use Parliament's classrooms simply as clearing houses, as to show that you have listened to the needs of parliamentarians who should represent the people and citizens, even if this does not actually happen. I come to the merits of my Commission, the Justice Commission, where we have presented an opposition opinion as a League which is obviously contrary to the indications contained in this legislative provision, because as usual - and as I have repeatedly said in this House - the justice system is completely abandoned. Whatever it is said and despite the fact that measures have been taken to rationalise the work of justice in our country, I invite Minister Bonafede and the President of the Council - who is a colleague, a lawyer - to go to the courtrooms today, as I do on days when I am not here in the Chamber, to see - as I do continuously - how the judicial function is absolutely debased and can not be substantially guaranteed to the citizens its exercise: this is a fact. Let's go see the referrals that continue to arrive, from all points of view, from the magistrates who fail to perform their function to the chancellors who cannot do their job, and we are here pretending to discuss a measure that even fails to get at least the opinions. We in the Committee on Justice were perhaps too good and we also expressed an opposition opinion; yesterday the majority did not even manage to give an opinion in the Committee on Agriculture (I was present and neither were they able to give an opinion there). This morning's news is that not even the 3rd Committee on Foreign Affairs and Emigration has been able to give an opinion. Let us then ask ourselves some questions about what we are doing in this House, because if we are simply mocking the citizens, let us say so. Tell the citizens you're making fun of them! I sincerely do not take this responsibility; I am here to perform a political function and I have to account to those who have elected me and I will sincerely raise my voice every time more until it is heard. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u16	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Decree-Law No 34, so-called relaunch, in its articles and paragraphs provides for a set of rules, covering among others the health sector, which is always involved in the process of organization, or rather of reorganization and strengthening of the welfare network to cope with the epidemiological emergency from coronavirus, giving the regions and autonomous provinces the guidelines necessary for a better structuring of hospital activities, territorial services and active surveillance and monitoring activities in assisted health residences (RSA). The main theme in the area of health pervades and binds all the decree-law in question is aimed at an overall and progressive strengthening of the National Health Service in its various territorial and hospital areas both as regards the organizational aspect and as regards the availability of health and parasanitary personnel with the new recruitments planned. And it is with this in mind of a better and more appropriate programming of the real need for specialists, necessary for the future of Italian health care, that the substantial increase, never realized before, of specialized training contracts for the years from 2020 to 2024 is involved. In my opinion, an important and qualifying point is the structural strengthening of the hospital network of the National Health Service with a specific plan of reorganization able to deal adequately and quickly with pandemic emergencies with a structural increase in the beds of intensive care and authorising the Regions to increase the expenditure for the recruitment of health, parasanitary and technical staff. In particular, with regard to the reorganization and the increase of intensive care places throughout the national territory, at least 3,500 new beds are expected, resulting in a ratio of 0.14 beds per 1,000 inhabitants. It is also crucial what is planned for the regions, which must identify, within the hospital structures, the care units in the hospitalization system for patients with Covid-19, to ensure that the separation of routes is efficient so that this becomes structural and to organize and restructure the first aid departments, identifying separate areas of stay for patients suspected of Covid-19 or potentially contagious and still waiting for diagnosis. After the emergency response it is essential to plan to avoid being unprepared in the face of the eventual return of new epidemic waves or possible other pandemics that could occur in the years to come. Another aspect that I would like to highlight is the possibility of offering a faster diagnosis for Covid-19 infections, because in every emergency the time factor makes the difference. In this regard, it is planned to set up a network of qualified public and private laboratories by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, capable of carrying out molecular tests for SARS-CoV-2 with speed and quality control. In the decree-law under consideration there is also an implementation of the integrated home care, also through the special units of care continuity (USCA) and also for the patients in isolation, because asymptomatic positive or possible infected, guaranteeing them - and this is important - adequate health support and careful monitoring and assistance I would like to emphasize that the strengthening of nursing services passes also through the introduction of the nurse of family or community, which should become an important cornerstone for the general and paediatric care in the territory in order to reduce the accesses to the First Aid and the number of hospital admissions, improving the home care both qualitatively, and quantitatively (made, the latter, particularly important in chronic or neoplastic diseases). This brief excursus represents only some of the very partial considerations on the decree-law under consideration. The measure, even in its complexity and its marginal smudges, wants to be a large but programmed container in which come together norms and concrete and practicable measures, not only in order to cope with the emergency health and economic but destined to sustain the economy and lay the foundations of an improvement to wide spectrum of health care - both hospital, and territorial - in Italy, with a careful look to plan also the future. In this respect, see the increase in intensive care beds and specialist training contracts. We cannot and must not lower our guard and we must try to give the citizens, even in their inherent difficulties, overcoming their anxieties and indecisions, greater serenity, tranquility and security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u17	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lucidi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, these are very special speeches this morning, because, unfortunately, more than going into the matter, we all share a great sense of outrage over the behaviour of the majority and the government. It has already been said that I strongly denounce him and point him out to you, Mr President, to bring him back to President Casellati, what happened this morning in the Foreign Affairs Committee, emigration. It is, in my view, an absolutely shameful fact. The President Casellati has assigned to the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration, as to all other Commissions, the request to express the opinion on the so-called I throw again decree; a tome of 266 articles, which certainly places itself in the first place in the decree of the Italian Republic. We had therefore prepared a minority opinion. The Presidency of the Commission for Foreign Affairs and Migration has decided not to give an opinion because it does not consider the decree to be re-launched within its competence. Therefore, in response to a request from President Casellati, the Commission, in absolute autonomy, decided not to give an opinion. So this sheet of paper will remain rag paper; certainly not for us. The President has already denounced this fact by saying that we are the Parliament of the invisible. From now on we will also be the Parliament of the unheard because we are not only here to perform our own function, but we cannot even express our opinions in the Commissions. The Presidency of the Commission for Foreign Affairs, emigration, considers that export and internationalisation measures, such as the refinancing for the year 2020 of the Integrated Promotion Fund for Foreign Markets, are not within its competence; similarly, it does not consider that the refinancing of the Fund provided for in Law No 394 of 1981 and the increase in Chapter 2515 of the Ministry of Economic Development are its responsibility. Just as, according to the Presidency of the Commission, it is not your responsibility to take measures for the reception, the structures for the protection of asylum seekers and a whole range of other arguments, such as the functionality of our offices abroad, our diplomatic consular network, also considering the crucial role that these offices play in our country's economic recovery strategy. We wonder why the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Migration believes that all these matters are not within its own competence. This morning, in my brief speech, I would like to say that we want to reiterate our parliamentary function. We have a total of 266 articles which are passing through this House in the drowsiness and boredom of the majority. Here it is, the majority who support this government! Distracted, as it was distracted the other day during the ratifications. We denounce this fact and we will definitely write a letter of complaint to our President Casellati, who has already reported this fact. We certainly don't want to be invisible or unheard of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u20	Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to know what the Colao Committee and the States-General have said and what has been incorporated into the so-called relaunch decree, at least in what is proposed to us in the latest version. In my opinion nothing. So we've wasted time, we've done some "casalinates." Let's start with an observation that is close to my heart, even if I know that a certain mentality thinks that the center-right of certain things does not care. If GDP is to increase, we will have environmental problems. At the time when there was a lockdown you could see from the satellite the pollution spot on the Padana Valley, where there were the dead and where it is the cause of the severity of the disease, the cause at least. However, if we continue to increase GDP we will have more pollution. What did the Colao committee say? What did the General States say? Taking information from newspapers, because it does not appear from documents, the key measures would be those on gender equality. Gender equality will solve the problem of the economic crisis. Now, while I am convinced that women occupy important places and that the smart ones are more important than men and grow on their own, I believe that gender equality, in order to solve this problem, is a joke. I also believe that the scooters - for which 60 million and 120 others have been allocated, or maybe 300, will be added, as the Minister of the Environment says - represent, I said once, the freedom to kill oneself or to get killed. They are very dangerous and you will regret the choice. Smart working can solve one, two or three percent of the problem, a percentage that can already be significant, but it is enough that a faldon or an interview with a person is missing and the worker remains firm. We give money to rain that, fortunately, requires many implementing decrees, circulars and management determinations, so we proceed slowly because being in rain they are spent badly. When you don't see the results, like in a football team, you change the coach and you change the strategy. If the results are not there and everyone is unhappy, you probably need to change your strategy. On the other hand, the investment rules contained in the simplification decree - which are very important - have been discussed in this House for two years and probably discussed in previous legislation - we have postponed them, hoping that they will be contained and truly feasible. For now we are investing another three billion in Alitalia. I believe that if an Italian citizen understood what it means to give another three billion to Alitalia, he would lead the fork party. The problem of the ILVA has not yet been resolved and on the motorway concessions there have been unfortunate facts that, if it were in existence a government of center-right, we would have strikes in the Senate and also on the roofs of the Senate, because certain statements cannot be made to the detriment of companies that have participations also foreign and not enough to be friends of the Merkel. We postponed the fake rules: lottery receipts, plastic tax, sugar tax. The postponement would be sine die. We are faced with a new cost of wild immigration, however aggravated by the fact of importing positives, as in 2017. I hope someone comes in and provides. Then I remember the costs of justice, which does not work and tries to hide what happened; we hope in the witnesses of Palamara. We will have a new NPL season of banks and we will have a warm autumn, says the Minister of the Interior. That's the situation. What have the nations close to us and more or less friends like Germany, Switzerland and even the USA done? They have credited to the current account of all families and companies a significant figure without so many formalities and less bureaucracy so that everyone, at the cost of making some mistakes, can spend and restart the economy. The funds are found in Europe. There's a dispute going on to spend it. Since there will be many and we do not know when they will arrive - perhaps in 2021-22 - the government is predictable to hold, because it has to decide how to spend them to make customers. I have said several times in this House that, in my opinion, there is a great teenage infatuation in Europe, a suggestion. We all put something in the ESM and then take something back, maybe, but checked, because the loans have conditions. Today a prime minister, an economic minister and a president of a European Commission say that they will help Italy and tomorrow they will say that there are conditions on tax, banks, the pension system and debt. These are statements that we read and can read. Then we don't understand each other. The quantitative easing could become for pro-quota purchases if the judgment of the German High Court came out in the coming months and this would be a very serious and dangerous thing. Everything turns into public debt for our great-grandchildren, for those who will be there. It is indeed time to study in this House. Deputy Minister Misiani, you are attentive to these aspects and I told you once before: we must set up a fund for Italians. It is not a fake proposal, you have it in the drawers, it was presented by cross-cutting personalities: to confer the property, to subscribe to the quotas by private individuals and Italian institutions. In that way we would really show that debt can fall: it will decrease the debt, it will decrease the spread and we do it ourselves. Otherwise we start dangerously towards the jubilee of the debt, already evoked in this House and out of some characters far more famous than I, who warn that it will come a time when - Greece style, but worse - after having taken 27 percent on the current accounts, as happened in Cyprus and as they foresee the European norms, the Italian debt will be classified with a negative judgment; the next step will be: who gave gave, who had had. I would be sorry, because it would be the end of this form of civilization and also of democracy. Having said that, since I see and feel that there is discontent, the people I know ask me (be patient, Deputy Minister Misiani): when do you throw them down? We do not have the numbers, we do not succeed, until the next elections, with all the risks that the parties can take, including Forza Italia. I met an amateur designer, who is a dear friend, and I asked him if he would please draw me a very showy dress to bring to the Chamber (maybe I also give it to some friends), so that, when the pitchforks arrive - or what they will call - they can identify me and save me, because I care about my life. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u21	Senator Fusco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government (Member of the Government), we are here to discuss a decree-law that this branch of Parliament has not even had time to see. The Senate of the Republic, a symbol of popular sovereignty, is forced to debate a flash in view of a vote of confidence, yet another, on a measure that deals with everything, which contains more than 250 articles. The representatives of the citizens are forced to witness yet another abuse by a government and a President of the Council who promised unified networks, in his various speeches, to want to parliamentariansize everything. At unified networks and through the various direct Facebook accused the opposition of not wanting to cooperate, saying that instead he was open to listen to the proposals. On the other hand, the proposals we make in Parliament are rejected, so that perhaps they can be included as amendments by the Government or in the various plans that the thousands of task forces appointed during quarantine have proposed. This time they didn't even look at the proposals. This is a measure that costs more than EUR 80 billion, which came at second reading a week after its expiry: no deepening in the Commission, no debate. It is curious that this attitude comes from one side and from a party that for a year and a half has torn its clothes in the name of institutional etiquette and, on the other side, from the party that, when it was in opposition, shouted in Parliament accusing the government of dictatorship of all confidence placed. We are at over twenty trusts in ten months of government: record records. Congratulations very much. With regard to the issue of defence, I repeat what we have tried to say as a Group in the few seconds devoted to the analysis of the measure in the Commission. In the decree-law there are some articles that have a more direct interest for the Armed Forces and, in general, for the field of defense; among these certainly must be mentioned those concerning personnel and military health and those pertaining to the means and the heritage. We have told you this and we repeat it to you: the funds are insufficient, as we have mentioned on several occasions. The Armed Forces have played, since the beginning of the emergency, a fundamental role for the management of the state of crisis, as well as the commitment produced on the whole health front. Let us remember the enormous contribution of military doctors and nurses who have been sent to help the health workers in service in the areas most affected by the epidemic. We remember the soldiers who have worked to set up several field hospitals on national territory, which have remained fundamental in support for the current health crisis. Let us not forget, moreover, the enormous role that our military have also played in the management and control of the territory, contributing to the containment of the epidemic. Let us remember, when some politicians of a specific political part, in the future, when this epidemic will be definitively defeated and forgotten, will address our military insulting them and not understanding what they really serve. Let's remember these days, when everyone wanted the military on the street. Those days when the armed forces and police forces of this country, all too often mistreated, always by the usual known, represented a source of security and tranquillity for all. In the light of all this, as we have already told you, the funds you have allocated are insufficient, and the whole measure is inadequate. Do you know why the funds are insufficient? Because part of this majority, not all, but a large part, is ideologically opposed to the Armed Forces and our military. We see it in some questions filed; we see it in interviews where representatives of this majority speak of dual use, conversion and degrowth; we see it in the weird drafts of law and resolution. Until you begin to see the Armed Forces and, in general, the defence sector as a highly strategic sector for our country, even from the point of view of industrial relaunch, in the field of research and development, you will not be able to do the good of Italy. Aiming at defence means focusing on the future of our country system: until you abandon this ideological hatred we will not be able to move forward. For this reason, the only solution for the good of the country is for you to step aside. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u23	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u24	Mr President, in these few minutes I will not retrace the many measures contained in the decree to relaunch public education, university, research, cultural heritage and activities. Instead, I would like to focus on the future, on how much more to do. This is because much has been done. Significant resources have been injected. It is right, however, that in this House we look to the future, also strong of the hearings held in the 7th Commission in the Senate precisely on the impact that the Covid emergency had on the culture sector. This sector, as has already been mentioned here in this House, is one of the sectors most affected, especially in the live entertainment sector. We know, in fact, that the live show is an area in which there is the proximity of the people who together participate in the show, also as spectators, in a synergy and in an energy union with the actors and musicians who offer the cultural product. So, the sector has been seriously affected. It is precisely from the live performance I am giving birth, therefore, remembering that, not only will it be necessary to extend the measures foreseen in this emergency period also for the future, to accompany these workers out of the emergency, but it will also be necessary to make an intervention that we have been waiting for many years, that is a reform path intended for the workers of the show, that takes care of the welfare of the workers of the live show in all its meanings (theatre, dance, music, cinema and audiovisual) and that takes into account the typicality of these workers. This typicality emerged in the course of this emergency, where we had to put in place appropriate measures for the support of this category of workers, also to get out of the precariousness and, therefore, to provide for forms of stabilisation, where necessary and where possible. Then, surely, we need to focus on the ordinary and extraordinary maintenance of our artistic heritage. I had already reminded the Minister how fundamental it is to think of a national plan of ordinary and extraordinary maintenance, because the country gets in motion even by putting the professions of cultural goods back in motion. These include restorers, for example, who are waiting for legal recognition, valorisation and welfare; they are waiting to get out of the fogs of oblivion and finally be valued. If it is true, as a ministerial decree of 2015, that the use of places of culture is an essential service, then we must also think about the realization of essential levels of performance in cultural goods, because it is useless to remind us that culture and its use are an essential service, but then we forget to do all that is necessary for it to be such. The small, micro and medium-sized enterprises in the cultural sector of the third sector must be accompanied and supported, because they are the ones that guarantee us the cultural offer and its spread throughout the national territory, outside the large aggregation centres. This is fundamental at a time like this when we have a considerable need to keep the social fabric together and to provide positive places, activities and alternatives to overcome the human, psychological and personal tragedies that, playing hard, are accompanied in this emergency. So, culture comes to the rescue again. Finally, we must remember to strengthen the museum system, the small museums, to enhance research and all the professions related to it in this field. Moreover - and here I go back to the fund for culture, to the involvement of Cassa depositi e prestiti and to the funds of investment - we must be very careful that the profit does not enter tense in the culture; already the minister had feared this and I know that it is well aware of it. Culture is right to support itself, but first of all it generates an intangible wealth that - I repeat for the umpteenth time - is the one that causes us in the world to be appreciated for our arts, for our creativity and for what we call Made in Italy (and the source comes from there), but also for our personal, intellectual and spiritual growth, which must be the first objective beyond profits. Therefore, we need to be very, very careful that we do not get to profit dynamics in the world of culture, because they would be deleterious and we would lack a great intangible wealth, if subordinate to logics that do not belong to culture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u25	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not repeat here that this decree-law, because of its complexity and full body, was to be divided between the House and the Senate: more than twice as much as a budget law as an appropriation; more than twice as much as articles to be examined and amended in just two months, as is certainly right for a decree-law. But let us remember that Parliament usually works from October to December on the budget law. So today we have a provision, modified by the House in a reckless way, and confidence in the Senate in full speed so as not to cause the decree-law to lapse. Congratulations indeed to Government and majority. [[Applause.]] But we in the League have not renounced to present our vision of relaunch here in the Senate, as has already happened in the House. It must remain to the acts that for the League this decree, albeit modified to the Chamber, is and remains a complication of articles with so many rain interventions without an overall vision. Or perhaps there is a vision, a vision that does not serve Italy, but serves only to please. In this measure there is a combination of marchettes, interventions to voting categories that have little or nothing to do with the revival. I have seen an amendment, which has remained a dead letter in the budget law - I thought that this amendment had been removed from the budget law for modesty -, now beautifully inserted in Article 180 under the disguises of a title with a meritorious intent: "Restoro ai Comuni per la recensione di ritorni delle taxe di soggiorno" and other provisions". Of course: we are talking about residence tax and the touristic municipalities have been seriously affected by this crisis in terms of revenue planned for the budget, which obviously will never enter. The intention is therefore certainly meritorious, unless we discover that then other provisions in paragraphs 3 and 4 reflect the amendment already marked in its time in the budget law as sanatoria on the crimes of Count's father-in-law (remember that it was the amending proposal 87.10). [[Applause.]] It is branded again by the newspapers as a re-launched-suocero decree, which with this intervention can thus clean up its criminal record. In order to really re-launch this country, therefore, we do not need marchettes, but a few things done well: simplification...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u27	Senator Ferrero, of course, the term you have just mentioned is not appropriate for this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u28	Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). I quote what the papers say. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It does not matter who quotes: if he assumes personal responsibility for it, it is not enough to quote what others say. Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). All right, Mr. President, I take responsibility for that. [[Applause.]] To re-launch this country, we really need simplification...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u29	I do not want to interrupt, but this is the same as the other speeches: I have just pointed out that personal responsibility means that, if the Presidency takes up a term which does not belong to this House, it is addressed to those who say so, it is not enough to say that they are responsible for it. He takes responsibility for it when he makes specific accusations to others, as he has done, so the Presidency in this case, as for others, does not allow it. I'm sorry to interrupt you, Senator Ferrero, but of course the time will be recovered.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u30	For this country it is therefore necessary to simplify - today the relevant decree-law has been published in the Official Journal - but this provision should have started already giving a good example. Instead, you have produced a complex structure, with measures that can only be accessed by those who can afford to pay a professional. We needed a suspension and an extension of the payments of IRPEF and IRES income taxes: on the contrary, we proposed a white year not to vex the Italians with taxes and taxes, a reduction in taxation and its simplification; our amendments proposed flat tax, extensions, extensions of the dry coupon and many other proposals, all punctually rejected. What do you propose? Tax credits everywhere, with endless conditionality: instruments that are far from slim, not to mention that they can be used by those who have to pay taxes, which has therefore produced income and profits. But what are the benefits? The Italians are without income and we propose to split taxes? There is the sale of the credit, you will tell me: of course, another mechanism not easy to apply; Article 119 is an example of enormous expectation given to the Italians, with a disconcerting complication and indeterminateness. You redo your house at zero cost, this is the message: yes, but there are energy classes and ACE, the offices are still closed, the land registry does not answer, the banks know little or nothing and the small builders are penalized. Do you realize the complexity? In addition, the Government tends to extend the state of emergency, forcing the country to paralysis again for many months and preventing citizens from taking advantage of these measures, which in their complexity will feed the already huge pile of litigation caused by subsequent interpretations made by the Ministries, cumulation that in Italy is enriched with every new law that comes out of these classrooms. Do you know who will earn 10 percent of 110 percent, because unique ones can be large with tax credit? The usual notes: the banks, but not the small ones, which will also have problems of incapience, but the big ones, which make useful and plan to make them in the coming years. Italians do not need alms, as well as companies, who need to share, thanks to simple laws, understandable and usable by all citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u32	Mr President, representatives of the Government, undersecretary Misiani, register with regret the absence of Minister Catalfo, being the decree under consideration mainly based on the subject of social shock absorbers: about one third of the sums allocated by the decree-law, equal to 55 billion euros, never so abundant, has in fact gone to cover the Cassa Integrazione and the allowances of those who could not work, because it was imposed not to do so. It must be said, however, that the blocking of activities also had a bearing on the entrepreneurs, who anticipated the integration fund to their employees, while also draining part of that liquidity, which would have to be used for restarting, if that happens. Forza Italia expresses in fact great worry about the end of the block of the dismissals, extended from the initial sixty days to five months: it must understand how many enterprises still closed will reopen, if they will find a market able to compensate the losses precedence and if there will be the necessary cash flows to keep open the economic activities. Moreover, the extension of dismissals remains a legal vacuum - and I would have liked to say this to the Minister - which runs from 15 May to 19 May and will have to be covered, in order to avoid the causes of dismissal between workers and entrepreneurs. In addition, there are anticipations of an extension of the ban on dismissal until the end of the year, accompanied by the extension of the support instruments. In this way, however, businesses do not depart. To the enterprises certainly has not arrived that mountain of resources, that it was destined or that it had been announced by the Government with such emphasis, place that the main measure to which they have benefited has been the moratorium of the loans and the loans already existing, of which entrepreneurs and families have taken advantage, in order not to have to drain ulterior liquidity, in the months in which they had no cash income. These are late payments, which entrepreneurs will have to honour, together with those taxes, which have been extended only for a few months. Mr Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, helping businesses means helping workers, keeping businesses closed or restricting their activities means not being able to guarantee their previous jobs. [[Applause]] It is not only a question of the company's revenues, but of revenues, which for the most part serve to pay salaries, given the increasingly narrow profit margins for companies. In our conception, of Forza Italia and of all the center-right, "enterprise" is equal to "work." [[Applause]] Even creating fears, with a continuous state of emergency, which depresses the level of consumer confidence, means limiting business activity and maintaining jobs. This is also demonstrated by the fall in foreign investment, due to a sense of distrust towards the Italian market, which is taking place during this period, as also reported • Il Sole 24 ORE • this morning. We note positively the rebound of the manufacturing activity recorded in June, with a physiological increase after three months of collapses, but I would like to remember that the manufacture represents a third or even less - it is also said a sixth - of the product of the Italian economy. All those sectors of the service sector, which make up three quarters of the product and labour force of our nation, are still suffering. It must be said that an emergency income has also been introduced, to be allocated to families most affected by the lack of income from work, which ended up squealing with that of citizenship, which absorbs more than €7 billion. That allowance, given to those who should seek a job, seemed even more unfair than the one given to those who had the job, but could not receive the salary, even if they wanted to work because of the closure of the activities. In any case, this "short" period of forced closure - which we hope will end soon - has shown that we cannot live on subsidies; the subsidy must be temporary, as Mr Catalfo finally says, in a note yesterday, too. Perhaps it has come to the consideration that there are no resources, dear Undersecretary Misiani, to support for a long time or an indefinite time the demands that come from the recipients of income of citizenship or other subsidies. We need tools for rapid integration into the world of work, which the measure that established the income of citizenship did not foresee, or perhaps predicted, but with an ideological vision that did not analyze the difficulty of meeting supply and demand for work through a public agency and employment centers. In the same way, it was an error a decree-law that, in the name of dignity, gave a subsidy to tens of thousands of workers who could see their contract extended, in order to insist on having to make the contract indefinitely. There were no instruments and this serious crisis is proving it more and more. It would also be an unforgivable mistake, in the wake of an increasingly weak government pact, if we were to introduce minimum wage rules which would mark a further slowdown in the creation of new jobs. I would have liked to tell the Minister that I do not see him present but that he will certainly read the speech, or maybe I will have a direct meeting with her. Jobs are lacking in many sectors and are difficult to find, as the continuous bulletins from the chambers of commerce show us, according to which there is a shortage of 262,000 jobs in July 2020 and 622,000 jobs in September this year. That's what I'd say to Minister Catalfo. It is therefore a question of dealing with training policies that the State must direct by listening to schools, universities and businesses, which - we repeat - are those that know the needs of the productive world and the professionalism required. There is a lack of an organic vision of the world of work and of the tools to facilitate job creation. The Minister of Labour cannot become the Minister of Aids, but he must do everything to ensure that the dignity of people is entitled to have a role in society. The decree-law to our examination, which directs money in a thousand quarters, does not solve the problems of the shortage of the professional figures mentioned above, as well as the regularization of migrants, inserted with impropitude in this decree-law, has demonstrated its complete ineffectiveness. The rule intended to regulate foreign farm workers is having very little success, as it represents about 10% of the requests for regularization received. This rule, on the other hand, has been used almost exclusively to regulate caregivers - we will see in the coming months if permanently - but it has left farms without labour, forcing them to leave a large part of the seasonal crops on the fields. As a last argument I would like to address the subject of public work, considering that, with a rule included in this decree-law, about half of the workers of the public administration have been allowed to deal with smart working for another six months. The logical deduction is that perhaps it would be appropriate to verify the work carried out in a serious way; then, to put hand to the needs of staff in the public sector by gradually reducing - not increasing - the organic plants of the public administration to the actual needs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Floris. FLORIS (FIBP-UDC). In conclusion, waiting for a new title as a result of the next decree-law, after the Italian care measures, liquidity and recovery, we hope that we will arrive at an organic vision of interventions and resources, even European, to be used really to restart our economy. The revival, however, cannot go through a new centralization, or worse a statization, but wants to become protagonists the many Italian intelligences that must be able to try to put their enthusiasm and their talent at the service of our nation. [[Applause.]] Mr President, as I am dealing more closely with you, I would ask you to be able to deliver the full text of my speech.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u33	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u34	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u35	Mr President, in the few minutes at my disposal I will touch on just a few of the points concerning the relaunch decree, concerned that many of the measures, written according to the criterion of complication, remain only proclamations or are activated in biblical times. Here are some examples. In Title IV, Article 105- bis (Fund for the Income of Freedom for Women Victims of Violence), paragraph 1, states: "In order to contain the serious economic effects deriving from the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 in particular as regards women in conditions of greater vulnerability, as well as to promote, through economic independence, paths of autonomy and emancipation of women victims of violence in condition of poverty" resources are allocated by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, on proposal of the Minister for Equal Opportunities and the Family, in agreement with the Minister of Labour and Social Policies, subject to agreement in a unified conference. It is precisely the reference to the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that worries me, because, to give an example, in the financial maneuver an amendment of the League which provided for the obligation to expose the anti-violence number 1522, shared with the whole Parliament and the whole majority, has become law in the last budget law, but the amendment, then included in the text, stated that the contents, the languages, the modalities of exposure in the public establishments of this cartel will have to be defined by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, within ninety days of the entry into force of the budget law. Nothing has yet been done. It is true that there was the coronavirus, but even the newest of officials can prepare for the President a type of sign to be displayed in the premises, also because there was closure, lockdown and women who were already victims of violence found themselves in far worse situations. Since you fill your mouths with speeches on the protection of victims of violence, why do you insist on video surveillance in childhood schools and RSAs to do nothing? Do you not care for our children and our elders? [[Applause]] In the relaunch decree we are talking about guaranteeing and encouraging the adoption of all the necessary measures to protect safety in the workplace, but does the safety of our loved ones, our children and our elderly not count for anything? Let me take another example, which relates to my Verona, but which is also true for all production activities at national level. I refer to Lignum, the furniture of Verona, a district recognized by the Veneto Region, one of the many production districts present in our beautiful country, from North to South. Wood, this living material, is very well known by the Municipalities of the Provinces of Verona, Padua and Rovigo, because they have been working for about a century in those extraordinary places of material culture that are the workshops and artisan workshops, some of which are truly avant-garde. Here was born the furniture in style of the Verona plain, from the hands of the craftsmen, who with their 1,200 companies and their 6,600 employees, have brought their know-how to do all over the world and with an export to 53 countries, giving life to an economy that has been strong and wants to return to it. In order to be strong, however, the economy of the various production districts, from North to South, needs perhaps simply simplification, because it is true that with the I throw again decree some measures have been envisaged, but our artisans, the enterprises, the entrepreneurs ask for a simple formula, that is, President, according to the current situation: less taxes, less bureaucracy. That's the real raise. [[Applause]] The firepower so much praised by President Count, with galactic injections, as managed by you, is likely to turn into a photonic suppository. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u36	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u37	Mr President, I would also like to address President Alberti Casellati through him, because I believe that the first duty of a Member of Parliament who intervenes on a third decree-law on which we are in fact prevented from working and acting is to appeal to the Presidencies of the two Chambers to ensure that this does not happen again. I consider it unacceptable, inadequate, inconvenient, shameful that the Senate of the Republic on a third decree-law of such importance is deprived in fact of the possibility to work, to express itself and to improve vital and essential measures for our country. Therefore, Mr President, I transmit to you with force, with impetus, with sincerity this message asking you to be the last time; I ask you to interpret not only the will of Brothers of Italy, but that of all honest MPs (and I believe that they are really all) who can no longer be discriminated against in this way, to see delegitimized in this way the rules of democracy and the Italian Constitution. Having said that, Mr President, on the subject, I said that it is the third decree-law, that it is setting up a quarter, but unfortunately our negative assessments cannot change the tenor and in fact we do not expect anything better from the next measure coming; in recent days we have also read the emeritus Professor Cassese to cut off the next decree-law simplifications. Today, however, on the catwalk that is granted to us, as I said before, we deal with the decree-law relaunch. How much we need to relaunch in this country, Mr President, Mr. Representative of the Government. The measure is worth 55 billion, which have been authorized thanks to the sense of responsibility of the Right Center, which has allowed the majority to have resources equal to those of two or three ordinary budget laws to try to respond to this emergency. It would be easy for me to attack, make demagogy, remember tips, tips, scooters, advice to the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of Economics and Finance, business class tickets; but I can fly over because these inadequacys, these things that in the past legislatures would have blown up the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, I think are not as serious as the lack of political strategy, the lack of vision in measures that are actually nothing but a rainy distribution of money without a strategy. This is the biggest problem we have; as a businessman, as a professional I note that a strategy is missing: it took two or three clear and strong lines of intervention to respond to the needs of the country, not money distributed to the right and to the lack, not tips or tips more or less electoral, more or less wanted, given to everyone to not give to anyone. It's the country that claims it and you haven't been able to answer it. It needed courage, lords of the majority; it did not serve 50 billion, but many more and could be found. I would like to make some comments on this. In recent days we have read a research of the study center of the Association artisans and small enterprises CGIA of Mestre, in which it has been objectivato like today the income from dependent work, that is the paychecks, are inferior to pensions. This is a drama for the country, because at a time when the productive part, that is, those who work, is significantly less than those who rightly receive pension assistance, the prospects are rather negative. In addition, the production of this Government and this majority, from the Count 1 government to the Count 2 government, has focused mainly on forms of welfare, from the income of citizenship to the income of emergency, to arrive of course to the natural Cassa Integrazione; however, when the forms of assistance exceed the interventions on production, those aimed at creating business and work, we cannot give a future to our young people and to our country. I would like to make one point: have you thought, gentlemen of the majority, that the liquidity of our families, which lies in the banks of our country, is estimated at around 1,200 billion? I don't know if you've thought about it, but I'm afraid if you have, you've done so by thinking of an asset. That is not the way I point out, but it is to refer to this money in order to convey it to the State and the public debt in order to reduce more and more the dependence of our public debt also from abroad. Above all, I believe that this liquidity must be directed towards the capital market, those markets that are capable of creating capital for companies and thus creating investment. You're not doing any of this. There are no fiscal facilitation policies in place and tax leverage is not used in this direction. We have an Italian bag that is featured in all specialist newspapers like the taillight of Europe; it is the bag that suffered the most even during the period of Covid-19. It's a bag that can't really be impulse and gasoline for our businesses. We have a Consob - we also saw it yesterday in the Committee of Inquiry into Banks - which in fact was not able to prevent billionaire losses to companies and savers, but which happened to favour some speculators. And what does the government do to intervene on the Italian stock exchange? What do you do to control how Consob probably didn't do everything she could and had to do to protect our businesses and savers? On these great issues I would like the majority present and I would also like to clash with those who think differently from me, but I am sure that then we could give a future to the country and our businesses. On the issue of liquidity, the one that companies lack, why have not been accepted the appeal and proposals aimed at taxing, for the purposes of direct taxes, those financial instruments that would allow and allow our companies to make liquidity? I'm talking about the lease back, I'm talking about rent to buy and those tools that would be in pole position to give money to our Italian companies, but in order to facilitate them you should have detaxed them, as has been requested by so many associations of the financial world and the company. None of this. It is not detaxed, because you do not want to use the tax lever, you do not want to use the only instrument or one of the few instruments really suitable to restore the economy and to revive the companies. Instead of being charitable, let us make companies want to grow, invest, work and put them in a position to do so. There is no need for tips, small tax credits, the ridiculous things that concerned tourism. The "Sun 24 ORE" today speaks of 40,000 companies at risk of failure in tourism and you plan to respond to tourism with tax credit for people who have an ISEE up to 40,000? Are you kidding me? In conclusion, Mr President, allow me one more minute to remind you of another category that you have completely forgotten, which is that of professionals. After having discriminated against her in the decree-law liquidity and in the care Italy, after having discriminated her by providing income limits only for them, only for professionals, in order to have the subsidy, you discriminated her also in this decree in a shameful way - I say it as a professional and with pride - denying only to Italian professionals, to the 2.300.000 professional orders, that contribution to lost funds that is rightly recognized to the enterprises and the other self-employed. I repeat: 2.300.000 professionals who are not entitled to what was theirs, i.e. the tax credit. You have done nothing to block a smart working within the public sector that is penalising the entire country. Lawyers go to court and they can't work because there's no one in the gate. We accountants go to the Revenue Agency, but we have to use the phone to make the accessions and negotiations, because we don't find the employees, which perhaps - as the CGIL says, which often inspires you - we also have to give the voucher while they are at home. Meanwhile, craftsmen, traders and self-employed workers have closed shop and employees in the private sector are at risk of dismissal. Are these the answers you think you're giving the country to grow up? Dear friends, I conclude by hoping that there will be a renunciation (I really hope so because the country needs it). The previous speakers feared an October or November of difficulties and Mr Lamorgese made it clear that we are in danger of social tensions. It is in your responsibility to give answers that are no longer of distribution to all, but of growth for the entire country. For this we need and for this Brothers of Italy there is and will be only if you know how to be concrete, proactive and truly bound to the only interest that must move us, that is, the recovery of our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u38	Senator Saponara is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u39	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, many people are full of the culture and value of education, but what is being invested in these important areas is always little compared to the revenue they can generate and their social value. There is no exception to the so-called relaunch decree, which has reserved for the education and culture sectors a share of investments comparable to a host, as evidenced by the hearings just concluded in the Committee on Public Education, Cultural Heritage. A host - I said - absolutely insufficient to value what should be one of the driving flywheels of our economy, because investing in culture means promoting tourism; investing in education means preparing the new generations and young people to hold the reins of our country; investing in universities and research means being competitive with other European countries; an investment in this sense means enhancing the great potential of Italy. Instead, with this decree (which I raise only has the name) Italy - once again - does not make a leap forward, but remains behind the other European countries. And - what is worse - the decree-law in question leaves behind many who work in the artistic and cultural sector. [[Applause]] Yet we are talking about EUR 55 billion, a figure equal to that of two budget laws. We are talking about 266 articles collected in a tome of nearly 1,000 pages and resulting from the study and work of 470 experts, as well as Ministers and Subsecretaries. We are talking about a decree-law that gave us hope, but that ultimately disappointed everyone and - as if that were not enough - there is no longer even time to correct it, because it expires in a few days, and here in the Senate came armored and nothing could be added to what was fired from the Chamber of Deputies. Despite the many improved amendments tabled by the opposition (1,500, to be precise) and the proclamations by the majority of a collaboration with the opposition forces, in the end, in the transition to the Chamber of Deputies, a few crumbs and small change were granted, accepting only very few amendments, including - and we are proud of this - that of the funds for equal schools which, thanks to the perseverance and perseverance of the League, were finally doubled. [[Applause]] On the other hand, as regards the areas covered by the Commission's public education, cultural heritage, issues relating to the precariousness of teachers and ATA staff and beyond have remained unresolved. In this decree there is no definition of a framework for the redevelopment of schools in the light of the imminent needs linked to the reopening in September. There is no necessary liquidity fund for culture to ensure financial support for cultural enterprises. There is no state guarantee in favour of insurance companies to cover the risks arising from Covid-19 for film and theatrical productions, since the insurance companies refuse to compensate for the damage caused by interruption of cultural production caused by the epidemic. There is no forecast of interventions for the civic museums and for the strengthening of the attractiveness of the small villages through the restoration and recovery of urban spaces, historical and cultural buildings. There is no proper financing of the fund for relaunching the national sports system. Above all, there is a lack of strategic vision and reprogramming of the school sector and university disciplines. It lacks the courage to detach itself from that European rigorism which, with the cuts imposed, has had such a negative effect on a sector such as culture, which is the driving force behind our economy. We have tried to make our contribution to the measure by presenting an alternative opinion to the majority in the Commission yesterday, highlighting some of the things that have not been done with this decree-law, some issues that have not been addressed. Mr Government representative, it was embarrassing to see that some of our comments coincided with those contained in the majority opinion. How, then, can an opinion be given in favour of a decree-law in which the same majority finds shortcomings? How can we speak of revival when the Secretary-General of the CGIL himself says that museums, archives and libraries have difficulty opening up to the public? The cinemas and theatres do not know if and how to continue an activity that however is halved. And again, for the workers of the artistic and cultural sector, the government intervened, but the measures are still insufficient. To sum up - and I conclude - with this measure, whose delay is indisputable, we are witnessing a series of spot interventions that run behind the problems, without resolving them, exactly as when we patch up a road that would need instead of a uniform asphalting, a bit like the roads of Rome. And as long as there is this running after the problems, without a strategy, without really being able to anticipate them, there can never be a real revival for our country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u40	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr Misiani, ladies and gentlemen, this time, to tell the truth, I had hoped for it. When I saw the title, I thought: this time we are. In fact some doubt had come to us about the so-called decree dignity; the other names seemed little exciting to us, but when I saw the word "relaunch," I said: it is the good time, we succeeded; a whisper of dignity and respect for the Italians. And then, after a great reading that, as you well know, has changed several times, I resigned. If you had to make a reasoning related to the newspapers, the headliner is a phenomenon, but who makes the article a tragedy. I am sorry that, as always, the discussions take place in Semi-desert classrooms, with the benches of the government abandoned to the capable hands of the undersecretary Misiani, that if he had still been in opposition, in the Commission he would have said much worse than what I am about to say. To the 266 original articles we have added another 80, 150 more full-bodied paragraphs and, here again, we expected an important solution and an assumption of responsibility from Parliament. This is the first figure, then I arrive at the numbers: a commitment of the majority to be able to discuss the so-called decree relaunch in the Senate, too, completely. I remind you - I remind the friends of the majority who are not here today because they have other things to do - that the 55 billion provided for by the deviation that was voted by Parliament, if there had been no opposition, there would have been no. If there had been no opposition vote, there would have been no deviation. It was also possible to collect the consensus of the opposition because, among serious people, we had said that the decree-law had to be of everyone, had to enter into the merit of the demands that all the political forces representing the entire country can signal and, consequently, bring true, concrete and real contributions regarding a political part that no longer represents the majority of Italians today. Well, exactly the opposite has happened. Even the majority has tabled thousands of amendments to the House, and I say this to make you understand how significant that decree was, to arrive in the Senate yesterday and receive the opinions of the Commissions in haste and fury. Last night there was a distressing appeal from our group leader in the Budget Committee, Senator Pichetto Fratin, who said that we saw the decree pass through because we could not even engage in the discussion of the amendments we have tabled. Today there is the general debate, then there will be explanations of vote and tomorrow morning we will vote on confidence, because if you do not put trust it is not said that the decree to our examination passes, because the companies and citizens who are outside have understood that it is yet another scam. In the field of tourism that someone mentioned - I have always dealt with it and I have responsibility for it for the party of Forza Italia - I remind you that, between direct and indirect, there are about seven million people. This is how it will work this year, indeed it is working like this: those who work 12 months are working six, those who work six will work four, those who work four will not work and you will find yourself paying, we will find ourselves paying because we are tax-paying citizens, fund integration sine die, social shock absorbers sine die. In that case, too, we proposed that everyone be sent back to work, that they give the integration fund as a dowry and that the employer pay the difference in such a way as to have an additional income of taxes and maintain the level of employment and the spending capacity of the Italian people. We are talking about seven million people: a sector worth 13 to 25% of gross domestic product. You took a quarter of the gross domestic product and threw it into the toilet. [[Applause]] There are from 40,000 to 60,000 businesses, I'm talking about hotels, they don't know what to do, and 30,000 businesses for bathing tourism, as well as thousands and thousands of shops. We told you to exempt categories C and D, not C3 and D2 from the IMU. What do tour operators do? They look and it's okay for them to pay for the differences? Companies that do not fall under category D2 what do they do? Do they pay the IMU as if it were nothing? On June 30 we started finishing the extensions. We have to pay taxes. Are there any taxes to pay? No, do you charge us the taxes of 2019 as if we had cashed in 2020? I think you're out of the world. You laugh and look at me, but you have to be ashamed. [[Applause]] You're people who have always seen others do something in life. VAT matches are the backbone of this country. You abandoned the tourist buses, as if they were ghosts; for 88 million euros you changed them at the last minute saying that there was no coverage from the State Accounting. I'm indignant for you, I'm worried about people who won't get or lose their jobs permanently, and I'm very worried about the future too. Turn around Rome, if you don't have time to go elsewhere, and look at how many shops are closed or how many hotels have not reopened. Look! You made fun of us in tax credit. You told those who never had a vacation to go and do it, like they were gonna find the money under the floor mat. These people are even more angry than before. You must be ashamed. You will never get our vote on this and we will fight. We have a clear and clear position to try to improve things, but at least allow us to do so and do not always put the question of trust. See that someone else, besides you, might even have some better idea, especially if in life he has always worked and not looked, like most of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u42	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u43	Mr President, I would not have wished to speak, because I am honestly struck by the substantial futility which you have reduced to this Parliament, conceived by the constituent Fathers as a place of dialogue and mutual enrichment and transformed into a vow for the posthumous legitimacy of your decrees. Then I read article 105-c of the decree-law and decided to speak, so that people would know and to future memory. Under this rule, EUR 4 million is allocated for a special assistance programme for victims of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. Do we want to talk about discrimination? I have written to the Observatory for the Protection against Discrimination (OSCAD), which is the body of the Police and the Carabinieri delegated to verify cases of discrimination. I was told that there are 33 cases per year of discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. If mathematics is not an opinion, 4 million euros divided by 33 cases per year means 121,000 euros per case. Do we want to talk about discrimination? During the same period, two million families have fallen below the poverty line, so you will certainly have allocated EUR 240 billion, to give the same sum to each family that has fallen below the poverty line. Did you? No way. In the same period, 150,000 small and medium-sized enterprises faced the coronavirus crisis on their own, with their bare hands. You will certainly have allocated EUR 18 billion to give each of the small and medium-sized enterprises 120,000 a year. Absolutely not; on the contrary, on July 20 you also pay the IRPEF deposit. During the same period we hit the bottom with the worst birth rate in one hundred and two years; you will certainly have allocated the same amount for the 435,000 new shrieks born in 2019, to give a hope to the country. You will then have allocated EUR 52 billion to the newly born. Absolutely not. The truth is that it is you who discriminate, covering with gold those who are ideologically sympathetic to you and abandoning to their destiny families and enterprises. [[Applause]] But at least that money had really gone to poor people, more or less presumably discriminated against (although it would be explained that by discrimination you also mean, for example, the fact that you say that two men cannot adopt a child or that two men cannot rent a woman's uterus and buy a child online; also this for someone is discrimination). At least this money had really gone to poor people and discriminated against; the truth is that, instead, these 120,000 euros each (4 million euros total) went to feed the apparatus that every month, every year, each election builds your political consensus. These are not resources used against discrimination. To use the words of the Secretary of the Zingaretti Democratic Party, who gave an interview on May 20, 2019, they only carry electoral marches in the Council of Ministers. Here, these are electoral marches. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u44	Senator Pillon, I would also like to refer you to a language that is more appropriate to this House. You should have already heard that the quotation from others does not apply to those who speak in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u45	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Then, Mr President, you should also call your secretary. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm addressing you right now. He's enlisted to speak Senator Four. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coronavirus, a planetary tragedy, does not come from the comet Neowise, nor by chance nor by any chance by the work of imaginative conspiracies. It is now established that the current pandemic has as its cause a wrong model of global development, built in recent decades. It is the chronicle of an announced virus: announced by HIV, Mers, Sars, Ebola, Zika. The microscopic enemies are now encircling us. On the other hand, it's their job. It's up to us humans to bury them. The relationship between health and the environment is inevitable. Cursedly, or even criminally, we are destroying our common home. We are disrupting ecosystems: deforestation with severe losses of rainforests, unsustainable agriculture and urbanisation, intensive farms, unlimited mining extractions, polluting industrial processes. Most likely we will be able to counter viruses and bacteria, but not irreversible pollution, loss of biodiversity, global warming. Our crazy race to "badness" has so much impact on biodiversity that it forces different animal species to unnaturally share their habitats. As a result, viruses and bacteria jump easily from species, they arrive in our lungs and, in one day, they travel around the world. Thus, in a few months, the Planet has been driven by the most serious health and socio-economic tragedy of the last hundred years. And he's still in a blizzard. Unfortunately, Italy was the first Western stage of the virus. The fast-declared state of emergency and the equally timely lockdown have greatly mitigated the huge tragedy. The response of the Count Government, based on sound scientific support, was a union of determination, responsibility and effectiveness. Even in the painful tragedy of our loved ones who did not make it (and here, excuse me, my thoughts go to Father Michele, a Mediterranean priest who did not make it and died of coronavirus) many lives have been saved. Be careful: not only lives of our fellow countrymen, because the Italian model of contrast to the virus has been exported all over the world. Other than immunity of flock; other than demential Covid party. Imperial College in London, in a study published in Nature magazine, claims that, without lockdown, there would be more than 650,000 deaths in Italy to date. The worst seems averted, thanks also to the great civic response of the entire Italian people, who well understood that the limitation of individual freedom was functional to collective freedom. Special praise goes to those who have healed the sad pandemic wounds: health workers, civil protection, law enforcement, social volunteering. Thanks to all the workers who have guaranteed a certain normality. Here I like to emphasize the self-denial of the teachers, who have literally had to invent the teaching at a distance. Once again, the sense of duty and the Italian genius have allowed the continuation of the school and academic year. This pandemic crisis is providing us with two extraordinary teachings: no one saves himself, that is, the value of human solidarity, and the need to correct the current models of development. In the "after virus" nothing will have to be more like before: an ecological conversion will need; the models of production and consumption will have to be eco-sustainable, but for real and not only speaking abused and empty words. The words of significance, I would say warriors, for which to fight every moment with honesty, competence and passion to build a virus-proof and just socio-economic model, must be: solidarity, sharing, environment, health, safety, work and social justice, culture, school, scientific research, efficient health system, technological innovation, renewable energy, sustainable mobility. Of course, the pandemic has damaged the weakest and most damaged sectors and severely slowed down the economy. For the humanitarian emergency, the refreshment of the damages and an economic revival were launched two decree-laws with the value of 80 billion euros. With regard to the decree-law in question, I would like to focus only on some measures that intervene with determination, innovation and genius, in order to fulfil the warrior words: 1.5 billion euros destined for civil protection for the Fund for national emergencies for 2020, for an ever more efficient prompt intervention; strengthening of the health system (3.2 billion), for overcoming the critical issues highlighted in the highlight of the pandemic phase; 1.5 billion euros in two years at school, for a safe school system, ready to restart in presence and to modulate more easily in the possible need for a distance teaching. In addition, EUR 1.5 billion to universities and research, of which EUR 250 million to recruit 3,300 university researchers with three-year contracts and 1,000 researchers in public research bodies, and EUR 550 million to finance innovative research projects: minds and funding for technological innovation, a key pillar of the necessary new post-pandemic socio-economic paradigm. Culture and tourism: €2.5 billion. Culture means beauty and, together with tourism, can be a formidable axis of sustainable and sustainable development, given the extraordinary environmental and cultural assets that Italy boasts. Still €300 million for the promotion of sustainable mobility (bike bonuses, scooters and low CO2 vehicles; up to €10,000 for electric cars). Article 119 - fundamental, in my opinion - strengthens the facilities for some energy efficiency interventions and anti-seismic measures on buildings carried out from 1 July 2020 until 31 December 2021 (so-called ecobonus, earthquakebonus, photovoltaic bonuses and electric columns), through a tax credit of 110%, also transferable. Extremely interesting is the possibility to build geothermal air conditioning systems. The National Association of Construction Manufacturers (ANCE) estimates works for 6 billion euros and fallbacks for 21 billion euros and 100,000 jobs. I conclude: the decree-law in question does not snub numbers according to abstruse lists, but draws a clear vision, aimed at combining in a genius way health, safety, solidarity, ecology and economic recovery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u47	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pergreffi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u48	Mr President, listening sometimes serves to understand the real needs. Instead, we do not need to lock ourselves in the palaces and look in the mirror, making robotic announcements or naming hundreds of experts who still wonder what they have done, what they have suggested, for what they have served, apart from delegitimizing Parliament. [[Applause.]] The real country and the real companies needed help and we, responsibly, voted twice the budget deviation and we would have expected a minimum involvement in the choices, not for us but for those who work, for all the categories that tried to make their needs understand, that are not important, are essential! [[Applause.]] Both in the House and in the Senate, we have tabled a number of amendments to improve a measure which, in the light of the facts, is totally inadequate. In the decree-law in conversion there are no suitable measures to allow the immediate unblocking of public investments or measures to simplify the current legislation on public procurement. The planned infrastructural interventions are small and localistic, nor are they integrated in an organic vision of infrastructural development and the resources destined for the purpose are derisory. In the decree-law in conversion there are no measures to solve the chronic problems afflicting the civil motorization offices throughout Italy, unable - even more at this time of emergency - to carry out the driving test in a reasonable time, as well as the periodic review and testing of vehicles, with serious damage to citizens and, consequently, for road safety in general. But you did not accept our proposals to resolve them. We have made proposals for compensation for the damage suffered by aircraft operators. The decree-law under consideration establishes a fund with a budget of 130 million euros for the year 2020, to which however only national operators can access and not even the many foreign operators with operating base in Italy and with a large number of Italian employees, who are completely forgotten. In addition, airport management and handling companies are not allowed access to this fund, both of which are completely excluded from any economic and financial support measure, despite the costs incurred throughout the lockdown phase, in spite of the inactivity and sudden reduction in revenues. There is no provision in the Decree-Law that obliges air carriers to reimburse the consideration paid for travel licences that have not been used because of the emergency, to the detriment of citizens, households and businesses and in clear contrast to the provisions of the Community Regulation and the relevant interpretative guidelines adopted by the European Commission. [[Applause.]] We have made proposals to support the local and regional public passenger transport sector. As a result of the negative effects of the epidemiological emergency, EUR 500 million is allocated to compensate for the reduction of tariff revenues, but for trade associations the necessary resources are just one billion euros. There are no measures to support maritime transport operators. We have put unnecessary and burdensome obligations on businesses in the administration with a plan of home-work travel and mobility manager, as if the companies did not have enough. There is a huge financial inequality between scooters and instead the automotive, an absurd thing: people don't eat with scooters! [[Applause]] Everything will not be okay, however, and everything has not gone well: the signs on which it was written will be okay in the meantime have become rentals; make it clear. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u49	Senator Vallardi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in these four minutes I will talk about agriculture, because it is clear that, if we eat every day, it is thanks to it and above all, if we survived during the lockdown period, it is thanks to our farmers. [[Applause]] , to which, together with doctors and nurses, my great recognition certainly goes, as I think that of the whole House. This agriculture has lived and, above all, is experiencing a difficult period: it is difficult to survive with organic farming in Italy, when we are in strong competition with other countries, which often and willingly behave incorrectly, because from the other parts it is not always produced in a way appropriate to the requirements to which the farmers of our country are subject. I would have expected, therefore, that there would be large investments for Italian agriculture in this relaunch decree, which is in great need of it. I was strongly convinced that there was a lot of money for Italian agriculture in this decree I raise, because, when I heard about firepower of 750 billion euros, I told myself that it was the good time for Italian agriculture. Instead, in the end, we see that Italian agriculture is allocated 1.1 billion euros: it makes me laugh to think that Italian farmers count not a cent of the value of the thought of this country. [[Applause.]] We know very well that, in the face of climate change, that they are obvious and that they have been taken into account throughout the political arc, only with regard to irrigation, which is a fundamental part of innovative agriculture, and to the disasters that occur due to the increasingly frequent floods, due to climate change, the National Association of land improvement, irrigation and irrigation (ANBI) says that it takes €2 billion only for the essential interventions and we have allocated €1 billion and €150 million. This is mocking our farmers and then mocking our future as well. I hope we won't be locked in the house again, but, when we were locked in the house, more than anyone asked, "What am I eating today?" And what do I eat tomorrow?", especially at the beginning of the lockdown, when the government had thought well to close also the vegetable garden, which - I remind everyone - is still the most damaged sector, because for the vegetable garden and for the nursery sector have not been allocated enough money. So I hope that the government will reconsider it, if not with the measure under consideration, perhaps with the next ones. I say it with my heart in my hand and on behalf of all those farmers, who get up every day at 4 or 5 a.m. and come to work maybe until evening, to bring home the minimum income in order to survive. This is absolutely not dignity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u51	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u52	Mr President, representative of the Government, what can be said about a measure on which nothing can be said and nothing can be done? What can be done about a measure, which comes armored from the other side of Parliament, in a system which is now essentially monocameral, which has destroyed the democratic system, so much so that even the President of the Budget Commission, who is certainly not a member of the opposition, has stigmatized this modus operandi? What can be said about a gigantic measure, a measure with a capital "P" which has to be distributed and allocated EUR 55 billion, with 98 implementing decrees and 113 measures? This is a manoeuvre that is worth three and a half times a budgetary manoeuvre, for a total of EUR 55 billion of budgetary deviation. Attention, because this means that every single cent will be used with absolutely discretionary criteria, compared to the priority of choices. There are no chapters imposed, but every single cent will be spent according to the will of the government. This is a measure that will decide on the future of the country, which is coming out now - if the Government will allow it, since it wants to extend it ad libitum - of the state of emergency and that instead of investing on the future, thanks to the funds available, assumes a debt that can never be paid because the debts are paid, if they contract to make investments, since without investments, but focusing everything on current expenditure, with bonus spots, will be like throwing money from the window, that they will not produce and will not produce wealth and raise, but that will be an unnecessary waste. If they lend me money and, once I get out of here, I use it to buy a purse or to go to the hairdresser, I can never return it. Is the concept clear? It could be said a lot, but words are of little or no use, in front of people who will lose their jobs, in front of completely forgotten sectors, in front of entrepreneurs who cry at night, not only for themselves, but for their employees and for them cling their teeth. [[Applause]] , drawing on their personal heritage, anticipating a fund, which has not yet arrived for many. I get goose bumps as I speak, because I still have my eyes in front of me, highlighted by the masks, by the tourist and school transporters I met on Saturday, together with my colleague Mallegni, with bus stops, with webs on the wheels, to witness the paralysis of Italy. I feel responsible, personally responsible, because I represent so many, hundreds, thousands of citizens that you gag today. I'd like to see the government meet the workers eyes in the eyes; I'd like to see Conte come out of the screen and speak in public, in the flesh, in a square. [[Applause.]] But for this it takes courage, not the courage shown coming to Bergamo, in my city, in the night, without even remembering the name of Alzano and Nembro, the countries sifted by the virus and subject of responsibility, when we know well that the military were there for days and it is the Government that sends the military, not the Region, sent them by the Government. [[Applause.]] And he didn't decide. It is the same courage that wants us to kill the school, the skeleton of a country, entrusting to Doctor Arcuri, Mr. Masks, safety and restart. Dr. Arcuri, who took away the masks produced in Bergamo; go ask where they come from the masks that were sent to Civil Protection and that have never returned to Bergamo! [[Applause]] And what do you want to do today? He wants to buy ergonomic benches demonstrating the incompetence of those who have never entered a class - I am a teacher and therefore I allow myself - but also of those who do not remember when in school - do you remember him? They'd split the desks to do the checks. It takes so little: you divide the benches, one per bench and you have already done the distance. But no, come on, let's throw out more money because what we care about, we won the lottery, whatever! You would like to set up theatres and tents to accommodate students and instead reject the alliance with the peer school that would make available its own spaces; so much so, who cares; you live in hyperuranium, you are completely slaves in the enclosure of archaic ideologies, therefore, Parliament gagged, citizens gagged. In fact, worse, Parliament let us speak like Cassandra. But we will fight with all our strength not to let in the horse that is outside our doors and that has a name and a surname: it is called China. So, usual waste of useless paper - as I say from the Parent Company of the Environment Commission - usual waste of money that is dispersed in a thousand streams. This government does not relaunch anything, it does not relaunch the South, it does not restart and it does not help the North, it does not facilitate entrepreneurs and get back on the market, it does not give prospects to workers, it lacks a really decisive intervention, there is no vision, there is no perspective, only a discharge of continuous and systematic responsibility. Still, it wouldn't be hard. It would be enough - I know - to focus on two or three strategic sectors that draw everything else; to restart, for example, building, automotive, tourism, and consequently move the recycling sector, that of transport, food, events, culture, entertainment, the working world, professionals, and so on, in a beautiful waterfall of real revival. Not to mention agriculture, which does not even include vouchers: then we cry, because we let foreign workers in, but agriculture not even the voucher system. On the other hand, there will be a raise, of course, but it will be the revival of assistantism: taxes for those who work, free money for those who do not work. I want to stress this again: taxes for those who work, free money for those who do not work. [[Applause.]] Let's not be surprised, then, if the country goes into recession. What's the government doing? It doesn't matter, with a creepy nonchalance. It doesn't care about the professionals to whom we have removed the grant, young lawyers, accountants, consultants, VAT matches: abandoned. It doesn't matter if the INS doesn't show up. It doesn't matter if the ecobonus for energy efficiency doesn't start, because artisan companies can't afford to withdraw the tax credit if there isn't a state guarantee system for credit withdrawal. It doesn't matter if from the ecobonus remain outside hotels and peer schools, which, as has already been said, will have some oxygen thanks to the perseverance also of Forza Italia, which since the first Count Government has committed itself to exhaustion. It doesn't matter if the 20th of July will come the taxes to be paid without moratories and without extensions. It doesn't matter if plastic, which has been essential, will continue to be so for packaging during lockdown and instead it only moves for a few months the hateful plastic tax, it doesn't care about the mothers workers who are quitting because they don't make it: you work in smart working with two or three children in the house and make me laugh, thinking about the babysitter bonus during lockdown: but who the hell let in a babysitter during lockdown, with the risk of being infected? I mean, where do we live? [[Applause]] Just as this is not a country for women, for families, for young people, for children, for students, you want to reduce it to your image and likeness, but we will put ourselves sideways, we will make barricades, because Italy is the cradle of Western tradition. Italy is the custodian of the "Made in Italy" brand, the first brand of excellence in the world. [[Applause]] You want to annihilate your skills. Yesterday Senator Toninelli came back to speak and stated with determination that this is not a government that backs out. Is that a threat or a promise? My dear colleague Mr Toninelli, you have centred on the problem: this is not a government that backs out and should do so now, because we are on the edge of the ravine. With August 18 the layoffs season will open and then the fuse under the barrel of the social explosive will light up. There is no greater danger of unconsciousness, which is not courage, but irresponsibility. You don't even have the humility to listen to to learn or at least the cleverness to copy. Arrogance and presumption like that of the super minister Di Maio who, as reported by the "Corriere della Sera" the other day, after meeting Draghi said: He made a very good impression on me, as if to say: I shot Federer, he made a great impression. [[Applause]] Go to work, try working one day, and maybe you'll understand what you're up to. Roosevelt said: It is hard to fail, but it is even worse to have never tried to succeed. This applies to the Government, certainly not to Italy, which will succeed as soon as you give way to those who know how to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u53	Senator Ripamonti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u54	Mr President, we have to spend these four minutes honestly today by making a great effort of intelligence and I say this without irony, because of course we are talking about a measure, which we are debating today in practically four and eight, which speaks of EUR 55 billion which should be necessary to relaunch this country and we are really making a great effort at intelligence, the same effort, in fact, that President Rossomando also made when yesterday, in the Commission, the rapporteur, as far as our competence is concerned, tried to explain. I appreciated the effort, but I believe that in his heart, as in my heart, there was a little sense of being useless, because let us be very frank: in this branch of Parliament, what is called the Upper House, we have been, honestly, on this measure and on many others simply useless. [[Applause]] But do you really think that we did not want to vote for this measure? Do you really think that in a moment of great and profound crisis in this country, in which everyone recalls the need to be united, to be good, all together, we would not have wanted to vote for a measure of 55 billion, which is three financial? Of course we wanted to vote for him. The problem is that you did not give us the opportunity to do so, because, day after day, a decree from the President of the Council of Ministers after day, you told us to stand still, that we needed everyone's cooperation, to stay calm and you recommended that we make proposals to you. We, then, as good schoolchildren, got there and tried to make proposals, we did it from the beginning and we never stopped doing it, until even President Mattarella, at some point, invited everyone to calm down and do together the reforms or the great maneuvers that served the country. What have you done? And I am not referring to any of you in particular, except that which sits there in the middle and which is not there today, whose name is Giuseppe Conte: he has largely screwed it. [[Applause]] He just told us, during Facebook, to make proposals and we - for God's sake! - We did, but with what courage do we go to our people, to those who ask us, to tell them to be patient, why is it bad luck? We can't, because you know what? We were told to cooperate, we gave the package and what did they do? A task force and then it turns out that that task force, locked in a particularly important villa, comes out with almost all our proposals. Then you're gonna take us for the bottoms, too. At least have the courage to say: stop everyone, we have the decree-law relaunch, this time we do it together. Mr President, tell the members of the so-called Lower House that they may have to spend a little less time, they must give us the opportunity to enter into the matter. I see you're nodding, because probably at least we both know we're right about that. I will not dwell on the measure itself because four minutes are really few, but on it the tombstone put some associations, not least the Confindustria: the government does not have a project, phase 3 is without vision. The president of Assiterminal has spoken of 3 billion euros for Alitalia, 200 million for Ferrovie dello Stato, 140 million on the scooters (on this we stretch a pitiful veil) and 10 million euros for the ports: sin that they are those that carry the goods and distribute them. On the logistics and infrastructure of our country, from Liguria, I could tell anything and maybe you too President, who is Piedmontese, something could say it. Then there is the Italian Tour Operator Association (ASTOI). Yesterday you mentioned the tour operators and made a statement that I agree with, hoping that the next measure will include something more for that category. This is a leitmotiv: every time we hear that in the next provision there will be something that will affect someone or someone else. Well, I'll tell you what Astoi thinks of the decree-law I raise: it can be said without a question of denial that every expectation has been disregarded and the impression is that there is no intention to safeguard a section and a good part of the 80,000 families who work there. I shall conclude my speech, Mr President, with a reference to the person who gives me great satisfaction, the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and for Tourism. He is an extraordinary man, in his height and in his gentle features, a pity that for a sector that represents 13 percent of GDP and that represents many companies he has proposed the holiday bonus. During the 10th Commission's examination, of which you are a member, of the deal awarded No 445 we audited a lot of associations and - I say this without fear of denial, Senators Lanzi and Croatti are part of that Commission - there has been a unanimous criticism of the holiday bonus, because obviously you cannot tell the companies in the tourism sector that in order to save tourism must put the money, after they have been in crisis, with 60% less: you can't tell them! [[Applause]] Then please copy well; in the logic of the collaboration copied well: 300 euros per natural person they must have immediately, provided you stay in Italy and use the tour operators. It was very simple, it was a good thing that that Minister did it there (if anything he is a Minister of Tourism): he did not touch the Centinario law, I see one thing we did well. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u55	Senator Ripamonti, you have also called me directly into question, a sign that at least the intercourse gives some results, but the remarks that you and many other colleagues have made in this House, starting with President Pesco, are obviously a commitment that we take for the near future on the treatment of measures. Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u56	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, as many of my colleagues have said, today it is quite humiliating to intervene in this House, because we hoped that there would be a minimum of sharing, a minimum of work to be carried out, in order to send out the requests that come from the territory, the despair of accountants, traders in VAT consignments, small businesses, many families who are asking for help. The months of March, April, May have passed; we started with the decree-law care Italy; it is beautiful the name care Italy, but the cure did not work. We went to the Decree-Law liquidity, hoping that this liquidity would come and soothe all the problems, the wounds that struck the economic and social fabric of our country, but the liquidity did not arrive. There has been talk of EUR 400 billion, but only 51 billion have come from this morning's press reports to companies. We hoped in this decree to relaunch finally our country, to give breath, courage and hope to all our companies, but also to the municipalities that are working and are replacing the Government, but still nothing. During the examination in the Chamber of Decree-Law I raise all the amendments have been rejected; little has passed, crumbs. In the Senate, the amendments were not even discussed. The INPS data are shocking: there are 110,000 applications for cash-in-ceiling and not yet processed; of these, 23,000 were transmitted before 31 May. As a result, 1,400,000 workers are without a check and of these 89,000 have not yet received anything since March. [[Applause]] This is the bilateral craft fund, which is waiting for the government to pay the money to pay for the Integration Fund in April, May and June; the result is that one third of the companies are at risk of being closed down. I speak to you as I always do, because I am proud to be an administrator and a city council member of Arezzo. The EBRET, which is the bilateral body of Tuscan handicrafts, has declared that in the city and in the Province of Arezzo, during the period of lockdown, they have closed two artisan companies out of three and that in the coming months there will be a decrease of 11% of the occupation. Arezzo is important not only at national level, but also in the world, for the goldsmith-silver sector, which has been completely forgotten: on this too we had collaborated with the parliamentarians of all the political groups, because it is an important sector. The brand Made in Italy in the world: this will also be discussed in the next measure, but in September-October the situation will no longer be sustainable. There is also a complaint: it seems that at the INPS the platform to manage the Sprint Integration Fund, precisely of the decree-law relaunch, is not ready. The INPS is massively rejecting all applications for cash indemnification by way of derogation that are coming. Then, instead of thinking of dismantling the security decree, instead of closing 100 in 2021, think about today's problems, otherwise when you have achieved this goal there will be no more, because Italy will be a dead country. [[Applause]] Then let us relaunch this country and let it be the pride of all of us and of all political parties, from right to left. We'll do it and we won't stop. We will take care of this House and we will do everything that is necessary to restart the country. And remember that VAT matches, traders and businesses are the ones who pay your salary: soon there will be no more for you and for us the salary, because we will all go home. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u57	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u58	Mr President, Vice Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this decree is not only a measure to get out of the Covid emergency, but it is above all an opportunity to relaunch this country and improve it from the bottom. This is a powerful maneuver, a measure of 55 billion euros, which after 25 already put in place by the Italian care will go to support families, businesses, workers, research, health and the environment and much more. And it was not at all obvious that this Government could find so many resources in such a short time to deal with the consequences of an exceptional event that overwhelmed us with an unheard of power and put at risk the estate before our National Health Service and then our economy. The decree re-launches traces the path of re-starting through the visionary gaze of those who have the courage to dare, to get out of the schemes and to put in place the best of themselves starting from the attention to the last, to the most fragile sections of the population, those who so far have not been able to access any other compensation, but who will now benefit from the emergency income. This is a subsidy that for a few months will offer a breath of fresh air to many families who are in economic need; a real network of protection that, together with the allowances reserved for professionals, self-employed and VAT matches and the Cassa Integrazione, represents a shield for all citizens, the hand that we have aimed at everyone in order to be able to hold on and raise. This pandemic has certainly exacerbated social differences all over the world, as the pictures of the homeless in the car parks of American shopping malls or those of the poor in India have shown us, climbing trees to escape the contagion. The gap between the social classes must be bridged and we must prepare for another crisis, another emergency by embanking the disaster that we have created with our ethical distraction. The world can no longer be the same after this tragedy and the watchwords must be cooperation and inclusion, to give all the citizens and especially all the young people of this country the same opportunities to see their talent realized. However, the most important revolution contained in this measure is certainly the one that we present in the health sector, with the largest allocation of funds ever put in place for the National Health Service (more than 3 billion euros). We build a new health care that starts from the territory. Since times we have not suspected that the National Health Service is in distress because the right attention has not been paid to the development of territorial health and because in many regions there has not been enough investment in the integration between hospital care and intermediate primary care, but, on the contrary, it has preferred to give space to accredited private health, impoverishing the public. For this reason, we had already invoked in the budget law the necessary strengthening of home care and, even before the pandemic helped to overcome some taboos and resistances, focused on the need to enhance community nursing care in order to ensure the complete integrated take-up of people in the context of care continuity and therapeutic adherence, in particular for the most fragile subjects. Today the strengthening of territorial health is finally at the heart of the political agenda and is the focal point of the decree-law under consideration, which has allocated considerable resources to this end. However, it cannot be thought that these resources are being poured out in order to consolidate a structure that has proved to be far from capable of fulfilling the function of filter and taking care of the health needs expressed by the population. In order to achieve a real reorganization of territorial assistance, support must be given to the creation of structures dedicated to the provision of intermediate primary care, rationalize, restructure and secure care continuity, strengthen the endowment of extra-hospital residential structures and promote work in multi-disciplinary and multi-professional teams, also using telemedicine tools. All of this is provided for in part in the measure under consideration and we are committed to completing the draft with the forthcoming or already under discussion measures in Parliament. A fundamental aspect of the decree-law in question is also the increase of specialist training contracts in medicine, a historical battle of the Movimento 5 Stars to which I have dedicated myself. In the last two years, thanks to our tenacious work, we have gone from 6,000 contracts in 2018 to 9,200 in the last budget law and now, with the addition of 5,200 other contracts, the young graduates in medicine will be able to compete to 14,400 places, to which will be added all those financed by the Regions for specialized training and general medicine. [[Applause]] We have been able to fill in in just two years that training funnel that previous Governments had created and aggravated more and more and we will not give up. And we're not gonna quit. We will continue to work to carry out our draft laws already embodied in the Commission, which reform the path of post-graduate training of doctors to make it increasingly professional and quality and increasingly homogeneous throughout the national territory. The dramatic experience we have experienced has changed us; the pain of losing loved ones, family members, friends and colleagues has made us realize how important it is to have the courage to pursue one's ideas, if directed to the common good. We had tried to implement many of the proposals contained here already in the last budget law and today, in hindsight, I wonder how much it would have served in the pandemic emergency to already have telemedicine tools to monitor patients at home, and how much availability in the territory of primary care structures, multidisciplinary teams and home and capillary care would have allowed to make more timely diagnosis. To the 35,000 dead Italians of Covid-19, including 172 doctors and 40 nurses, to my colleagues, who have struggled to save lives, to my dearest friend and colleague of a lifetime, my teacher, who is also the victim of this infection, I promise not to lower my guard. [[Applause]] and to ensure that we have the courage to change this country, overcoming the resistances of lobbying that, in order to maintain their power, are strongly opposed to any proposal of change. We will build a new health, a public health that in private health needs to find a crutch, a support and not a sponge that absorbs resources without providing services. [[Applause]] For this reason, we have already linked the payments to private health in this measure to the verification of the activities actually carried out and agreed and to the costs actually incurred by private structures. There is also another note of personal pride in the decree-law that I hold very much, especially for the relationship built in recent months and years with the direct actors in the field, the precarious health care. Knowing their stories and dedication has given me the strength not to give up and I am proud that with this rule is finally guaranteed a working continuity to all the precarious who have worked in the Health Service for thirty-six months at 31 December 2020. Many of those we called heroes in the emergency risked losing their jobs in a few months, but they finally see their commitment recognized. The next step must be to renew all contracts in the health sector and guarantee all health workers a decent salary. I am referring in particular to the operators of 118 who are the forgotten eternals, always engaged in the front line, but condemned to work with contracts in expiration and inexpensive, without even seeing recognized - for example - the figure of driver rescuer. We do not claim to be able to heal all wounds, nor to cancel the consequences of what happened with a sponge stroke, but with a huge sense of responsibility we have worked to lay firm foundations so that our wonderful country can live a future of revival, rebirth, competitiveness, public safety, health protection and fundamental rights for all. In order to do so, we have also overcome the discrepancy between different positions, listening to all stakeholders and making a conscientious synthesis that represents the great results that can be achieved when moving politics are the common good and the sense of unity. Finally, I hope that this emergency, which - as I have said several times - must push us to courageous choices, finally awakens the consciences of even the political one that is far more distracted and detached from reality. We cannot wait for the next disastrous event to intervene to reorganize that ordinaryity that usually clouds our eyes and makes us forget how much the right to health of citizens goes first for the guarantee of access to care. In our eyes, who look through those who have lived in the front line of this tragedy, it is clear the direction to pursue and it is on that road that we are walking. [[Applause.]] 12:08 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u59	Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u60	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are debating contains the provisions on territorial assistance plans in order to be able to best deal with the epidemiological emergency in the field of health, support for work, economic support and social policies. But in the Health Commission, examined the text, and as far as it contains provisions on assistance plans for the territories, emergency management for the elderly or persons in fragile conditions, scholarships for specialist doctors, reordering of the hospital network, institution of the specialization school in medicine and palliative care, was not considered the possibility of carrying out a national emergency centre on the CDC model - the main National Institute of Public Health: Centre for Disease Control and Prevention - which would have been very useful in the current phase 3 of reopening, aimed at strengthening the monitoring networks of the current epidemic and other future possible infections with international control and prophylaxis. Furthermore, in the event that we are in a new state of emergency, the specific provisions on the state of emergency are completely absent. To this great limit I would add that any suggestion or proposal we make to fill the many gaps in the measure is made difficult to implement, often by distorting its overall approach, to the detriment of analyses and controls. All the work that our opposition colleagues, as we have done in the House, have also been made null and void. I am referring, for example, to Amendment 1,26, Article 1, which mainly concerned family and community nurses, who were asked for a role of responsibility in the field of district nursing services, with the participation in the implementation of the territorial assistance plans for the management of contacts and the active surveillance organisation. Another example, again in relation to Article 1, is amendment 1.27, which called on the National Health Service to ensure that patients with high welfare complexity receive an integrated take-over of all services provided at home. This would ensure constant clinical monitoring, improvement of the treatment path and reduction of hospital admissions for avoidable exacerbations. Again, one important amendment, which I also rejected, relates to Article 2, on 2,46, which concerned specialists who followed patients with chronic diseases that are disabling and oncologic, or who lack the immune system and who need the use of life-saving medicines. Can these specialists attach to the individual therapeutic plan a personalized vademecum, so that, in the event of a new pandemic emergency, access to treatment, drug administration, the routes to be followed safely within the health facilities is simplified? This amendment was shared with the project "Health: a good to defend" coordinated by Health Donna Onlus, with the contribution of 30 patient associations, active in the field of oncology. The aim was to avoid that the indicated patients could stop the treatment for fear of contracting the virus and, for this reason, suffer damage, even permanent, to their health. The amendment was intended to recognise the role experience of curing specialists. These are some of the many proposals, missed occasions, with total closure of the Government that, compared to the suggestions of the Parliament for the renewal and adaptation of the health system, even post-Covid, prefers to present a measure a rich, yes, but gaps. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u61	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarielli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u62	Mr President, I do not want to repeat the obvious and the saying, the fact that we are here not to testify but to launch an act of accusation, even if we know that the decision is already taken; although we know that the measure is marked; although we know that tomorrow, with the confidence of Parliament and the country's distrust, this act will still go on; an act for which the signatures in the bank, literally, we too have put them, but no one has asked us to share the choices. Well - as I said - I will not repeat this, but I will state, for my Commission, as we have done for each of the Commissions and the matters dealt with, everything that could have been placed in this measure that responsibly, as a League, we have proposed and has not been accepted, and in the interest not of a party but of the country, citizens, families and businesses. How not to start with plastic tax and disposable. It could be said, unfortunately, that the whole crisis was the revenge of a material and some products. Yet, ideologically, we still do not want to cancel the plastic tax and, at most, it is said that it will come into force in January and, in the meantime, there is time to postpone it. But in the meantime, companies shut down, they don't invest, they relocate. Well, we had proposed that we make a courageous choice, but we have always been told that it was too expensive. For once we had the money to make, if not everything, a lot, but we chose not to do. We had also asked, always in the field of environment and investment, for interventions at zero cost, such as - for example - the extension of two years of the authorisations granted by the Environmental Impact Assessment Commissions (EIA), given the stop that had been there. In this case, too, we have received a denial. I overlook, for decency, the proposals made on the bonus for scooters. We have proposed to turn those resources to another, or at least to Italian products, so that they would not be a revival of the economy of some other country. [[Applause]] , considering that hoverboards and scooters in Italy do not produce any. They produce bicycles historically: there are films in which you can see Italian citizens going to work by bicycle. I really want to see people go to work in scooter or hoverboard to slalom in traffic. Instead of putting fifteen questions and answers on the possibility of demand and use, the Environment Minister gives the dozens and dozens of answers that he is not giving about everything that could be done for mobility in other sectors, starting with automotive. The last example - the President will allow me if I am, as I hope, at the time - I devote it to the earthquake, on which, from Umbria, together with my colleagues Pazzaglini, Arrigoni and Lucidi, we worked. It is a shame to see the Covid-19 emergency extended, a finite emergency - even Sileri admitted that, as a technician, he could not tell a lie yesterday - and not see the earthquake emergency extended. [[Applause]] ; an emergency that risks being infinite. Not extending the emergency, the personnel of the Municipalities and the Special Reconstruction Offices (USR) dedicated to the disposal of the practices will be lost. The urban free zone has not been extended and the bonus has not been extended even to the earthquake. But - even more serious - we are talking about extending tax payments to businesses and citizens. Well, on June 30th, the companies in the areas of the earthquake crater began to pay the first instalment of the taxes of 2016 and 2017: in addition to the damage, the mockery. [[Applause]] I conclude by saying that the certification of the failure of this measure lies in the admission of guilt by the Interior Minister Lamorgese. When it comes to saying that in the autumn there will be social tensions and the riots are expected, it means that this measure will not produce material effects and that, to the material rubble of an earthquake, the economic ones will be added, in which the entire country will be found; rubble that the whole of Italy will see also for the inertia of the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u63	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u64	Mr President, through you I address Parliament and, through the Senate of the Republic, I speak to the Italians, since today our speeches are all being broadcast on the video. Well, dear Italians, I have in my hand the text of the decree-law that we will have to discuss in a few hours: this is the decree-law presented by the Government, as amended by the House. It has never happened, in the history of the Italian Republic, that a decree-law, which by its constitution must be urgent, simple and of immediate application, consists of a thousand pages. I repeat: a thousand pages! [[Applause]] A decree-law, which should be homogeneous, simplified, urgent and immediately applicable, consists of a thousand pages. And we should examine it without the opinion of the Commissions, discuss it, amend it and modify it in a few hours. I challenge anyone among you to read and interpret a thousand-page decree-law in a matter of hours. All this, dear representatives of the Government and of the majority, takes place while the decree on simplification is being approved, unless otherwise agreed. Do you realize what a political-institutional legislative paradox you have created? And while we have a thousand-page decree, consisting of 266 articles, 1,051 paragraphs, which should include 103 implementing measures, you submit, unless otherwise agreed, a decree on simplification which, to date, has not yet been published in the Official Journal, eight days after its alleged approval, unless otherwise agreed. I say to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars that there is no longer the flag of transparency, simplification, the correct relationship between the Government and Parliament, announced since the beginning of the parliamentary term in this House and proclaimed in any way. The streaming flag no longer exists. I dare you to stream a thousand pages of a decree-law live. It was your flag and you, on the other hand, reduced yourselves to approving, without understanding and without debate in Parliament, the closed-box decree-laws and, with the benefit of darkness, approving measures on matters of extraordinary importance. Tonight, with the favor of darkness, has been approved - or, at least, seems to have been approved, or in any case an agreement has been reached, because with you we never understand if there is an understanding, except understandings - a historical decision that concerns the infrastructure network of the country and the highways. Good or bad? We don't know yet. Given the formula "unless agreed," in fact, at this time it is not known, of course, how much the evaluation is worth. If the valuation was less than 7 billion, as the relative majority party said, or 23 or 24 billion. It's a joke to know if the valuation is 7 or 23 billion. Unless agreed, then it will be done on another night, and who knows with how many lobbying and consulting contracts to decide whether it is 7 billion or 23 billion the value that the State will have to pay. Who knows how many encounters in the darkness of the night will be done in the meantime! Who knows how many advices will be given in the meantime! Who knows how many investigations there will be in the next few years in this regard! In the meantime, we know that, with the benefit of darkness, an agreement has been reached in the majority that had not been discussed in the previous days and months, having you publicly argued about other options; and this is to the point that, the other day, the President of the Council gave a categorical interview, presenting to the country and the markets the solution that was preparing to achieve. That interview, so clear and clear, by a very overwhelming lawyer such as the President-in-Office of the Council, caused the stock exchange collapse of the title of the reference company: less than 15%. Related to transparency, minus 15%! I crashed on the stock market on the basis of an interview, which seemed very clear, about the decisions you would have made from there within a few hours. Colleagues of transparency, after the decision made in the darkness of the night on a solution that no one had proposed until then, the actions jumped this morning by 22%. Let's assume - we hypothesize it also in the eyes of the supervisory authorities and perhaps of some magistrate - that someone knew what was going to happen; let's assume that some duno knew, that some consulting firm and some law firm had been asked. And let's assume someone bought the stock after the collapse of less than 15 percent, and a few hours later that stock jumped by 22 percent. How many millions of euros have any of you earned in the meantime? How many tens of millions of euros did some speculator earn in the meantime? How many hundreds of millions of euros have you earned in the meantime some speculator you knew? By the way, what did Chancellor Merkel say the other day at an official meeting? If I'm not mistaken, he talked about Motorways. Or am I wrong? And have the decisions taken by Parliament and the majority after a debate? Did the government take them, with the benefit of darkness, or did a Chancellor of a foreign country take them, who had long been aiming to take over the Italian motorway system? All I'm trying to do is understand and let the country know where you brought in the institutions. You did not undermine Parliament, but you armored with the favor of darkness, so that only those who act in darkness can know in time and speculate on the country's arrangements. This is your terrible conversion on the road to Damascus, that is, on the way to the power of the armchairs, sacrificing all your ideals and above all national interests. With this 1,000-page decree-law, make an affront to the country. Yesterday, former Minister Toninelli said we gave 80 billion euros, but I say debt. What conclusions are there? The European Commission, precisely on the basis of your actions, your proposals and decree-laws, has declassified by lowering its estimates on Italy from minus 9% to at least 13%. Thanks to what you have done, unfortunately, all international bodies have worsened the estimates of the country's performance. It is precisely by reading this measure that they have made estimates worse and tell Italy and the world that our country will be the country that will pay more than all the others the dramatic economic and social consequences of coronavirus; what, among all the countries of the European Union and among all the great countries of the world, will have the greatest negative impact in terms of industrial production, of gross domestic product, of employment. To this you have reduced our country and our institutions. On this the country, sooner or later, will judge you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u65	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u66	Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, senators, allow me to stigmatise - as other Members have done in their previous speeches - what has been and what is the behaviour of the Government on this measure: a disrespectful attitude towards not only this House, but the whole Parliament, for how it has been carried out, not the negotiation, but the measure itself. We denounced it very strongly yesterday and I repeat it also as a member of the Budget Commission, because today it is impossible in a material way to deal with this measure, which expires in a few hours and contains an absolutely powerful intervention. I therefore join in the speeches made by other Members in demonstrating the way in which Parliament is debased by such attitudes in its main, even democratic, functions of political confrontation between the various parties, majority, opposition and government. If you all remember, ladies and gentlemen, this is the April decree: the name by which he was baptized, and then it was launched on 19 May and will be fired by this Parliament in July. It should have been, according to the communications of the President of the Council and the Government, the decree of the restart of the country. As I said before, it is powerful and made of hundreds of pages and articles, but its physical weight does not correspond to any specific weight regarding quality and substance towards Italians and social and productive categories. This is a measure that today we believe is already out of time to be able to help and support the productive activities and families of our country. [[Applause.]] With it we are here today in Parliament to vote for a further debt that we have already put in place: that is why we are feeling debased in our role today too, because this Senate and, above all, the oppositions were decisive in voting for the budgetary deviation a few months ago, for 55 billion, just to start the path of this decree. With the measure under consideration and considering all the others, we arrive at a demand of 304 billion debt up to 2032. Very well: we are not frightened by the numbers, numbers and debt, because in a difficult economy like the one we have today we need to indebit. We are frightened by the cut you have given to the various measures merely and purely welfare, which has nothing to do with a revival, a restart and support for the real economy and the companies of the country. There is little or nothing, and that is why we are concerned. We are afraid, not of debt and its numbers, but of the quality of the measures, which do not go in the desired direction of growth. For us the revival is necessarily passed by companies and productive activities, which must be supported concretely, without whether or not, and with important measures. We have been saying this for a long time, because it is part of our political line and, therefore, we have been supporting it for a long time, especially since the emergency began. Four simple things are needed to help the country: non-profit aid; zero bureaucracy; rapid support times and, above all, a fiscal shock. These four things are enough today to help the country, businesses and especially families. On the contrary, we are going in a completely opposite direction because, in order to acknowledge and implement the hundreds of pages of these measures, we will need another 113 implementing regulations, otherwise the one under consideration will remain closed in the cabinet of the Ministries. [[Applause.]] You have once again made the same mistake as the previous decrees, which at least could teach us something. Even today the Italians complain that they have not received a fund of integration, support, bonuses and many other measures, precisely because they lack the implementing decrees of many measures launched previously. At least the experience could have been used to do something better, even in political confrontation. And, instead, all this wasn't there. So, we make the same mistake and the consequences are the Italian companies and families. Without criticism, I would like to touch on a number of important points, looking at what the proposals are. There is a welfare cut: once again, in the measure under consideration, €7 billion of current expenditure on citizenship income is confirmed by 2020, which even Italians have rejected, considering it unnecessary, and whose payment, according to the Court of Auditors, has produced nothing. Once again we use EUR 7 billion which could have been used to do so many other, more important, things to support the economy. We also remember the unfair social implications that the income of citizenship has had and still has, today, on the artisan categories and professionals who, by law, have left their studies and activities closed and who have obtained only three months of bonuses from the State. How do they start again today if they don't have social shock absorbers that support them? That is why there is social iniquity in these provisions, not to mention the chapter of taxes. We therefore come to another important question: next week Italians will have to go and pay taxes, but how will the owners of those activities that are still closed today and have no prospect, vision and possibility of restarting? Nothing has been done about taxes, except a simple suspension, and therefore they will have to pay for them. What we are asking for instead is a net cut and an important tax reform, to help and support activities, businesses and families. The economic picture - as my colleague Senator Urso said just now - is dramatic. I would like to remind you of some important data that the Bank of Italy has recently communicated to us. Domestic demand today is down 4.7% in the first quarter. The judgment on the conditions to invest in Italy has suffered a drop, from -20 to -80 percentage points. The climate of consumer confidence is falling, while unemployment expectations unfortunately rise. And this is a serious problem. The growth forecasts, made by the major national and international bodies, estimate a decrease of 11%. If the emergency Covid has exposed the structural problems of our country, which we have been carrying for many years now, we cannot overlook that the emergency, health first and economic then, has also highlighted all the inadequacy of the Government in managing a complex situation, which today needs a political majority, to govern the difficult moment in which we find ourselves and, above all, to govern our country. We are convinced - I say this in the presence of the representative of the Government, also on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Forza Italia - that Italy will succeed in getting out of the ford of the serious economic crisis in which it is pouring, but the merit will be only and all of the Italians. In these moments and weeks our businesses and our families are making huge sacrifices [[Applause]] and do not have concrete help from the Government and the State, just as they have not had it in the last few months. Therefore, the merit is only ascribable to the Italians, because once again, with the current majority, which is only numerical and not political, you have demonstrated all the inadequacy of a political vision of the country, which is not there, and of the strategy, which you absolutely do not have, on how to govern the future of our children. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u67	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u68	Mr President, undersecretary Misiani, this is a measure which all Italians have been waiting for a long time. I remind myself - but unfortunately it is a raw reality - that at the beginning it was called the April decree, then it became a May decree, then it passed the month of June and today we are in July. Among other things, the decree-law will expire on 18 July and, therefore, we are at the maximum limit for its conversion. This shows that you are putting a great deal of pain in declaring a reality and proposing a government action, to respond to the economic crisis achieved at the coronavirus, but without taking into account the times. Mr. Undersecretary Misiani, the country has stopped. Stopping the country was even easy, in its complication, but making it start again is now the complicated thing, on which government action is measured. Seeing a decree-law like the one under consideration, which - just to give a size - is 10 cm tall and consists of several hundred pages, which in turn needs at least 100 implementing decrees - and, to make it good, if all goes well, we will see something perhaps with the beginning of next year - tells us that you have mistaken tool. You see, undersecretary Misiani, I took the trouble to go and retrieve the instrument used by the Federal Republic of Germany, and that's exactly what I have in my hand: four pages, including the cover. And we're talking about 130 billion. In that you put everything into our examination, you have made an omnibus measure: from scooters to aid for businesses, from bonuses to going on holiday until you get to standards such as that on firefighters, then declared inadmissible due to extraneousness of matter. Instead of focusing on government action to restart Italy, you have used this tool to make the usual market, where everything has been placed in an uneven and uneven way, with the consequent difficulties to translate into facts what is written. I mentioned the question of firefighters: you tried to include in the text the norm for equalization, that is, the salary enhancement of firefighters, which deserved its own attention. What does this have to do with Covid? Only you know that. After that, you also tried with an amendment, night-time, tabled at the last moment, without even knowing the distribution of funds, to include in the measure the distribution of the same between managers and non-managers, between operational and non-operational, with tables that were - we discovered later - evidently agreed under the table with someone - for friends, as they say - and kept hidden also from the union forces. This action of yours has not been successful, and today we also know that it would have been further damage to a very important category, which deserves respect. But that says how instrumentally you used the Covid to do other political operations, until you got into controversy with us. Undersecretary Misiani, remember that you had Colao make a plan. You've made all the experts and scientists plan to re-launch the country that didn't come in here; you haven't taken it into account. You made the catwalks at Villa Pamphili without getting in here. It's time to finish it, then, with the proclamations. Italy needs certainties, which means availability of resources. We are well aware that the mythical 400 billion bazooka has been translated into perhaps 50 billion credits to companies, with difficulties even on anti-mafia certifications because companies cannot overcome the stamp that some office must put. President, it is not with the myth of smart working that the country is restarted, because this is a country that leaves only if it works in the factory, if it works in the crafts, in the real economy, and not in that fiction of television screens. [[Applause.]] I say, then, Mr President, that this is too complicated, too slow, with legislative decrees that will further lengthen the time and with too triumphalistic tones to be real. Lower the level of triumphalism. Be more concrete and stop teasing the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u69	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u70	Mr President, today we are talking about a very complex measure, one of the most articulated in the history of the Italian Parliament, which has the merit of placing considerable resources in the productive and social fabric of the country. It is a measure that - if we want to - reflects the context in which it was issued, with resources designed to cushion the emergency, rather than, unfortunately, to imagine the economic restart. It follows that some measures are on the verge of assisting, and this is not good if we look at the latest economic forecasts that tell us about a worsening of the economic picture. I am also concerned about the labour market. I see in this measure measures such as bans on time contracts as vouchers. We continue with the ban on dismissal. Well, I understand, but that's how the economy is cast, and the free economic initiative is written in our Constitution. I hope, therefore, that there will be flexibility on this front, because in an emerging situation it is what we need for our companies. No company - and I challenge anyone on this - wants to fire its employees; everyone tries to keep them because they are part of their family, but it is also obvious that you cannot destroy a company because you do not give the necessary flexibility. I believe, for this reason, that in the next measures, starting with the new budgetary deviation and the decree that will follow it, not every euro - because perhaps it would be exaggerated - but many euros must be allocated to those areas that can act as an economic multiplier to consolidate and ensure the rebound effect of next year. We must leave the emergency and enter into a perspective of relaunching and restarting, therefore less taxes and a constant commitment to bureaucratic simplification, a process of accompaniment for innovation and competitiveness, which remains the real weakness of the Italian production system. A real industrial strategy, that's what we need in Italy. In this sense, the way in which European aid will be provided can truly turn into a historic opportunity for modernisation and overcoming a number of structural constraints that prevent business growth. However, Europe will ask us - in my view rightly - for investment projects before we pay money, but are we ready to invest this European money? Do we have the design needed to invest them in the next two or three years? Do we have a public administration that can lead this process? I am sceptical, but we must not miss this historic and unique opportunity, we must prepare ourselves now. I ask this of the Government, for the good of our citizens and for a real restart of our country. The issues, then, are digitisation, civil justice finally working, ecological transition that does not penalise businesses, but that gradually accompanies them on the ground of sustainability. Europe is indicating a way out of the crisis that is not limited to the provision of resources, but that leads to transforming this issue on an occasion to build new countries into a new Europe. I believe that this is a signal of extraordinary importance and that is why I really hope that the final agreement will preserve this plant. In order to return to the measure, it is really difficult to have to take into account all the measures contained. Surely the flag measure, the one that is carefully looked at by the companies, is the superbonus for the work of energy improvement of the buildings. This is a measure that can certainly give impetus to the sector, provided that the application rules are up to speed and allow concrete access to the benefits. Unfortunately, I am reminded of what has happened in the past with the invoice discount or recently with the provision of small loans guaranteed at 100% of the State. On the other hand, the measures in favour of our territories are positive. I am thinking of the fund of two million for schools in the Aosta Valley and the Autonomous Provinces, but also of the extension of the natural gas network in the climate zones F, as well as the possibility in the mountain territories of being able to apply superbonus also to the interventions of connection to efficient district heating systems. It is important, then, the article of the provision that concerns the proper functioning of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces. The political agreement reached in recent days to deal with the lack of tax revenues of the Autonomous Provinces is essential in order to ensure the proper functioning of a number of primary services. These measures are proof that the work in Parliament is not useless but leads to the improvement of the measures and here is also the thanks to the Deputy Minister who has spent so much on this agreement. Unfortunately, once again one branch of Parliament has ratified the work of the other. We've been reporting this for months. If we want to overcome the perfect bicameralism, a constitutional reform takes place, but until then the House and the Senate have the same dignity, and this is even more true for a measure of such importance that two financial manoeuvres are worth at least and that has been made possible only thanks to the budgetary deviation that Parliament has authorised. Nor is the excuse of the times of the emergency and of the size of the measure worth: in times not suspect we had asked for the unpacking of the measure in order to guarantee to both the branches to be able to work and to make even faster its approval. This continuous disbandment of parliamentary prerogatives is not acceptable, the Government fully restores the proper relationship between executive and legislative. In conclusion, Mr President, my strong hope is that from now on we will proceed with interventions that will take away the temptations of welfare but that they will be able to revive consumption and the economy. A momentary reduction in VAT would produce among consumers, an effect of confidence in the market, with immediate benefits especially for the middle and low classes; in Germany it was done with profit, if you see the consequences now, I do not understand why this cannot be done in Italy too. We need an acceleration with the awareness that the real issue is that of economic recovery on which we must concentrate all our energies and all economic resources, starting with the Decree-Law simplifications, which will be another important test to verify also the proper involvement of Parliament by the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u71	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u72	Mr President, in my speech I will talk about the subject of which I am interested in the Commission, so my inclination towards health on the one hand is a source of pride, but on the other hand it is a sort of condemnation. As with those actors who are destined from the beginning to play only the good or the bad in the movies, I find it difficult to get out of the argument. At this stage, however, I would like to take a few minutes to reason on the measure; my colleague Urso has declined better than me the absolutely hypertrophic dimensions that, like any hypertrophy, then affect the functioning of the organ as it is known (so we are also talking about health). However, it is a matter of concern, Mr President, that the text we are debating basically takes steps to reform: I am thinking of the reform of the National Health Service, the reform of school and university, to talk only about the subjects I know. If we wanted to, with regard to this regime of alternating functioning of the Chambers (it comes to mind Matteo Renzi with his destiny compared to a referendum that tried to carry forward in the country, going to bang the face, as is known to all), it would have been easy: it was enough to make a government with the 5 Stars and it would have been very easy to do constitutional reform in the sense of repealing one House or the other alternately. I am referring to this alternating way of working, so where the measure is incarnate, perhaps there is room to reason in the amendment and debate in the Commission, whereas where unfortunately the measure already comes "chewed" from the other branch of Parliament does not even talk about it: we have to decide in three days, we have to discuss in the Chamber without the rapporteurs and of course vote for the umpteenth confidence (I believe that the current one is the 23rd or 24th of the Count 2 government, we are at the historical record in republican history). But there is a limit to everything, because then the Constitution has its counterweights and dams anyway, so sooner or later we will get to the counterweight and it will be when you have to present yourself before the voters. I said that the measure under discussion, as Mr Candiani said, fills us with 1,000 pages, 266 articles, about 70 or 80 implementing clauses and about 100 implementing regulations. In recent days the press pointed out that already 80 percent of the implementing decrees previewed by the decree-law I throw again and cure Italy were stopped, lacked more than eighty percent of the implementing decrees. Now we add another 100 in absolute value, which are contained in these 1,000 pages; you realize for yourself that this is only fantasy, only a wish in the hypothesis of good faith, in the hypothesis of bad faith, a sort of panem et circenses, matter to be fed to unified networks, as we have seen in the numerous and countless press conferences, meetings and positions taken with respect to a disoriented and lost country, on which they weigh huge problems that cannot find even a crumb of response. We come to the subject of health: in the Health and Health Commission - I do not want President Collina, whom I appreciate and esteem, a calm and serious person - someone demanded that we dismiss the measure in an hour. We had to listen to the opinion, divided into ten pages and two parts (after obviously reading the thousand pages of the measure and 260 articles with all the paragraphs and paragraphs and of course allow every Commissioner to express his views in general discussion), then summarized a minority opinion (because all the important measures also need a minority contribution), and expressed the explanations of vote (of course at least the leaders): all this in an hour. Moral of the fairy tale: the provision was taken as it was, "a package," and went beyond. We voted against, the majority voted in favour of the opinion, and so we moved on. This is not the logic of democracy, it is obviously the logic of the numbers to which democracy is often subjected. In detail and in substance this is a measure that is largely devoted to health, and it could not be otherwise, being a measure that addresses the emergency Covid. However, compared to this part which details health (as I said, it carries out an important reform of essential parts of the National Health Service, which, for example, apply to training courses and specialty scholarships in the university area), there is no mention of an agenda which I mentioned yesterday in the presence of Minister Hope. I have not had time to read the commitments and I believe that time will be lacking today too, but I would point out to you, ladies and gentlemen, that all of us in this House, one of the two branches of Parliament, unanimously approved, with the Government's favourable opinion, an agenda which contained specific commitments and voted on 9 June last, in good time to be properly included in the more than one thousand pages of the decree that we are considering today and on which the question of trust is likely to be raised and we should simply say yes or no. The commitments were important, so much so that we voted them all together. They were committed to the need to: monitor the virus epidemic in the population; develop the donation of immune plasma by the identified subjects and create a digital platform to channel all regional data to analyze the virus in every detail and in every geographical and territorial manifestation; define the time frame for molecular testing requirements for phase 2. The famous three "T" (I'm not here to tell you again, because we've talked about it so many times) put by the World Health Organization (Trace, test and treat) to go from phase 2 to phase 3 and manage the final phase of the pandemic, they provide precisely the monitoring, the mapping of the virus in the population and the treatment. All of this was summed up on an agenda with seven important commitments, declined according to an alchemy that found majority and opposition favorable. Well, Mr President and representative of the Government, none - I say no one - of these commitments have been included in this mega - hypertrophic measure despite the fact that there was all the space needed. Why? Why is the majority not able to understand what is written on an agenda? Evidently not, I don't want to think about it at all. Why were the commitments so serious and complex that they could not be included in this huge measure? No, not even. It is sloppy: it is simply the attitude that we check every day. It is the guilty blindness with which we will face the hypothetical new rise of the curve; it is precisely a lack of sense of responsibility. We will face the probable worsening of the epidemiological situation that led to lockdown, with a hypothetical further and dramatic restriction measure, without having complied with the minimum provisions established by all international bodies and also by the national technical-scientific committee, namely the need to map the virus in the population and update the safety protocols, in accordance with what happened in the regions, and the protocols of treatment. We have not done this and everyone will take responsibility for it. What we say here today will remain in the record. Colleagues, we quickly change our path: the country asks us, but above all our common dignity. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u73	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u74	Mr President, we are faced with a comprehensive and complex measure, which gives many answers. There are important labour, tax, financial needs of businesses, health, civil protection and civil service, social policies, territorial authorities, public administration, justice, territorial cohesion and the Mezzogiorno, school, university, high training and research, culture and entertainment, information and communications, infrastructure and transport, environment and energy, agriculture and fisheries, immigration, defence and security. Such an articulated and resourceful measure (well €55 billion) had never been seen in the history of the Republic, but it had never been seen even a pandemic on a planetary basis so important and dramatic since the end of the Second World War to today. The resources and measures contained in this extraordinary measure are therefore justified by the condition of extreme urgency that the country lives. Is it a decisive measure of the problems that Italy is experiencing? No, certainly not, but the decree-law of which we discuss the conversion into law certainly makes an important contribution to many sectors and represents the starting point to build the rebirth of the country. We will certainly need other interventions, other resources and a careful listening to the needs of the citizens and of the various categories. No one can solve a crisis like the one we are experiencing with a single measure or with many good words, like the experiences of all countries affected by coronavirus and socio-economic consequences bring to light. Let me say that if this government had been the fruit of the Papeete, I believe that the situation in which we would live and in which we would debate our country would be much more serious than what we are facing. I want to highlight some of the most important instruments provided for by the decree-law under consideration, shared and improved in the Chamber of Deputies also thanks to the contribution of my colleagues from Italy Viva. In the field of work, provision is made for the extension of social shock absorbers and allowances for certain categories of workers and the increase of specific measures in support of parenthood. There are also provisions to allow INAIL to allocate EUR 200 million, resulting from the sale of real estate, to a call for aid to finance investment projects by enterprises. Then there is the network contract with a causal solidarity, which allows for 2020 to conclude contracts to facilitate the maintenance of the levels of employment of companies and of sectors affected by the crisis. In the tax field, there is also the definitive abolition of the so-called safeguard clauses and relative increases in VAT and excise duties; in the field of aid to companies provided for the cutting of the IRAP, further part of a path of support to enterprises and work, begun and developed by the Governments Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri and today consolidated with measures such as this or those introduced by the law of the budget with the continuation of industry 4.0 and the further reduction of the tax wedge (the famous 80 euros, so vituperati and today enhanced). This is the right way. These are the right measures to be consolidated. There is support for innovative startups with grants and the promotion and enhancement of the activities of innovative companies. We find the promotion of the system of societies benefits and resources important for a total strengthening of the National Health Service, its different articulations, territorial and hospital, both from the organizational point of view and regarding the recruitment of staff. A first and significant support is given to the municipalities, which takes into account the lower revenues recorded. There is much more full-bodied support for peer schools and a new significant intervention on public, state and equal schools has been announced, which needs adequate support. There is the important recognition that social, health and social care services are essential services, which cannot be blocked even in an emerging phase such as the one that was lockdown. There is so much more, ladies and gentlemen, and we know that all this weighs and will weigh on the new generations because there is a great deal of debt and it is for this reason that the next steps must be targeted and taken very carefully, trying to grasp the most critical points of the crisis that we are experiencing and give the best possible support to areas that are still asking for help or that, for reasons related to limited resources, have not yet been able to see adequate answers. We know, however, that the government is going to ask Parliament for further budgetary deviation and through these resources, if Parliament grants them, we will go and give aid to those who still ask for adequate support. We believe that the centre of the next steps must be aimed at helping businesses to the best, because we must all share together, safeguarding work. If businesses are safeguarded, we will safeguard the work of today and tomorrow. If companies go into crisis, due to liquidity-related needs or to issues related to the lack of income and therefore the impossibility to bear payments and taxes, we know that the work of families and many Italians will be at risk. We must therefore focus on work and not on assistance. We must focus on decontributions, as in this measure in the field of agriculture, and not on welfare. Watch out, the emerging measures to help those in need in a particularly critical condition are sacring and must be used but cannot be generalized and become the basis of policies of a government or a majority. So specific aid is good where it is needed, but without making assistantism the flag of a path and a process. We believe that the relaunch decree has laid the foundations for not going in that direction but in another, and this is the structure of the measures that must be strengthened, those that support companies and work. Mistakes have also been made, let us not hide it; there have been delays in the delivery of the so much that the Government has been able to draw with its own measures, not only with the decree I raise, but also with the previous ones, and we believe that we must ask for account of the responsibilities of those who did not know how to be timely in the implementation of the measures that the Government has been able to put in place: I think of the INPS and other realities that have not been really fair in giving the answers that the workers expected with the Cassa Integrazione and much more. We must pursue the path of simplification, this is fundamental for the development of our country and for economic recovery. We are waiting for the publication of the important decree issued by the Government (and Parliament will certainly improve it). As Italia Viva we made a significant contribution to this game with the shock plan. We know that there is still much to be done, that we can further improve these measures and we will certainly do so. The road is also that of support for families. The data that other colleagues have mentioned today regarding the birthday that has reached the record from the unity of Italy to today, must question us and must move us in the direction of giving maximum support to families. There is a plan - the Family Act - that has been initiated by the Government, is already under discussion in Parliament and must be absolutely strengthened in the various measures that Minister Bonetti has designed and proposed and that the Government has made its own starting the path. Public, state and equal schools must be restarted. In the decree-law to our examination we gave important answers where there were critical issues but we know that there is still a lot to do. We still need to give support to the municipalities that are the cornerstone of the Republic and the democratic system because the demands of all citizens are concentrated there. Let me remind you quickly, President, that during the pandemic we have often remembered doctors and nurses who have died, but there are also ten mayors in office who died because of the coronavirus while performing their duties for their communities, and it is right to remember them as well. We believe that there is a path and a vision to be pursued. With this decree-law, as I said, important bases have been laid which must be strengthened. We must pursue a path of cooperation and cooperation with the third sector which has played a very important role in recent months, in this critical period. This sector must also be given adequate support. The government must also pay attention to their demands. Today the road, as I said, is to simplify, to innovate, to support local realities, to decontribution, to relaunch tourism (with the serious problems that we know are experiencing), to support companies to ensure the work of today and tomorrow. We must do this by cooperating with Europe. The Government and the President-in-Office of the Council are conducting a very important negotiation so that we can get meaningful answers from Europe. I will end with an appeal to the Government and the majority because we must also be able to manage the timing of the measures better, because the fact that one of the two Chambers, now alternating, cannot fully express itself on the measures of the Government is not easy to digest and is serious for the process of democracy. I understand and welcome the complaints of the opposition on this side that they are complaints even of those in the majority because they are unable to make their contribution. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude, Senator Cominicini. Beginnings (IV-PSI). I'm out, ma'am. There is so much good in the re-launching decree-law that we can and must improve with the next important measures, so the invitation to the Government and the majority is to continue along this path, to strengthen the positive measures and to organize themselves even better in order to give both branches of Parliament time to express themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u75	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u76	Mr President, I have listened with interest to all the speeches that have been made before me, and I therefore regret the need and the need for some clarification. In fact, when people say in this House that they are babbling or testifying, there is no merit in the work that every parliamentary group and every senator carries out in the context of his duties. [[Applause]] Similarly, I am convinced - I am obviously speaking on behalf of and on behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party but I imagine for everyone - that the elected members of the Democratic Party know the world of work, know the problems, know what is happening (because they do not live who knows where), know Italy, and therefore in these classrooms express their opinion, their projects because they think they are the best ones to raise the fate of the country. Faced with this, repeating mechanically or screaming the possible solutions does not mean representing the truth. Moreover, when we fear gloomy scenarios, all we do is feed unnecessary divisions. As far as bicameralism is concerned, I understand that it is a real and current issue in an emergency phase like this. It seems that there is a depression of the ideals that every parliamentary group in the two Chambers can express; but to say that it has worked with the favor of darkness and closed box is absolutely unacceptable. On the contrary, I would like to ask that colleague who said something like that whether he did not take part in any kind of debate in his party in relation to what happened (i.e. the relaunch decree) in the House of Deputies. The decree throws again is the third, unfortunately, from the beginning of the epidemic. It is certainly an ambitious project, which allows the country not only and exclusively to deal with the emergency (also of course, in particular the health and the integration fund) but also, with the tools that are contained in that tome (of course not easy to read and not even physically manage), to finance and support as much as possible the cornerstones and pillars of the economy of our country. With the decree I throw again and with the next decree simplification, therefore, in addition to investing enormous economic resources, it is our intention and the Government overcome all the obstacles, especially those of bureaucratic character, in order to favor as much as possible the resumption of the activities. It is certainly an ambitious but inescapable design. We are faced with choices in part forced by the emergency and the evidence of things, but with the decree relaunch they put themselves in the field of operations that also go in perspective. I could refer to the final elimination - at last - of safeguard clauses. Certainly within the I throw again decree there are forecasts that allow us to plan and to face serenely the future through the recovery plan and the recovery fund. Unfortunately, the issue we are going to have to deal with is not just an economic one. For our part, we often repeat that never has such a volume of resources been allocated in different sectors (such as health care and tourism, and not list them all); the problem is that it is not just money. I wish it was just a money problem. We have seen this in the most acute phase of the economy: today we are in different conditions thanks to the choices made by the Italian Government but above all thanks to that happy union that has established between the choices of the Government and the institutions and the citizens, who have respected the dictates of lockdown and have allowed Parliament, the Government and the institutions to be now in a completely different situation. Unfortunately, today, despite the resources, despite the efforts, despite what there will be (I am also referring to the next budgetary deviation: I imagine another measure of spending), despite the political will to support all possible and imaginable actions, we cannot say that we are out of that fear. The fact that there are still critical situations in Europe and in the world and that there is a presence of the virus in many parts of the world, with the limitations that there are to social mobility between countries, is continuing to depress the demand; the tourist presences inferior to the expectations or what we were accustomed to are the most obvious expression of it. When it is said that we are in bad conditions, we do not take into account that the real turning point is the solution that the scientific community can give us through the vaccine. In a still difficult condition it is therefore difficult to imagine what is the best measure that raises the country. Meanwhile, it is the government's job to deal with all the repercussions; we do so with billions of euros in the health sector and to refinance the integration fund, but also through spending measures that enable the country to restart in the future. It is therefore the third measure of this triptych, which will end with the decree simplifications and then, again, with the recovery fund. It's hard to say otherwise: we may have missed some predictions (who is it that doesn't make mistakes?However, it is difficult to say that, with this measure it does not inject itself in the country n volume of resources such that it can allow our economic activities, families, the Italian community a recovery path. Another important point, for me that I am curious, but I imagine that many have noticed it, is that so far there are no measures taken (decree Cura Italia, decree liquidity and now decree relaunching) imaginary measures. There are no measures not in line with the common feeling of the other European partners. This passage is important, because many of the statements we have heard in this House in recent days were clearly outside the path that other European countries are also following: as if there were a direction, which is the most obvious thing. Otherwise, if we had done something different, that guy in Holland who exposed the cartel would have bought all the Dutch advertising space to say that we didn't have to give Italy a single penny. Luckily, that guy's isolated, and I hope Italian friends break relationships, too. But all this is welfare. I'm sorry, but were we supposed to guarantee the Integration Fund? Yes. Were we supposed to support the health care system? Yes. Were they supposed to guarantee liquidity? Yes. So if it's true that this is welfare, we'd all be doing a welfare operation helping out and supporting the country. About country and involvement, but then is it a solo measure we have written or have we listened to? Has the country been heard, has it been involved or, in the secret rooms as has been repeated so far, have we done anything confidential? We see it with the measures. Have we listened to the business world? For the companies, in addition to the liquidity decree, there are further movements for another 100 billion euros in order to guarantee the liquidity. Did we listen to them or not? We canceled the June IRAP deposit. Did we listen to them or did we not listen to them? I think that's what they were asking for. If they also asked for the moon, we will probably be able to give the moon in the future. In the meantime, however, we have listened to their proposals, like those of tourism operators. There are €3 billion, various subsidies and various funding and others will be invested with the recovery fund. And the world of school, did we listen to it? But is the world of school the plexiglass of benches or is it the 16,000 teachers we guarantee this year? Research and investment in research, with a further 4,000 researchers in addition to the already deliberate 1,600? And did we listen to the world of work? We have reorganised and refinanced the Integration Fund, and we will probably do another ad hoc measure to date. We did, didn't we? I think so. It's hard to say otherwise. We may have missed some predictions, I say it before, but it is difficult to say otherwise. Above all, I repeat to the most rebellious, there are no different measures in the other European countries of the European Union. There are no different measures. As if there were an unwritten and unverbalized direction from the European Union on measures of this nature. With the decree I raise, we not only refinance a lot of what has been done in the past but we lay the foundations to ensure recovery and to make the best use of the recovery fund. That was our job. That's what we're gonna do. And we will do it for the good of Italy, not just for the good of the Government, which is a detail in life and condition that we are living. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u77	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u78	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, I should like to begin by thanking the President of the Pesco Commission for his speech this morning in the communication on the closure of the work of the 5th Commission, because he has denounced a surreal situation in which the two Chambers are living (probably also the case for the House of Members on other measures), namely the fact that the evaluation of the measures is not allowed, which is the right of the Members of Parliament and the political forces representing them. I have also listened carefully to the previous speech and I must admit that my colleague, Mr D'Arienzo, has made an official defence of the measure which is truly commendable. I can't find any other way to define it: a real argument. The decree-law that we are converting into law and on which in a few minutes the government is preparing, according at least to the unofficial and official news, to ask for confidence (it could still change its mind), as many have already said, has 55 billion more authorization to the debt, therefore 55 billion of deviation from the balance of the previous budget, and has effects that go well beyond the 70 billion, therefore remarkable, even with recovery compared to the previous ones. The measure, which was called "relaunch" but which actually had another name before (decree April), is a train with many wagons and intervenes practically on a whole series of sectors related to the emergency. In fact, it is not a decree-law to raise. Einaudi said that reality must have the courage to read it as it is, all together; then solutions can also divide us. Let us realize that this is a decree-law of emergency, not of revival, because at the moment it does not allow any glimpse of any plan for the future; it is not connected to anything except, rightly, the emergency. Forza Italia had declared, with the other forces of the center-right, the full availability to the collaboration when we were in the phase of discussion of the so-called decree cure Italy, waiting for this to be the April decree; the willingness to bring their own contribution of ideas, knowing that their contribution of ideas and proposals could also not be shared and therefore fall, rightly in respect of the majority-opposition relationship. In fact, there has been no response in the political relationship between majority and opposition, and it cannot be considered that negotiation with a few correction amendments adopted during the transition to the other House of our Parliament. It is therefore a decree-law still of emergency characterized always by a complete darkness on the future. The colossal dimensions certainly lead us, having dealt with all the themes, also to share individual interventions. Not all negative: it was a good intention to act on building renovations with the tax credit of 110%, although I have to say that, if we talk about building recovery, it makes no sense to exclude, at least in theory, those who would have either the intervention funds or the tax credit recoverable for the intervention. If it was a revival of construction, it was not a choice of welfare or welfare merit or sector punishment: it was and is an intervention that serves to give job. [[Applause.]] And therefore the work gives it to those who are most in a position to give it. At this point, it was also necessary to put the question of companies, which we had put in the amendments which - alas - did not come up, because they were not even evaluated in the Commission. This is a question for both companies and for real estate A1, A8 and A9, because it concerns the merit and the objective that a Government gives itself. We cannot always give ourselves two goals, one even contrasting with the other. It was obvious the need to cover the supplementary accounts and also the correction of the coffin by way of derogation: our political force at the end of February said that the coffin by way of derogation, with the procedures it had, created damage and did not have the conditions for the speed necessary to intervene; there was the correction with the decree, of which we take note, but we continue to denounce the disorder on the deadlines of tax and declaration. Today there will be an insurgency in September, Mr Vice-Minister: look that the Italians do not want to pay taxes, but they also want to have certainties of course, in order to make a planning of their own business and family conditions. It is therefore possible to evaluate an interest rate determined differently or a different graduation, but it cannot be assessed by the decree at the beginning of September, because it absolutely means creating a condition of complete uncertainty and insecurity. One of the first duties that I believe the government has is to create security and give guarantees, which means indicating paths. So give families the chance to plan their future: you said no to the fiscal pact and to fiscal peace, but of the 954 billion that are stranded and of which I believe at least 700 not any more questionable, what are you going to do? Let's remove the nail and remove some degenerations, even ideological or ideal (for another I have an ideological belonging, so I claim all the virtues, but often also defects). Do we want to deal with this? Do you want the government, on a bad occasion like this, also to try to put order instead of adding mess? The 113 measures mentioned, which serve to implement this document, with the step of public administration and the bureaucracy that we have - and I am speaking in the plural, because responsibility is never entirely on the one hand - I do not know when we will end them. We still do not have the compass: here we have the President of the Council of Ministers who is talking about lowering VAT; majority parties are talking about intervening on the tax wedge; others think that we should generalize with respect to the rate of 38%. Apart from the fact that perhaps, even here, recalling Einaudi, first you have to read the reality, because for example to have some effect with the lowering of the IMU (one point is about 4.3 billion) you should do it by at least five points. We do not know how the Italian commercial structure would respond. Let us take an example on the contrary: with the introduction of the euro of twenty years ago, the dollar bill has become a euro; was it so automatic that prices and therefore consumer benefits would fall? We do not know: then, even as President of the Council, we should think before we speak. I conclude quickly with a reasoning on the fiscal issue, to understand if you want to go to the taxation of people or consumption: this is fundamental. Now, it seems to me that the risk is all there is now: we will have a very high drop in gross domestic product (estimated at over 10%); we will have to act decisively to facilitate - and not prevent - recruitment and change the rules of fixed-term work. Is there anyone who's already tried to hire an employee in here? An individual company, which needs an employee for two or three months, desists, because the holder has to take a month of courses and then has to have the employee take a month of courses and therefore it is better to leave and give up the clerk. Are we gonna fix this? I do not think that my solution should be the right one, but Parliament and those who govern must also pose these problems, because otherwise we do not get out of it. On this, therefore, there is a complete lack of a link with an organic policy. [[Call the president back.]] The subject of the debate that the House will be engaging in this afternoon is part of this and must be contextualised, because it will concern the part of investment and development, but the extraordinary part in relation to the multiannual financial framework of the European Union is linked to the Covid-19 and the consequences of the pandemic on Italian and European gross domestic product. In conclusion, Mr President, all this has made us aware of the interdependence between our economy and those of other European countries, not the frugal ones, which try to frugalize something, and has allowed, first of all, the Germans, to understand that if Italy is not strong, they also forgive us. This is one of the facts that our President-in-Office of the Council will have to bear in mind in the negotiations over the next few days. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u79	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u80	Mr President, I have asked to speak, because I think that we cannot accept any reasoning and any reflection in this House and that a reflection should be made instead. I have heard, in this debate, things that I believe should not be part of a parliamentary debate. Unfortunately, I have heard a number of opposition representatives tell of a scenario in which, on their side there are those who work, while the majority is made up of brazen people and people who do not know what work and effort are: it has been said in several interventions. It has been said in other speeches that the majority is made by people who are accustomed to living at night, to acting in the dark and to having no transparency. I think this cannot be accepted. [[Applause]] for a reason that concerns our democracy. Then I will say what did not work: there are objectively methodological problems and there is objectively a problem of the functioning of bicameralism. However, we cannot accept a caricature of our debate. I do not think it is useful for the country, if much of the opposition chooses this figure, preferring to mock and shake problems, instead of confronting the merit and helping to solve them. I think that's a problem. Colleagues, you have raised so many problems of democracy, but I raise this problem: does the country need an opposition that stirs up the problems, instead of trying to solve them? [[Applause]] You have evoked a future and told a country that is starving, but it is not. The country is miserable, there are many who are suffering, but in this country no one is starving, for the measures - even the one at our examination - that the government has put on the field. You have explained to us that the measures envisaged (integration fund, bonuses of 600 euros, 1,000 euros) are welfare. Make up your minds! Let us understand what the opposition wants: if we are to be close to the people who suffer, to those people who risk not being able to eat because the income has decreased with lockdown or we have to do something else. Say it, though. You can't say everything and the opposite of everything. It cannot be said that this country risks having many families in dramatic conditions and then explain that, however, those same families should not be helped. In the same way, you have evoked dramatic scenarios compared to our economy, but you are always ready to change your opinion - I saw it again today - depending on what it is worth to do some propaganda and fuel criticism of the government. I'm impressed by what I heard today about the Motorways affair. I have heard statements that I am the opposite of what was said only yesterday. Yesterday it was explained by many who have spoken today that a compromise had to be found, a solution that would protect the public interest, work, therefore employment, and at the same time intervene to make the responsibilities of those who had them pay. Today it is said that this measure is not good for exactly the same reasons. We can't work like this. I believe that criticism of the method is right. Criticism - which is not new - is right for the fact that most of the measures can now be discussed only in one of the two chambers; but that is not the issue. Let us compare ourselves, when we can, on merit, and merit is not what you have told us. I have heard only one intervention from the opposition call for an extraordinary, anticyclical measure, which is the 110% bonus on ecobonus and security. I haven't heard anyone recall that already hundreds of thousands of families have requested and gotten the famous holiday bonus. I have not heard anyone say that those who have suffered the crisis will be able to pay their taxes in September, not July. I have not heard anyone remember that in this measure there is a lot of money that will go - and they are already coming because these are already concrete measures - to Italian companies. This is happening. It's a decree-law, it's not talk. These are concrete actions that are being taken. That's the truth. I'll finish quickly. Cassa Integrazione, 600 euros, 1,000 euros for autonomous and VAT matches, emergency income, blockade of evictions: these are all measures to avoid the scenario, which we all fear here, of a country brought to its knees and of families brought to their knees by the crisis. Credits guaranteed to companies, acceleration of payments of public administration's debts (12 billion), funding lost to all companies: they are measures that say that we want to relaunch the economy of this country, help companies, that we have an idea of the development of the country that looks to the job, the environment, to the livability of the cities, but above all that at this moment feels the duty to be close to the citizens in difficulty and who suffer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u81	Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u82	Mr President, as always, two things are missing in this House: Ministers and time. [[Applause.]] We have not seen any ministers on a day's work and, with reference to time, it is always too late to do anything. I just listened to the previous speaker, but after 1,500 amendments did you not understand what was written? Do you come to this House and ask us to tell you what we want, but is not 1,500 amendments enough? [[Applause]] You need a good one to explain them to you, because it's impossible. Tell us what we have to do to make you understand. I don't really know. As my previous Group colleagues have already said, this decree began in April, it stumbled, it arrived in May, it fell in June, it rolled up ruinously and it arrived in July and on 18 July this decree-law expires. We can't even discuss it. We did not even have time in the Commission to read it, except for ten minutes to give an opinion. We are talking about the decree-law that should make the history of the decrees, with 266 articles, plus the encores and tris and let's put what we want, and we didn't even have 20 minutes to analyze it together. What are we talking about, gentlemen? [[Applause]] Meanwhile, outside, in the real world, they have closed companies, the integration fund has not been seen, and what they are waiting for is still the April integration fund, not the July one. The power of fire has become impotence, the gesture of love asked the banks, which arrived later, was a pat on the shoulder, because it did not come. After all, there was nothing else to expect from the bankers' friends. At home there are millions of Italians, men and women who feel teased, but you don't listen to them, you don't want to listen to them just as you don't want to listen to us. There are millions of productive activities, small and medium-sized enterprises, artisans, lawyers, accountants, farms in the agricultural chain, all people whose activities will no longer open tomorrow. Tell the Italians, tell them what you are doing, but it must be made clear: you are doing 55 billion public debt. You're wasting this money. You could do what you never had the courage to do, a flat tax for everyone at 15%, with 15 billion and the post-Covid country would be split. [[Applause]] So, on the other hand, you made 55 billion subsidies, income of nothingness and then pentaidiocy of pentaidiocies: the scooter. But guys, the world doesn't need a scooter, it needs to work. [[Applause]] When they said in the Commission that this was the document of history, they were right: with 266 articles, to the eye and cross it will take 130-150 implementing decrees and four or five months to run this decree, and do you know what will happen in these four to five months? The country will die waiting for the money that will never come. You are undermining funding from the European Structural Funds, knowing that the duty to be paid immediately afterwards is called conditionality, control and spending commitment. By the way, can any of you tell me where the road maps for the actual allocation of these funds are? Can any of you tell me with certainty whether Italy will be a net perceptor? If the guarantees for future funding are linked to the EU budget, which is still under discussion, not only will the time lag longer, but we will continue to be net contributors, and that is all. I would like to remind you of just one thing before concluding, Mr President, because the Minister is not there anyway, so I address you or undersecretary Castaldi, who is always present: the best of the operations in the history of medicine on a tome of 200 and passes articles has succeeded perfectly, but alas the patient is dead and alas the patient was called Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u83	Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u84	Mr President, we are talking, as many have said, about this decree-law that invests 55 billion and I want to start this speech by telling an episode that happened to me by train, while I was on my way from Salerno to Rome. I met a guy I know, who's a very small businessman in the catering industry, and he thanked me. He thanked me because, along with his accountant from whom he was helped, he managed to have the resources that we made available: he managed to have the loan within the 25,000 euros, he managed to have the 600 euros, he managed to have the contribution lost. [[Applause]] This means that the things we talk about are sometimes far from reality, so often when we talk we should at least ask the citizens, who are the real actors of our economy, if the measures that have been put in place have brought them benefits and effects. This has happened to me, but events like this happen to all of us. Speaking of all this we refer to the fact that for many years we have been facing an incredible crisis due to a huge increase in inequalities, not only in Italy, all over the world. We know perfectly well how in the Anglo-Saxon-speaking countries inequalities have exploded, more than all in the United States, but in all the Anglo-Saxon-speaking countries; in Europe, fortunately, Latin culture has reduced this increase in inequalities, which has also occurred. We must realize what the world is and what the Covid has brought us; it has done nothing but blow up something that was already there. Before I heard about the fact that there is welfare; but the income of citizenship and the emergency income included in the decree-law under consideration are not measures of welfare, but of reducing inequalities. [[Applause]] It is a ferocious, deep action, what was referred to - I have some old memories - a gentleman named Carlo Rosselli, who spoke of liberal socialism. Perhaps we should remember what liberal socialism Carlo Rosselli was talking about, which distinguished itself from Marxist theories to go in the direction of that socialism well represented by the most famous, the most expensive (I think dear for the whole Assembly) President of the Republic called Sandro Pertini, when he said that there is no freedom if you do not fight and you do not get social justice, because the two words must be merged. [[Applause]] Only if you reduce the problems of hunger, you can be free. In addition, compared to the actions put in place, someone speaks of statization. Gaber said someone was communist because he wanted to statize everything and someone was communist because he did not know the civil servants, parastatal and similar, but this is the quote of a song. However, we are faced with this situation. Then some strange things happen. Today, for example, we read that the European Commission lost a lawsuit against the Irish Government and Apple because the Dutch Government had told this company that it could pay taxes that in 2003 were 1% of European profits, in 2001 it was 0.5% and in 2014 it was 0.005 percent. The European Commission has lost this appeal, but then we must all work together to explain what we are talking about. To return to that social justice speech we were talking about earlier, if we want to put an action in place, it must be strong and serious. Then it is very unusual to hear some of the opposition's representatives. If I remember correctly, their leader was once a Padan communist who also quoted Berlinguer, who turned to the grave 150,000 times. [[Applause]] to hear this way about flat tax, which means you don't charge taxes to the people you have and make them pay to the people you don't have. What could Berlinguer say in the face of such a statement by a Padan communist? It makes me laugh, it makes me laugh a lot, because then you should remember the story and, when you make statements, know who you talk about. The story needs to be studied and if we study it we would also remember, for example, that if I remember correctly when Mr. Salvini was in the 9th Commission in the House voted the transformation of the contract concession of Autostrade for Italy (which would be the highway concession) into law, blundering that provision and inserting the famous articles 9 and 9-a, on which there was a very strong negotiation. This negotiation has led to a society with stratospheric gains returning to the hands of its citizens: that is what we have done. [[Applause]] It's a simple thing: it doesn't mean to statize, it means to prevent someone from having a stratospheric gain, which we have already denounced in an exposed fact to the DAC in November 2017, when the concessions were still secreted, but we happened to be able to read them. In fact, the whole Commission's public works, Senate communication in the last legislature asked the President, at the time Altero Matteoli, who is no longer there, to have copies of the acts. The acts were sent to the Commission with a letter signed by architect Coletta, who was the general manager of the supervisory service, in which it was written that, since the acts were of economic and patrimonial importance to society, they were not to be disseminated and were secret. Strangely, the acts of ASPI were secret, but not the acts of ADR, which are always of Atlantia, which were public: an incredible disparity. Reading those acts and transcribing them by hand one by one - unfortunately those acts I could read because, immersively or perhaps deservedly, I have done the job of the professional free engineer for many years and I also wrote them, certainly not those of Autostrade (maybe, as an engineer I mean) - I presented an exhibit, from which all this was born, in which was highlighted that incredible gain. Today we have spoken: it has been a long battle, it has been very complicated and only with the pressure that the Movimento 5 Stars has made we have reached the same result, perhaps on a different path. We have come to the result of returning a public good into the hands of those who possess that good, because that good was built with the money of the citizens. [[Applause]] It's about the citizens' money. Do we want to remember when Autostrade was privatised what the concession provided for? It was 1999, many years ago. In that concession it was written that the revenues expected in 2018 would be 1,7 billion. But if we see revenue today, it's 3,9 billion. Maintenance was expected to be EUR 235 million and in 2018 it was EUR 270 million; more than double the revenues, but maintenance remained the same. The cost of labour has risen from 350 million to 270 million: this provided for the concession. Who is the only depositary who can take such a strong concession, which generates so many profits, and redistribute them in the perspective I was talking about before, that of Pertini or Rosselli? I remind all the members of the majority, because at the end of the day these things can unite us: the aim is to make sure that the income generated is redistributed, because we must combat inequalities. With this decree we have intervened on many things, of course I am not telling them, but we have intervened on this: it is the beginning of a perspective, which does not mean to state everything, but to give back power in the hands of those who must have it. [[Applause]] And the only ones who must have power are always citizens, never private societies. They've been doing their dirty things for so many years, and now they can't do it anymore. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u85	The general debate is closed. As the representative of the Government does not intend to intervene in replying, assessing the time, circumstances and glucose, the Presidency decides to suspend its work until 3 p.m. and then resume with President Conte's communications with a view to the European Council. The debate on the decree-law on the agenda will resume after the vote on the relevant resolutions. (The sitting was suspended at 13.59 p.m. and resumed at 15.03 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u86	I communicate that, as agreed between the Groups, the convocations of the Permanent Commissions for renewal referred to in Article 21 (7) of the Regulation, already provided for at 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., are postponed to another date.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u87	The next item is... [[Applause]] Excuse me. [[Comments. Applause]] That sounds... [[Applause.]] Please, the President of the Council should speak. The next item is: "Communications from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the extraordinary European Council of 17 and 18 July 2020 and subsequent discussion" I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u88	Mr President of the Senate, kind senators and kind senators, on Friday 17 and Saturday 18 July I will attend the extraordinary European Council which, for the first time since February, will be held again in Brussels. The Council therefore returns to take place in the presence, recovering the normality that the Covid-19 has upset, along with the daily life of Europe and the whole world. This extraordinary European Council stems from the European Commission's proposals of 27 May. I would remind you of this: a fund is planned for the recovery, next generation EU, of 750 billion euros, of which 500 billion grants and 250 billion loans, as well as, of course, the definition of the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and also, I must say, the Franco-German proposal - which dates back to 18 May - which was a very important preliminary step because it has nevertheless outlined a powerful European recovery plan. Both the European Commission's proposals and the Franco-German proposal are consistent with what Italy has said since the beginning of the crisis with the utmost determination in the Community. Never before do we have to acknowledge that the institutions of the European Union have shown sensitivity to the instruments with which my Government, already in the early stages of the pandemic, has tried to read and interpret the nature and extent of the challenge we had and still face. Never before can we say that Italy has made a decisive contribution to directing the perspective in which to place the answers that Europe is called to offer in order to live up to its history, its civilization and its destiny. I recall, in particular, the letter we have written, together with eight other Member States, since March last year to call for innovative financial instruments in a common European debt framework. On the other hand, the Covid-19 crisis is unprecedented and requires extraordinary actions and measures. The crisis caused by the pandemic is a symmetrical crisis which must also be addressed, if necessary, with asymmetrical solutions, in a responsible and mature perspective of solidarity and redistribution. Not only a Union between Member States, but even more unity between Member States. The European Council must live up to this courageous vision. This objective must be of epochal significance: to relaunch the European economy in order to draw the future of our continent for the coming decades. Only united will we succeed in making Europe again strong, again protagonist, competitive in the world. National responses would be anachronistic and ineffective. The crisis from Covid-19 shows that we must offer citizens solutions, we must offer remedies, not new fears or the illusion of an anachronistic return to a small ancient world, dominated by egoism and identity closures, a world far from safe, far from protected, indeed much more exposed to the risk of an inexorable decline. Of course, we must be aware that truly economical and rigorous visions would only give us the illusion of reality, to use the words of Carlo Morandi, a historian very sensitive to the prospects advanced by European integration. What is at stake is not only the functioning of the single market, the maintenance of European economies, which are becoming increasingly interdependent, the defence of European value chains, economic and social convergence. The pillars on which the European Union was built are also at stake, on which, thanks to the intuition and vision of the great post-war Europeans, the integration process has helped to ensure a long period of peace and economic growth, a period never known by previous generations. The pillars on which the identity of the European building has been built are now put at risk by the crisis by Covid-19, which hit the Continent after two serious financial crises, sharpening even more the imbalances and economic divergences between the Member States. If we do not want to be overwhelmed, we must act courageously, put in place extraordinary measures. We have no choice. The proposals put forward by the Commission, chaired by Mr Ursula von der Leyen, are moving in this direction; moreover, they have been confirmed, at least in the basic objectives, by the proposal for conclusions presented by the President of the European Council, Mr Charles Michel, on Friday 10 July, following the various consultations he conducted with the 27 Heads of State or Government. It must be acknowledged that, in a completely new scenario, the European Union, with the contribution of all its institutions, has already made fundamental decisions with a certain speed. As David Sassoli, President of the European Parliament, said on the opening day of the national consultation, the first policies against the emergency put in place by the European institutions have been inspired by a vision that is already far-reaching in the direction of change. A short-sighted policy, inspired by neoliberal canons, a narrow vision of competitiveness and competition, has already been considered unfit to deal with and deal with the crisis. I recall the most important decisions we have taken: firstly, the suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact, through the application of the general escape clause; then the flexibility granted to the State aid scheme; and secondly, the launch by the European Central Bank of the so-called EUR 750 billion PEPP programme. I would remind you that in June the ECB itself decided to increase the programme by an additional EUR 600 billion to a total of EUR 1 350 billion. [[Applause]] I still remember the use of flexibility in the use of cohesion resources; the European Investment Bank (EIB) plan to activate up to EUR 40 billion of funding for small and medium-sized enterprises. The three security lines for workers, businesses and states, endorsed by the Heads of State and Government of the European Union on 23 April, on the basis of the Eurogroup report of 9 April, have been added to these measures. This is a substantial package, of EUR 540 billion, structured as follows: a European fund to support national instruments to combat unemployment (Sure) of EUR 100 billion; a pan-European EIB fund, which can mobilise up to EUR 200 billion; then there is the pandemic crisis support, within the precautionary credit line of the Stability Mechanism, of EUR 240 billion, to which euro area Member States may decide to resort. It is precisely the European Council of 23 April that gave a clear political signal to the establishment of the recovery fund, expressly defined, as requested - let me stress this - by the Italian side, which is necessary and urgent. We can say that the decision is the result of a negotiation process in which Italy has played a fundamental role, a driving role. [[Applause]] This was an unprecedented decision, because it marked an unprecedented opening to a European fiscal policy instrument based on a common financial intervention principle. I would point out that the recovery fund proposal changes the terms of the relationship between the Commission and national governments: it is now the individual states that are called upon to bear greater responsibility, indicating their plans to relaunch, their path of reform and investment. Now it is up to us, Heads of State and Government of the 27 Member States, to take as courageous a decision as quickly as possible, so that the next generation EU and the next multiannual financial framework can be translated into concrete measures and actions. Our common home is able to offer benefits for everyone, but if we get out of the negotiating perspective of the zero sum game and gain awareness of a different negotiating perspective. When the foundations of the European building are in danger, no state can take advantage of it at the expense of others. We must all be aware that if some more difficult European countries were to succumb to the crisis, the richest countries would not benefit from it. In this grave twist of European history, traditional negotiation itself is doomed to failure: today we all win or lose. [[Applause]] That is why we believe it is crucial that the European Council's decision is taken by July, so as soon as possible, and that it is not debased on a logic and a downward compromise. This would be unacceptable not only from a political and economic point of view, but also from a moral point of view. Such a scenario would certainly not be desirable. I have already said this in this House - if you remember - on 17 June: the tens of thousands of European victims of the Covid-19 do not deserve it, as do the families, young people and businesses who are facing the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. In recent weeks I have carried out intense diplomatic activity, in the last week also with various meetings and visits, to discuss with my counterparts the need to take as soon as possible a high profile decision based on the principles of responsibility and solidarity, ambitious, capable of really taking unprecedented support for the European economy. The next generation EU will have to live up to the present and future challenges, and the European Parliament, whose political consensus, like that of the national parliaments, remains essential for immediate activation and therefore to respond promptly to the urgent needs that no Member State can face in isolation and alone. In a European spirit, therefore, I will continue to work - as always in the course of this crisis - so that the logic of a community of interests based on shared values prevails at the table of the European Council. [[Applause]] It is essential that the final result, with regard to the volume and composition of large-scale grants, i.e. grants, is consistent with the proposal currently on the table and that the principle of extraordinary long-term financing by common European debt is preserved. Other priority aspects of the agreement on next generation EU, on which the European Council will have to find a balance here too, but without wasting precious time in negotiations that trigger or slow down the overall agreement, are the following: the allocation criteria must not be distorted, because they ensure the effective and effective support of countries, regions and sectors most affected by the crisis Covid-19; very critical is also the issue of governance: the proposal on the table guarantees the close connection with the European semester, with the specific recommendations for the Commission's country; we consider acceptable the proposed rules related to the respect of the rule of law and those related to the ambitious European objectives in the fight against climate change. It is also essential to preserve the centrality of the social and green objectives. I am referring, as far as the first aspect is concerned, to social cohesion, to the fight against the multiple inequalities that the crisis - as we know - has exacerbated, to the support of gender equality, to the reconciliation of living and working times, to the mitigation of the effects of unemployment. As for the second aspect, the improbable start of the European economic recovery must continue to consider the development of the green economy, digitisation and new technologies as central: all key factors in the coming decades to make European economies competitive, in the perspective outlined by the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and with a view to a new industrial strategy. From this point of view, I welcome the call made by fifty national and European parliamentarians, also aimed at directing as much as possible the resources of the plan in favour of the new generations, through a courageous investment in culture, education, social mobility and gender equality. [[Applause.]] With regard to the agreement on the next multiannual financial framework, there is no political and economic space to pretend to live in ordinary times. There are no conditions for negotiation for weeks or months, such as - we must confess - we were prepared to do at the beginning of the year, in the European Council on individual technical aspects, if anything only attentive to national convenience or the preservation of anachronistic privileges. Of course, while we are taking a constructive approach to promoting a fast and high-profile agreement, we will continue to protect our priorities with particular regard to cohesion and the common agricultural policy. The new seven-year European budget must not in any way give up the support of the sectors and sections of the population most affected and, consequently, the maximum centrality must be reserved to the principles of economic and territorial cohesion, social dialogue, transformation towards a resilient, sustainable, socially just and competitive economy. As for those whom I have called anachronistic privileges, I shall dwell on the rebates. You know my position and that of the government because I have already announced it before. Here, all our even partial flexibility with regard to the political need for some Member States to maintain rebates can only be conditioned - we must be clear - to a full and effective opening by those countries to a fast and high-profile agreement on next generation EU. [[Applause.]] As far as budgetary revenue is concerned, we must continue to pursue certain objectives with ambition, including with regard to new own resources, which are the inescapable instrument - also recognised by the Commission and in the same draft conclusions as President Michel - if we are to promote truly effective, lasting European policies and compensate for the social and economic divergences between Member States and the current internal imbalances in the single market. All the considerations that have been made so far relate to the high political value of a common European commitment, at last also in financial terms, to relaunch the economies and make them resilient. If the European Union is trying to make the crisis from Covid-19 an opportunity, the more true this is for Italy. I am convinced that this crisis, health and economic at the same time, has brought to light many critical issues that block the Italian economic system and that politics has not known or could not solve it effectively and lastingly. The acute social and economic suffering of our country can and must allow a choral effort on the part of all its components to undertake - and this time to the end - a wide-ranging recovery path. As the President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said, Italy has surprised the world at many moments in its history: Europe now needs this Italy, a stronger Italy. It is in this spirit that the Government is committed to carrying out a credible, structured and fundamental reform programme, with a medium to long-term perspective, with a legislative horizon and the ambition to make Italy resilient even in the face of possible future crises, which we do not want. Within this reform perspective, we are at the same time committed to defining the national recovery and resilience plan that we will present in Brussels after the summer break. We will be the first to monitor the speedy implementation of our reforms and planned investments, because it is in our interest to do so. At these crucial stages in our history, including in Europe, Parliament's involvement will be the greatest. [[Applause.]] Dear President, kind senators and senators, Robert Schumann said in his statement of history with his name: Europe will not be able to make itself at once, nor will it be built together; it will arise from concrete achievements, which first create de facto solidarity. Well, the crisis from Covid-19 makes solidarity in fact a moral obligation, even before it is political, and implies an unavoidable anchoring of national interest to the fundamental values of the European project: peace, stability, well-being, democracy and the protection of fundamental rights. In conclusion, I am therefore preparing to take part in the extraordinary European Council on 17 and 18 July determined to implement the next generation EU, the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, in full coherence with the European Commission's proposals, for the benefit of all European citizens and especially those who are most suffering the social and economic consequences of the crisis. I hope that I can receive from this House a strong support for the commitment that we are making to Italy in Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u89	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u90	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, those who, like me, in this House claim to be pro-European - we are not a few - and have always been aware of the need for European sovereignism: I do not see any other possible, with the globalisation that exists today, for any European country. For those who, like me, are deeply pro-European, there is no doubt that the premise with which he presented himself to this Parliament is to be shared. Europe could die or rise again: now, let us wait to say that it has risen, if nothing else, by skirmishing. But without a doubt in this crisis of the Covid-19, Europe has shown the pride of wanting to exist [[Applause]] and awareness, ladies and gentlemen, that no country can go on alone. I think it is very short-sighted to believe that on the misfortunes of some European country it can live and prosper the economy of some other European country. The strongest countries need the carriages to proceed together, the train to go on and no one has any particular misfortunes from this affair. Europe is a bit like the old Polish Communist Party, uncertain between an old order, which could not defend, and a new one that could not build, and this dramatic affair has given Europe the opportunity to wake up. The negotiation that the Italian Government is following in Europe, according to the Autonomy Group, is correct, it responds to Parliament's mandate, to the European spirit and, colleagues, to national interests. In fact, none of us is under any illusion that the negotiations at the European Council are a gala lunch: they are not, they are hard negotiations, sometimes exasperated, sometimes endless, and this is part of the rules of the game. No one is naive enough to think of going to Europe and receiving applause from other Community partners. There is no doubt, too, that the negotiation - this is substance and not form - will have to close as soon as possible and the implementation of the measures will have to materialize in the short term: endless negotiations would not be admissible, times and ways are not independent variables. I also agree with the President-in-Office of the Council that the next generation EU allocation criteria must not be distorted, that a balance is needed between the grants guaranteed by the European public debt and the loans that individual States will be able to use and that the definition of this deal should be declined together with the multiannual financial framework, in which areas of conservation of anachronistic privileges for some states persist. Let me be clear on this point: we must remove the concerns of the so-called frugal countries. I said this at a past Senate meeting: the concern of knowing how to spend well the money that we will receive from Europe, must be ours, is the concern of our children and not only of the countries that are frugal. [[Applause]] However, we cannot accept moral lessons from those who give tax privileges, to magnetize allocations of businesses and finances on their national territory. [[Applause]] Let us be very clear about this: no one is smarter than the others. We're all smart or nobody's smart. Let us say this: we are all quite demented to understand that moral lessons are unacceptable. They won't be roses and flowers. We must be clear: we will also have to accept checks on our projects. So I would like to make two points here. Firstly, Mr President, I would like to express, from the Italian Senate, my appreciation for Chancellor Merkel and President Macron. I believe that their two countries, Germany and France, [[Applause]] They do not deserve the easy irony, which occasionally, superficially, is addressed to them by our country, because they are pushing on the right side. Finally, there is a problem that concerns Italy, it concerns us. You spoke of opportunities that open up, you are right, but, ladies and gentlemen, opportunities decline together with responsibilities, and the responsibility is all ours: to have clear plans, immediately enforceable; not to lose ourselves in long delays and delays; not to open endless debates such as that of the ESM, which divides majority and opposition. I see, in fact, that exactly as the majority is divided over this, the opposition is divided (but it is not a great satisfaction because at this moment it governs the majority, not the opposition). It is the majority that must have the lucidity not to get lost in endless discussions, with the ideological cages of the past. We cannot see the ESM as something that no longer exists, because the conditionality that was there is no longer there, because the ideological lenses and cages with which we have seen these issues - perhaps even a few years ago - are no longer right to exist today. Finally, I want to say something that concerns you too, Mr Conte, that I have seen that in some way you have made an appropriate advance with a statement in recent days. You said that after the summer break we will present our plan in Brussels: it is understandable. I believe that it is up to us, Parliament, if we want to recover the centrality of Parliament, which we often evoke in words: we must use the summer break not only and not so much for holidays, but above all to examine those measures that will go to Brussels after the summer break, because Parliament, in this moment of dramatic social and economic crisis, must set an example for the country of being a step forward and not ten steps back. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u91	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u92	Mr President, man can be said to be free when he is not an instrument of others, but he is an independent centre of life. On this principle was born the European dream, that Europe of peoples, free and united in diversity, which Altiero Spinelli conceived as ready to trace a path of common and shared growth, in the name of a solidarity that of so many nations was destined to make a single people. In all honesty, I can't say if it was a utopian dream, but I know that that noble inspiration was betrayed in the name of logic that little - very little - has to do with solidarity, and that they respond more and more to the desire to impose utilitarian visions and abstract rules lowered from above. We now have the opportunity to recover that ancient spirit, to show that belonging to Europe means marrying its principles to the full, with the conviction that it is part of a common home that is not only a place, but a community, that shares difficulties and joys, respecting rules that do not respond to the desire to make a nation the instrument of other nations, depriving it of its freedom. The recovery fund must be approved immediately, we need fresh and lost resources, without conditions, within the year. We cannot accept compromises on the downside. Obviously these resources cannot come from the European Stability Mechanism (ESM): a perverse instrument that, in the name of a supposed frugality, would end up choking precisely the countries most affected by the health and economic emergency, depriving them of the autonomy that every center of life needs to be truly free. Let us not make this mistake, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. We do not fall into the trap, as Europe has put in place the necessary resources, which, however, are needed as soon as possible not to frustrate the enormous sacrifices to which our compatriots have been called, which do not deserve to be offended by countries that make austerity the instrument of their own interests. We need a truly competitive Europe. We need not tax havens, but a minimum European wage, a green new deal that says goodbye to the fossil and a true digital revolution. Europe will be able to change if we all have courage and if you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have courage. We will be at your side in this process of giving dignity to the Europe of the peoples and not of the lobbyists. We cannot deviate from the Commission's proposal, bearing in mind the principle of exceptional and long-term financing by common European debt, with an agreement that will come very quickly so that, after the necessary steps, the implementation of next generation EU and the next multiannual financial framework can soon be achieved. Only in this way can individual economies have a prospect of growth and Europe have a future of unity and prosperity. We have all appreciated the firmness with which, while respecting the different sensibilities, he has been able to support and support a line that is the only one capable of guaranteeing a true community of interests, responsive to truly shared values. A closure on next generation EU is not justifiable, because it would compromise the economic recovery of the countries and sectors most affected by the current crisis and most in need of protection. Growth and work can only start again if we take the opportunity to change strategies, putting in the field important economic resources to strengthen public and private investments linked to convincing projects and reforms, which give confidence and hope. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not only the reputation of Italy, as you know, but also the future of Europe, of our fellow citizens and of the generations to come. We trust you. I'm sure he won't let us down. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u94	President Conte, I did not vote for your government's confidence, because I was sure that the Mephistophelic demon in Brussels would impose its choices and in some way affect its future path. That's how it was. That demon today evokes the solutions and tomorrow will force you to give up your soul. As long as the soul is yours, amen. But the problem is that the soul is of Italian citizens: workers, families, entrepreneurs and professionals. I do not believe in the European Union at all and I do not believe in monetary union either, but I feel sorry to see Italy begging the countries of the so-called North axis for some morphine. We know that I am for the exit and I hope that we can still have some dialectic with regard to the subject of Europe. You continue to suffer the charm of wrong models on fallacious financial assumptions. But be careful to say that there will be a lot of money, because otherwise that money, one euro for one euro, will be asked by the real economy. Each of the Italian citizens will be entitled to ask you: why, since there is a mountain of money, do I not get that money? Unfortunately in September you will see the wounds of this country, of the real country. But I take for good what for you is the mountain of money and I tell you to be careful, because a lot of money and a mountain of money is different from "unlimited money": this is the big difference, this is the challenge. And I would add that the unlimited nature of the funds should be monetised by the European Central Bank: this is the great proof of maturity. The economist Paul De Grauwe, who is certainly not a Eurosceptic - quite the opposite - is a socialist and is a liberal pro-market - he continues to repeat - and with him many other economists - that the money you sell today as the solution will not end up in the availability, precisely, of the real economy. Then I invite you not to struggle to replicate the efforts of Sisyphus, because the rock you bring to the top of the mountain is destined to return to the initial point: that is the torture of Brussels. Be careful. Forget the illusions of the MES and the recovery fund. I repeat that I do not believe in the Unionist design, but if you really want proof of love and maturity from Brussels, ask the ECB to buy forever and monetize the deficit. It is the text of the resolution that I propose to you. Money is needed now, no bills to pay and homework to do. If you don't, then your failure will be right for anyone like me to ask for Italexit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u95	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u96	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to begin with a statement, despite the previous speaker: Europe is there, with all its institutions. The President of the European Council Michel said that the recovery fund should not be reduced to EUR 750 billion (that is the figure). Europe is with the European Central Bank and, despite Mrs Lagarde's slippage, the ECB is doing its job. And those who say otherwise, namely that Europe's money is not coming, say something that is not true, because without the European Central Bank today we would have already failed. Compared to the claim to buy 1,350 billion titles, it's not change. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is also the President of the European Commission, who - I am convinced of this - is deeply aware that in a Europe without solidarity there is no end and no impact on the fate of Italians, but the fate of European countries ends. Mr President, allow me, however, to express my doubts about your report, which remain because it insists on a solitary path. You have issued three decrees since the outbreak of this pandemic. None of us conceals the dramatic numbers, which are from war conflict. But the three approved decree-laws - the care Italy, the liquidity decree and the decree I raise - are not bringing any of the benefits you hoped for. In fact, hiding behind the fact that everything is going well is a hypocrisy and, then, yes, there will be the apocalypse, as the director of the Daily Fact said. Mr President, I do not want to go into the 400 billion mark, of which only 51 are actually earmarked for investment, but there is no doubt that those decrees are not producing the desired effects. So what's the answer? The answer is to make it clear to the country that you can't do it on your own. If you continue on this path, you risk crashing. President Casini said well: if, on the one hand, we must not in any way point out who in Europe wants to teach us and say what is the instrument that we must adopt - we are the first to defend it - at the same time we must make self-criticism. We are credible before the Member States of the European Union. I want to say this quite frankly: France and Germany are not our enemies, but the co-founders of a great plan, of a utopia that has become reality. If we continue to treat the Member States as our enemies, I do not think we will find any benefit. I am pleased, Mr President-in-Office, that we have learned from this bloody pandemic: none of us can do it alone and we are not in the wake of any of the members of your government who, not many years ago, but a year and a half ago went to Paris to legitimise the yellow vests. I am glad that today there has been a conversion to Brussels, an important conversion, does not mean that we are entering the system, but that we are putting our ideas on the tables that matter. We want to insist on this, Mr President-in-Office, as on the fact that Italy, unfortunately, is incapable of spending money, because it is true that we are the third contributor to the European Union, but it is also true that we are among the last European countries to spend that money. Allow me to mention the example of the Marches, the last region that manages to spend the money destined by the European Union (just 20%), whose President is allowed to say: "Yes, it is true, the seven years have expired, but we have three more years to spend them." This is the most plastic testimony of how far there is between those who govern the territories and the needs of those territories. Mr Conte, allow me to say quite frankly that we would have expected a different attitude today. The head of the opposition of a member country, belonging to the centre-right, took the floor in the Chamber and said: Our President-in-Office's fortune coincides with the fortune of our people. We are deeply convinced that we wish you luck, but we would like you to change your attitude and humbly assume the awareness that you are not going anywhere alone: let us think about what happened with this pandemic. I have to say quite frankly, but also with some self-criticism, that we belong to that democratic Christian and liberal culture, so when the President of the Council sits at an international negotiating table, we hope that the negotiations will be successful with regard to national interests. At the same time, however, we ask you if you really are up to spending those funds. That is the question that you must ask yourself, in the first instance, and then we as parliamentarians, because it does not matter to anyone outside who is responsible: outside this House in September-October, if social uprisings were to unhappinessed, they would not distinguish between majority and opposition. That is why, then, we do not ask in the most absolute way for an iniqucio: we simply ask that its Government and its majority have the humility to involve the opposition, because we represent the vast part of the Italian people. If you insist on the line of loneliness, Mr President, let me tell you that it will not go far. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u97	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u98	Mr President, I immediately come back to the rhetorical question put by Senator Saccone: no, Senator Saccone, I am not up to it and I am unable to govern and spend the money needed to get the country back on track in this situation. I'll give you an indication right away, dear President Conte. It is enough that you appear the voluminous text of the decree relaunch, which is the result of the work of the Government, which has become a sort of omnibus decree, in which you have brought everything together, until you even lose its meaning and from which will come at least a hundred implementing decrees, with the four pages of the measure of the Federal Republic of Germany. I have the two files in my hand: one is the Federal Republic of Germany's order, the other is its decree. This is the comparison that you are putting to the Italians today and going to Europe. [[Applause]] : we have 130 billion in one file, 55 billion in the other. There's nothing to laugh about, President, but I would ask you for a courtesy: tell your press office, perhaps at Casalino himself, to update your speech because it continues to be a bit boring after months, months and months. [[Applause.]] And perhaps I tell him to update it, bearing in mind that since February it is the first time he has come to Parliament to ask for a political address from the Italian Parliament. [[Applause.]] February, March, April, May, June, we are in July and she is from March that says next week the money arrives, next week arrives the rescue plan. You've taken care of Colao. You have taken ranks and hordes of scientists to go and build a plan that ended up in the drawer and that in the text of the decree I raise is not found, President Conte. Do you understand that the comparison between the two measures does not work? Do you understand that your government doesn't work? Do you understand that the country doesn't start it again? Do you understand that? If you understand this, you can go to Europe to represent Italy; otherwise the risk is that you will go to Europe and simply make our country look bad, which instead needs to be respected. [[Applause.]] We also ask for applause, Senator Casini, but we ask for the Italians, who are not bending and are trying to get back up on their own, even if they have been waiting for months from the INPS for the provision of a pension, a subsidy and an integration fund that have not yet arrived. That is the reality, President Casini. Then we have to ask ourselves some questions: how do you want to spend money? You placed the speech on money, saying "the money will come, Europe will send it to us," always with the usual rhetoric. To date, however, there is no real plan that can say that you have changed the rules that sank Italy yesterday and that will start again tomorrow. You have not changed a single rule and the monster that is about to land in the Senate, the so-called simplification decree, will for the umpteenth time have missed an opportunity to reform the country. In fact, if you didn't understand it, the country stopped, the economy stopped. To those who tell that, with the work from home the country can get back on its feet and become competitive, I respond that this is a country that works in factories, in the fields, in artisan workshops [[Applause]] , in the shops of the merchants. It's a country that rolls up its sleeves. It's not a virtual country like your visions, President Conte. It is clear to everyone that as the pressure of concern for the health crisis and the pandemic decreases, the problems of the past, which are not addressed and that its majority cannot resolve, starting with the Ilva, which has been forgotten, and the problems and chaos that you have created these days in Liguria, with the highway management and with everything that follows. President Conte, this is the real country. [[Applause]] , and not what Casalino describes in his speeches. The problems of justice that we have not forgotten remain unresolved, even if they disappear from the fourth, fifth or twentieth pages of the newspapers. We have not forgotten that time is spending fruitlessly. This country, President Conte, is not China and we will not let you stifle Italians like the Chinese do with Hong Kong. Even if she's inspired by that country, we're not gonna give her that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u99	She is registered to speak Senator Mantovani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u100	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, Senators and Senators, in the press conference with Minister Azzolina on 26 June last, on the theme of the reopening of schools in September, he spoke of recovery funds and the possibility of using the resources that will also be made available for the relaunch of the Italian school and - as he recalled today - for next generation EU, for the new generations and for education. In particular, he spoke of investment opportunities in training courses for our young people, in order to combat school dispersal, to improve training, to invest in digital skills for all school staff and finally the possibility of improving career paths to allow our young people to enter the business world. These are important words that I fully share: school, digitisation and professionalisation of young people should be at the heart of the European Recovery Fund's investment. Unfortunately - as you will know - we are offering digital skills on the ground - and it is a problem since we have to face the digital transition without such knowledge - a serious delay due to the lack of a strategy of the governments that preceded it. In DESIGN 2019, the European Commission's index of digitization of the economy and society with regard to human capital, which refers to those with skills in information and communication technologies, Italy ranked 26th out of 28. Recently, DESIGN 2020 has come out and Italy's position has deteriorated. In 2020, according to the indicator of human capital, we are in 28th place, falling by two positions, that is to say to the last place. This situation is tragic not only for us, but also for the future of our children. What kind of school are we entrusting our children to? What prospects will our children have? What chance will they have to understand and interpret the world in which we are living? Many times we pause to discuss for a long time details and not really strategic issues for the country. I believe that if Italy does not increase the number of graduates in the field of scientific subjects, it can only resign itself to being one of the countries of the new technical and scientific colonization. In fact, there is a real competition that aims to remove the brains from the various countries and to have the most young people who come from other parts of the world study and retain. This brain drain, i.e. the unreturned emigration of young Italian researchers, is a damage to Italy. We have few STEM graduates and those who manage to become such are being taken away from us from other countries. Without these skills, we do not understand the importance of data. We have the raw material - digital data - but we do not benefit from it because we do not understand its value, which could be exploited for the growth of Italy. Last Sunday's article appeared on the online site of the "Corriere della Sera": "Cloud," a challenge between the USA and Europe: the battle (on the clouds) for Italy is worth 5 billion. And we will leave these 5 billion - the value of the Italian cloud - to the United States, because Italians do not have the skills not only to create their own cloud, but also to understand its importance. All this happens because in Italy there is no scientific culture. Teachers who have been able to transmit scientific culture since the early years of school are missing - and certainly not because of them. There is a lack of teaching that allows everyone to appreciate this culture, which is not second to any other type of culture. Unfortunately in Italy it is not perceived that a scientist is doing an intellectual job and produces thought and culture. If we parliamentarians do not understand in the first place that there is an absolute need for a long-term strategy to raise the country by focusing on scientific culture, starting from elementary schools so that scientific culture is truly inclusive and for everyone, we will drown the country definitively. Mathematics, which is the basis of this knowledge, is for everyone and everyone must have the right to learn it, to have the cultural bases to understand the world in which we live and, therefore, to be able to exercise their rights, in the awareness of what happens around. The recovery fund - as you, Mr President, have said - can really be an important opportunity and, in order not to waste it, it is necessary to structure its interventions through a punctual strategy. The strategy is the digitisation of the country and it is not possible to achieve it without adequate human resources. A great plan is needed for the digital school, for the literacy of children and young people, together with their parents and teachers. Digitisation of public administration is not enough; it is not enough to digitalise companies: a strategy is also needed to innovate educational content and school curricula. It is a huge task, very difficult, but we must commit ourselves to achieving it, otherwise we will lose any chance of competing with European partners in the global challenge. I am convinced that the Government will be able to seize this opportunity, which follows this tragic period for our country and for the world caused by the epidemiological emergency, which has made us understand the importance of digital, through tools such as smart working, e-commerce, distance teaching and video calls with distant people. It is necessary to commit all the efforts and energies available to develop this strategy and to enable all citizens to master these competences and dominate digitisation. In conclusion, let us ensure that the new humanism, often mentioned by you, President, really puts at the centre of your thinking the current inclinations of modern man, which include, now more than ever, scientific knowledge and digital competence. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u102	Mr President, since the beginning of this dramatic crisis, we, as the Brothers of Italy, have hoped that there will be a convergence between majority and opposition on the positions to be taken in the European Union, in order to make our country stronger, more aware, more cohesive and therefore determined. Unfortunately this has not happened and certainly not because of the responsibility of the opposition, because it is the majority and the Government that must create the conditions for the opposition to contribute in the decisive passages; certainly among these there are those in which the government is given instructions on how to behave in Community fora. This has not been the case in previous debates near the European Councils: we have listened to intentions, but not proposals. Nor did it occur in the elaboration of the three measures concerning the social, health and economic reaction to the dramatic coronavirus crisis. Of these three measures, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the last one is emblematic: a decree-law which, as such, should be uniform, immediately applicable and is, on the other hand, a measure of a thousand pages, which presupposes more than one hundred implementing decrees. It is therefore an ideological manifesto, but not an urgent, timely and concrete measure. Unfortunately this has also happened with the previous decrees-laws, of which about 80% of the implementing decrees are still missing. Of the resources allocated (80 billion in debt), I think it has reached its destination - according to some analyses - no more than 20-25 percent. The only measure we agreed on was the budgetary deviation: we allowed you to move away from the budget for this significant amount (EUR 80 billion), but it did not reach our citizens and our businesses. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I recall a television conference in which you announced the immediate availability of 400 billion for businesses. Of those 400 billion in debt, which are debt only, businesses are likely to have 51 billion in debt. This is why our country is unfortunately lagging behind other European countries in reacting to the crisis. And this is so much the case that the estimates of the European Commission and those of all other international bodies are getting worse from day to day as far as our country is concerned. The last estimate tells us that gross domestic product will be reduced by more than 12%; and unfortunately we all know that estimates are always better than the reality that happens then. 12% less: we are the country that will pay more than anyone else the impact of the economic crisis among all the countries of the Union and among all the largest advanced countries, because we have announced and promised much, but realized little. Our citizens are not just and rightly gagged with the mask: our citizens and our businesses unfortunately still have more hands tied today than yesterday and cannot get started. It is emblematic that the measure called "simplifications," which has not yet been published in the Official Journal, because there is the "unless otherwise agreed," arrives while the Senate should examine in a few hours (so read, discuss and amend) a 1,000-page measure. The paradox is that the gap between a decree-law "simplifications" that should arrive in Parliament and the latest legislative work of the Government and Parliament of 1,000 pages represents the gap between Italy imagined and Italy real, between promises and reality. Unfortunately, in Europe we still have to listen to proposals, even legitimate and fair; you have used a certain amount here. But let me tell you that this is not your government. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, spoke about my government. This is our government and this is our Parliament. We are the expression of our country. If we were to consider ourselves to some extent with the "I" - "this is my government, this is my Parliament, this is my country" - we would have a wrong posture compared to today's need, which is really dramatic, because the European context is the one in which - perhaps only four, as you said - some countries stand out. It is well known that, among the 23 others, there are all the Mediterranean countries, but also the sovereignist bloc of Visegrád. Among our main allies in Europe is Poland, which leads the Visegrád bloc and which is led by a sovereignist party to us allies (recently consecrated by the presidential elections). Italy's opponents are others: the Netherlands and other so-called frugal countries, those that were once considered liberal countries or, in any case, such as to be condemned by a certain ideological culture of the Italian left. Well, in this coalition, however, we have an urgent need compared to that of others: the times. And unfortunately, the times are extremely bad for us, because the only real measures taken in recent months are those put in place, not by the European Commission, not by the European Council, but by the European Central Bank, under the footprint or the matrix of the former Governor. This is the only institution that has really put in place effective tools; the others are announcements and promises, however with a thousand conditionings. But, if the other countries can wait, we cannot wait, because the dramatic economic and business situation in Italy, the dramatic employment and social situation require us to put national resources in place immediately, to make them reach our citizens and our businesses and to force Europe to anticipate and not postpone - as it would like to do with a obstructive and dilatory tactic - what it can put in place. That is why - and I conclude - it seems inappropriate to talk about presenting the Italian reform programme after the summer break, first of all because Parliament has decided not to have any summer break. In this country, with the current drama, with Italian citizens who do not really know how to reach the end of the month, well aware that the provisions on the integration fund have not been renewed - for most companies the integration fund has expired and we do not know in these hours if, how and for which sectors it will be extended - there are no certainties and this is the problem that the companies unfortunately sometimes have to face. Well, talking about a summer break is a macroscopic error. The country cannot stop, the government and Parliament cannot stop even for the summer break. After the summer break, if Europe does not really decide with the next Council of Ministers, we will have to face a dramatic social, economic and business situation whose responsibility will not be for its Government, its or your Parliament, but for our Government, our Parliament, our Italy. For this reason, we, as the last call, tell you to work together, not to cling to your power solutions. The risk is that, after so many announcements about the money that was and is not there, about the money that will come and will not come, the country will ask us to account to all of us, that is to say to the Italian political class and to the ruling class, the mistakes and the strategic shortsightedness that you have imposed on Parliament and, therefore, also the opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u103	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u104	Mr Conte, I think that the relationship between you and this Parliament needs a coupon, and I say this with all due respect as President of the Council of my Government. But we must get out of the cliché for which you come to Parliament, use words that can be shared, even if quite rhetorical - for example, nothing will be the same as before, or we all win or lose, and today we have come to the autocitation of what you said in this House on 17 June - and, after you have finished your speech, there is a fairly ideological debate; a debate in which my colleague Casini draws attention to the serious issues that we have to face, namely the fact that in all probability those of the ESM will be the only resources available from here in the coming months, and another part of his majority seems not to understand a principle of reality that can bring serious repercussions in the country. I say this because in this I understand the fatigue of her work, and it is the effort that leads her, in the same twenty-four hours, to do a public interview in which, to the journalist who says that, if the State took over with Cash deposits and loans a part of Atlantia would become a Benetton partner, she answers: "At the very least, would we find ourselves with Benetton's associates, does it seem normal to you?" And to the journalist who insists: "Does it bother you that the State becomes a Benetton's partner?" she replies, saying that she would find it paradoxical. And twenty-four hours later, this is exactly what happens, but not because she is inconsistent: simply because she keeps holding together a majority of which one part asks for the ESM and the other demonizes the ESM. There is one fundamental point: in today's debate we should answer questions on time. Is it true - as the Bank of Italy tells us - that access to those 36 billion, compared to access with ordinary debt, saves not to you or to me, but to our country, 500 million euros per year for ten years? If that is not true, perhaps it is better to go to the Bank of Italy to intercom, and you are more authoritative than I am. If that's true, we would have solved the problem of medical residents that this year, too, we do not fully finance in terms of specialization grants, maintaining an unbearable training funnel, when we could do so with the sole saving of interest. Is it true or not, as President Casini told us and as the Presidents of the PD Groups of both branches of Parliament have reminded us so many times, both Marcucci and Delrio, that the ESM is an extraordinary opportunity because it is free of constraints (or are very loose), it is no longer the state-saving fund and has limited access to health investments? Either we do not need investment in health care or there is no credible response to this denial and there is no credible response to the waiting attitude either, Mr President. I see what it means every day: in pre-Covid period, first launch, then withdraw and finally take time on the plastic tax (on the sugar tax we did the same); in post-Covid period you opened a public discussion on the reduction of VAT immediately stopped by the majority forces. Now, on the subject of access to European resources, we cannot afford to use summer and autumn to decide: you know as much as I do that the recovery fund will be available in unsustainable times for the needs of the country's businesses and families. In this respect, together with President Bonino, first signatory, we have tabled a very simple motion for a resolution, which proposes not to give up those resources: we expect those who said yes to the ESM to look at that approach publicly at least with favor; if that is not the case and if there were no answers to the questions I asked, we should think that, perhaps yes, with this Government you have protected us from Salvini's summer delusions but not from the whims of Di Maio and Casalino; and I do not know what is worse than the two. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u105	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the next European Council is a historic event: the recovery fund dossier is certainly one of the most important that the history of the Union remembers. Among the topics on the table there will be the way in which the commitments on investments and reforms of the States that will use the recovery fund will be evaluated: this is a decisive argument in order to make the countries rigoristi, so-called frugali, accept the plan of loans and grants that, in their view, would facilitate too much the countries overlooking the Mediterranean. As you rightly mentioned, President Conte, we will therefore talk about the governance of the recovery fund, a sensitive topic for our country, which will get the most European contribution if we are able to make precise and punctual commitments on reforms and investments to be carried out in a short time. It is therefore essential in this context that the final decisions on the allocation of resources remain with the Commission and that they are not delegated to the Council, in which the interference of the frugal countries would undoubtedly be stronger and therefore their capacity to affect the future of our country. We cannot allow a few states to block our recovery plan, taking for granted - I say this incidentally, Mr President - that this plan will be there. I say this frankly in this House: I doubt that we will soon be able to present a plan that is up to the situation. The recovery and resilience plan you mentioned must be very specific and detailed, but we do not see the necessary commitment from the Government. I say this because unfortunately it is increasingly evident that the country is lacking a clear and sure guide, that gives confidence to the Italians. Therefore, Mr President, I am sorry, but I do find it hard to believe that, after the summer, the plan to be presented in Brussels will be able to express a vision of the future and a convincing idea of the country, receiving the confidence of Europe. [[Applause.]] Mr President, you have been filling your mouth with reforms in this House and on other occasions, but all you have left is fine words. This government is slow about everything: too many mistakes have been made and too many answers have not been given, the expectations missed and the contradictions within the majority; so it is only drawn to live, we have all understood it, and we do not go anywhere. The situation is falling, but you seem to be living in another world. In May there were more paid pensions than paid payrolls: you can't live on subsidies alone, Italy is a Republic based on work [[Applause]] and not on citizenship income or subsidies, President. We want a more supportive and stronger Europe, yes, but at the same time the Government has a duty to work in the interests of Italians and in particular of future generations - not by chance we are talking about next generation EU - who must not be forced to pay the price of your mistakes, your ideology and incompetence. Let us be honest: it is true that, over the years, we have not exactly been a virtuous example of using the structural funds, but it is also true, President, that this Government has demonstrated all its inability to deal with the enormous problems that the country is experiencing. It is therefore understandable that many countries of the Union demand our due commitment. Precisely in these days the data have been disclosed, which certify the absolute occupational uncertainty that afflicts the Italians and that has caused a collapse of the births and an increase of the emigration abroad. Only in 2019 the Italians who went out to work increased by more than 8 percent. Mr President, these are numbers that hurt, that should hurt everyone in this House and that tell of the cry of pain of a country that is blocked, firm, that does not offer opportunities to those who have studied for a lifetime and to those who have prepared themselves for the world of work, except then discover the harsh reality of the lack of prospects. Another point is the time factor: when will the resources we have been talking about for months come? We are aware, for goodness sake, of the fact that we are struggling with a complex process, but it is precisely for this reason that we need to speed up this path. Forza Italia says no to endless negotiations! The time factor is crucial, Europe must run and must demonstrate that it can respond quickly to emergencies, including by changing pletoral rituals and overcome by time. The crisis is biting now, and in a few months for many workers it will be too late, President. In this regard, I would like to ask you at what point is the request for the Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (Sure) plan? He didn't tell us about it: was it accepted? Are the money available? Soon the resources of the Integration Fund will end and businesses need certainties. Meanwhile, the government sends all taxes back to next year. We have been saying this for months now: we need a fiscal white year. The Italians have not worked in these months and obviously cannot pay taxes: it seems to me a concept simple enough to understand. Then we really need to reduce the tax burden in a structural way: if not now, when? You don't need bonuses, your little ones won't solve the problems of the Italians. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to ask one last question and please listen to me because I am very sensitive about this. In the plan to be presented in Brussels you will have to include a specific chapter dedicated to the South. As a Southern man, do it to answer all of us southerners. [[Applause]] We use the recovery fund to complete the European corridor from Palermo to Berlin. The construction of great strategic works, such as the bridge over the Strait, is started. In this House, a few weeks ago, Minister Gualtieri told me that the government is still doing an analysis of the cost-benefit ratio of the bridge. We're basically still at "dear friend, I'll write to you." It is a contradiction, if one thinks that the bridge would create employment and transform Sicily into a tourist and logistical hub for Italy and Europe. It is an even more absurd paradox, if you think that to distribute bonuses and prebende, in these years, you have spent several billions of euros, and in addition the Italians are paying millions of euros of penalties, because in 2011 the then president of the Monti Council decided to put an end to the realization of the project, started by the then Berlusconi Government. [[Applause]] Tax relief, investment, concrete simplifications and a genuine reform of the justice system are needed. The Palamara case, the scandalous revelations about Silvio Berlusconi's unjust condemnation have shown, if there is still a need, that this reform is no longer postponed, that Italians need to believe in a just justice and that companies must be put in a position to work and produce wealth for the country. Mr President, listen to us, go beyond ideologies and transpose our proposals. We have the unique opportunity to modernise the country, to make it more competitive, to attract new investments: Let's do it! We, waiting for soon to be able to give back voice to the voters and that finally the majority of government reflects that of the country, until then we will collaborate, in a productive and constructive spirit. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u107	Senator Iwobi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the serious health emergency that has affected our country has highlighted the structural weaknesses that need to be considered, including in view of the European Council. The first issue we need to address is the centrality of Parliament. This place, Mr President, must once again be a real place of confrontation, because this is where the heart of democracy is beating. We are the foundation and not the crutch of the government because we represent the whole country, majority and opposition. [[Applause.]] At a stage of health emergency, it is only in Parliament that we can seek a dialogue that can put the good of the citizens at the centre and not with the frictions between the political forces represented here. The virus has simply highlighted what has been happening for a few years now, so much so that common reasoning leads us to think of voting for a government and not for Parliament. We do not give up, Mr President. The citizens voted for Parliament to be represented by people who have different ideas, but who have a common objective, that is, the good of the Italian people. [[Applause.]] We have also seen this very well in relation to relations with the European Union: the democratic deficit affecting the Community institutions must be a stimulus and not a blockade in order to involve Parliament more closely in decisions defining Italy's position at international level. A second aspect that I think is important to deal with is the relationship with the territory. It is evident that each Region has been hit by coronavirus with different intensity, and it is precisely for this reason that the logic asks us that different situations are faced with equally different measures. Not only that, the work, which is the foundation of our Republic finds in the territory an important element for its existence; for this reason it will be essential to support the creation of territorial networks that can support employment services, for which nothing has yet been done. We haven't seen anything until today. [[Applause.]] At the European Council, I would like the Government to bring in Italy that wants to work; Italy made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, from the North to the South, which demand less bureaucracy, less taxes and the possibility of more investment to create work and non-socialism. Investing in work, Mr President, creates wealth for citizens and the State. Europe is not an abstract ideal, but it is made up of peoples, territories and families, and it is from them that a solution must be built for the difficult socio-economic scenario. The third aspect - and I conclude - concerns migration policy. A clear position must emerge from the European Council of Member States on the management of migratory flows, which are increasing significantly over the last few days. Europe cannot - as has happened too often in the past - discharge responsibility and problems over the countries facing the Mediterranean, so Italy. The presence of several positive migrants at Covid-19 is an addict for the risk of a terrible spread of the contagion. The increase in landings is primarily linked to the lack of strategic management of this criticality with African countries. I am convinced, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that a European policy is needed to promote regular immigration, which is a wealth for each host country, and to combat illegal immigration definitively, which is a barrier to insecurity and illegality and to respect human dignity. Italy, also given its geographical position, can play a fundamental role on this point. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is what I expect from Italy that you will represent at the European Council; I also expect that from the other Member States we will have an understanding of countries like ours, which have always given Europe more than they receive. I shall conclude by asking you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to take responsibility before Parliament and then before the Italian people for the decisions to be taken at the next European Council. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u109	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the arrival of the Covid-19 in our country has caused the loss of so many lives in a short period of time. We still have in our eyes the shocking images of military trucks that took away the victims and in our ears the stories of relatives who had not even been able to assist and comfort their loved ones in the last days and in the last of their lives. The only way to stem this terrible pandemic was to take drastic and painful measures to temporarily close work and social distance, which stopped the contagion, avoided hundreds of thousands of deaths, but which had important economic consequences. To this great crisis is paid a great, determined and quick reaction of the Government and the majority that supports it, approving and converting to law in a short time in Parliament measures such as the decree-law care Italy, liquidity and relaunch, that have engaged funds for 75 billion euros in support of the health sector, of the enterprises and of the citizens, with measures absolutely extraordinary and never adopted before. The action of this Government and of this majority has also made itself felt decisively and innovatively in the Union, convincing the other European countries that it was essential to intervene immediately to prevent a symmetrical health crisis, that was to say that it had concerned all the European countries, could have a much more asymmetrical economic and social consequences in some countries and lighter in others, which could undermine the efforts of convergence of the European Union and possibly cause irreversible distortions on the single market and on the lives of citizens and on the Union. The proposal to change radically and in a revolutionary way the way to approach a crisis of exogenous origin such as the one that struck us and of such devastating scale originated precisely from Italy, from this Government, which immediately joined eight European countries. Within a few weeks, what seemed impossible until March, what the so-called frugal countries did not even want to hear, has become possible and at hand: the creation of a common European debt instrument of sufficient size and long-term that could give the Member States the resources necessary to overcome the health and economic crisis and lay the foundations for a European revival and for a solution (we hope finally) to the inequalities existing in the European Union. All this was born thanks to your courage, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and that of your Government and the majority supporting it, of which the 5 Star Movement is the largest political force. We at Movimento 5 Stars had set ourselves precisely these goals over the last ten years, when everyone said they were utopian goals; we demonstrated that this was not the case and that it could be achieved. The diplomatic action of this Government has led to the European Commission's arcinota proposal for a recovery plan based on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, which has a proposed amount of €1,100 billion, and on the next generation EU, which provides for a fund of €750 billion, of which 500 are distributed in the form of grants and 250 in the form of loans. In this context, Italy would receive over 170 billion, of which just under half would be lost. We have reached this point and now we must take the last step that is necessary: these proposals from the European Commission must become reality. We must overcome the last resistance of European countries, those European countries that have no interest in making Italy become a great country with a lively economy, an economy that pulls and produces wealth and well-being for its citizens. At this moment cohesion would be needed and all political forces would square around the Italian proposals. Instead, we have in this Parliament the so-called sovereignists, Salvini and Meloni, friends, for example, of the Dutch sovereignists - who are called the Freedom Party - and of that Dutch sovereignist politician Wilders who, a few days ago, displayed a sign on which it was written: Not a penny to Italy. They're friends of these people here! [[Applause. Comments]] They're your friends, not mine.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u111	Excuse me, Senator Marco Pellegrini, these people here are senators of the Republic. I'd ask you to moderate your language.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u112	[[Applause]] PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I told you something. It's on the front pages of all the newspapers, then if you don't want to hear it no problem. The so-called Italian sovereignists are friends of the enemies of the Italians: this is what I think and what the political force to which I belong thinks. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you and your Government have done well so far and have always been convinced by the 5 Star Movement. All this was not easy and it was not at all obvious; to convince us it is enough to look at a recent precedent also originated from an exogenous factor, namely the crisis of sub-prime loans from the United States. In 2008 there was a very strong crisis on Italy, from which we have still not been able to recover after more than eleven years. Well, the Berlusconi government then told us that there was no crisis and that the pizzerias and restaurants were full. Tremonti told us that the Italian banks were very solid (and then it was seen) and in a few months - I want to remember - the spread splashed at 575 basis points and they, that government, attended without moving a single finger to the devastating crisis that hit the whole country and hit in a terrible way, for example, the construction sector! [[Applause]] The Berlusconi Government did nothing in the midst of a perfect storm, at a time when banks did not lend to private individuals or businesses. Hundreds of thousands of companies failed, hundreds of thousands of jobs were lost; the value of homes, i.e. the savings of Italians, almost halved. Then, to make sure to give a final blow to Italy made two increases in VAT, between July and August of 2011: they brought it first from 20 to 21 percent and then from 21 to 22 percent. Finally, just to make sure that they had given the final kick, they increased the IMU by more than 80% with a measure approved in December 2011 that cost the pockets of the Italians 24 billion euros as higher taxes. None of them - and I have concluded - thought to give liquidity to the enterprises, to make a moratorium on the mortgages, to give money to lose money, to extend the Cassa Integrazione, to prevent the dismissals, things that this Government has done! [[Applause]] Fortunately for Italy there is now you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is this majority and all our energies will be directed to ensure that the Italians have a better life and a better future. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u113	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Ministers and members of the Government, with the presentation of the recovery plan focused on the new next generation EU instrument, the ban on the use of common debt securities falls in the Union: good news for the European construction project, bad news for the anti-European sovereign forces. The final word is now up to the next European Council to make it quick, Mr President, to overcome the tensions of the so-called northern frugal countries, starting from Austria and Holland and thus to overcome a health crisis which has become an unprecedented economic and social crisis, as you recalled, but with the courage not to look back and back but towards a common European horizon. The own resources decision will allow the Commission to borrow EUR 750 billion on the market, so that Member States will not have to pay significant additional contributions to the multi-annual budget 2021-2027; own resources up to 2% of GDP that could include plastic tax, but also web tax against web giants - and here clearly we will have the opposition of Holland - but above all the scheme of the trading of polluting emissions, with related customs law at the borders. A European levy, therefore, which could pave the way for a desirable tax union between Member States towards overcoming the current and no longer tolerable internal tax dumping in the common market, distorting internal competition. A taboo, that of the subsequent and possible reform of the Treaties, which the state of emergency could therefore bring down, even trusting in the strength of the new German Presidency of the European Semester, with Chancellor Merkel who will certainly not miss the historic opportunity to become the champion of a Europe - what we want - stronger and more competitive at world level, but also fairer, sustainable and even safer. Common debt, therefore, with the recovery plan, the payment of which will be guaranteed by the European budget through the European Commission. A figure which, as you mentioned, President Conte, has no precedent in the history of the European Union, plus the funds already defined and available in the Eurogroup: the Sure Fund, the EIB Fund, but also the potential of the ESM, which seems to be indispensable if you decide to extend the state of emergency of health. In fact, €36 billion at a rate close to zero and without conditionality seems indispensable to us to implement the hospital network, but above all to strengthen the territorial health system, for a crisis that has hit symmetrically, it was said, but with asymmetrical effects between States, also for the differential development of departure. Italy would be the first country for allocated resources (81 billion euros lost, 91 in loans). Of course, Mr President, this is also the time to reflect on a final reform of the Stability Pact (in addition to mere suspension), but also on the aid regime and Member States' compliance with all internal rules, including respect for fundamental rights - and I am thinking of Orban's Hungary - conditionality for all indispensable for a common European project. The goal of the recovery plan is to overcome the crisis generated by the pandemic, facing the double challenge of the digital and ecological transition launched with the green new deal and ensuring, at the same time, the social equity of the maneuver, with particular attention to young people, to whom we are leaving the legacy of the debt. However, it seems entirely appropriate that the subsidies should be granted, subject to the submission of a coherent national recovery and resilience plan, to be presented, as you said, after the summer and subject to scrutiny of the European Semester procedure. Attention, Mr Conte, because concentrating control only on the Council means certifying mistrust among the Member States, so our hope is that all the decision-making institutions will be involved. Our task is therefore to plan the national growth and to face the structural nodes of the Country with commitments regarding also the traditional recommendations that for Italy mean tax reform, reduction of the times of justice, greater efficiency of the public administration, investments on the quality of education; we started with the decree relaunch, we are working with the decree simplifications. An economic and employment recovery based also on the plan of public works waiting to be carried out quickly, as we asked in the shock plan. President Conte, we are with you in this test of strength with the opposition of the countries of rigor, not only opposed to the recovery fund, but to what intervention with the common budget involves, that is, the start of the construction of a federal Europe. Aid for our country, which is worth 30% of gross domestic product, or EUR 500 billion. That is why Europe agrees with Italy. Europe will have to make the funds available, but Italy has to prepare to use them for economic recovery and reforms. Jobs, we know, Mr President, are not maintained and are not created by decree. The importance of the next generation EU proposal is therefore not in the combination, although important, of loans with grants, but in the collective assumption of responsibility for the financing of the recovery. A first step towards a budgetary union, an important step towards completing the plan for a genuine Europe of peoples. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u115	Senator Alfieri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u116	Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council has asked for a full delegation to go as far as possible, since it is not a trivial Council, it is not one of those ordinary Councils, so much so that it took an extraordinary Council to be able to complete a path that starts from afar. It wasn't obvious. We are faced with one of those phase changes in Europe that cannot be implied. So even the mandate you are asking for, President of the Council, is not an ordinary mandate. I do not want to uncomfortable the words of the challenging past, but when Robert Schuman, one of the most enlightened Christian Democrats in May 1950, said that we needed creative efforts comparable to the threats that came from the East, then represented by the danger of the Soviet Union, it was because the world was changing: a new international order was being built and we would stand only if we had put together the democracies that came out of the war, inventing something original as a supranational organization that put coal and steel together for which they had fought in the hundred years before the same European countries. Today we have new challenges, not a war, not a war conflict, but a pandemic, the fight against climate change, the exit from an economic crisis, the change of an international order. In fact, the new players, indeed the same actors of the past today with different and unilateral choices, on the one hand China and on the other the United States, hold up the construction of a new international order when Europe decides not to play the game. The role of Italy to relaunch the dream of the founding Fathers is therefore fundamental, therefore extraordinary efforts are needed today considering the great challenges we face, comparable to those we have before us. The work carried out by the Italian Government in the last year is not trivial, because compared to the previous Government we had to recover to the obvious isolation in which the country was. You will remember that, Mr President, when you went to Strasbourg with the previous government, the climate of 'hostility', sometimes even excessive and wrong. But that climate of hostility in a year has been profoundly changed with an important job, and I say that by making known to the Movimento 5 Stars of the advanced work that he has done in the last year. I remember - we considered it a mistake: I mean without hypocrisies - the journey of Minister Di Maio, today to foreign countries but in the past Minister of Labour, when he took a walk with the leader of the yellow vests, mistaken in my opinion. We must say that because in a report based on frankness things must be said. At the same time, however, I must say that the work we have done together this year on the European front was decisive precisely because it was done by you, President Conte, together with Minister Di Maio, Minister Amendola and the whole of your Government. We started from a situation of isolation with France that at some point didn't talk to us almost anymore. We had to reconstruct the relationships, which are divided with an important summit - the Italian-French one - with which, thanks to the creation of the new international missions, with a collaboration between the founding countries we have created a positive climate that has allowed us to build the "letter of the nine," an initiative precisely Italian-French and Spanish, and that was a fundamental step that rebuilt the axis with which we have built all the most important negotiations in Europe, which allowed us to "hold back" compared to a financial framework that is anything but obvious and which, with the appointment on the other side of Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri, has allowed us to build, step by step, with the struggle of politics, a project that has not equaled the past because next generation EU and in particular the recovery fund are the embryo, in fact, of the Eurobonds for which we have fought for for years. [[Applause]] We did it together in Europe. I say this because the recovery fund has three characteristics: the first is to be the embryo of a common financial initiative. It's not banal. It is something similar to what happened in the past - and it is no coincidence that I started from this - when coal and steel were put together: we decide to put together a piece of our debt. It wasn't obvious and it's not trivial. The second fundamental aspect is that it is not only loans, loans, but also grants, subsidies. It's fundamental to us, to a heavily indebted country. We, unlike the countries with which we have built the alliance, remember that the rating of our main companies is equal to "BBBB" while for the other countries it is equal to "AAA" or "AA". It's a big difference. Having the opportunity to bring home a tool that allows us to have grants on a non-refundable basis allows us not to charge them on our debt. This is a fundamental step and I add it to another: compared to a crisis like this, symmetrical but that can have asymmetrical consequences, the fact that resources can go to those who need more is a further Italian success. You have done well, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to also demand the diplomatic action you have taken these days. We've seen it, and we'll give it to him. But we have also seen something else and it is useless that from the other benches they get nervous when the colleagues of the 5 Stars remind him because we have present the image in which she went to meet the Dutch Premier in one of the most delicate passages of the negotiation of these days in order to reach completion regarding a success that is registered to all Italy (not to the Movimento 5 Stars, not to the Democratic Party, not to Italy Viva, not to Leu but to the whole country); well, at the moment when she deeped the maximum effort, the leader of the Party for Dutch freedom, not any, one of the main allies of the League together with which the Legists formed a group - Identity and democracy - raised a sign with writing: "Geen cent naar Italie! Not a penny to Italy! See that being friends with these gentlemen - and I stress this - is not a problem because they are opponents of the Movimento 5 Stars or the Democratic Party, but because they are opponents of Italy. That's the point. [[Applause]] That is why we must draw ourselves around the President-in-Office of the Council in a battle like this - right or wrong, our country - in such a decisive and important challenge. We have seen it in the past, even when important agreements were being built, like Valletta, rather than in the most decisive steps for a new way of regulating the management of migratory flows: we have seen Salvini behind the barbed wires together with Orbán, who is the gentleman who, when we ask for relocation on a voluntary basis, answers: never, never, never an immigrant landed on our coasts. [[Applause]] The principle of solidarity is lacking, Europe is failing. This is the fundamental point and this is where we play the future of Europe, if we reaffirm that principle of solidarity. The struggle of this government's policy has led, for example on the European mission Irini, after it had been actually dismantled previously, not only to decide to return to the central Mediterranean, but also to ensure that the Greeks, who put a ship, from now on will not land migrants in Italy but, by the principle of burden sharing, burden sharing, will bring them to Greece. This is a fundamental step, because it is the embryo of that relocation that we have worked with effort. Slogans in Europe are not enough. [[Applause]] We have to work concretely. [[Applause]] I close the argument to say that today we come to build an overall package: Sure, EIB, the MES pandemic crisis support line, the recovery fund. When we have the overall picture, we will know how much resources we can get and what tools to use. We want Parliament to be able to pronounce on this when we have the overall picture. But the most important thing - I close on this - is to have clear ideas on how we will use this money: we need a fundamental strategic plan. This must be an opportunity to rethink our development model in the light of what happened with Covid-19. This is our most important challenge. [[Applause]] That is why it is good that we start to think about the simplification decree, because this money will have to be spent well and quickly and we are called to express ourselves on this. I'd like to end this. The strong signal that you, Mr President, want us to receive it today, to go to Europe as protagonists and also to be able to shorten the gap between public opinion and Europe. Too often we have described Europe as a stepmother; we have said: "Europe asks for it," often in order to cover the inability of our governments, of all colors, to make those reforms that were necessary for our country. Today we have an extraordinary opportunity: with all the resources coming from Europe we cannot fail. We cannot make a mistake for our companies, which are in clear difficulty, for the most fragile and for those families who - as you mentioned in your speech, President-in-Office - have paid a very high price in terms of human lives. Today we have a very important bet, which is to restore credibility to Europe and to our political action. Credibility and trust in Europe and the world are worth more than a thousand surveys. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u117	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u118	Mr President, I would like to start with a remark made by President Conte, who does not seem irrelevant to me. You, Mr President, said that the crisis caused by the pandemic is a symmetrical crisis, to which we must respond, even if necessary, with asymmetrical solutions. This means that the pandemic is a symmetrical crisis, which has involved all European countries, but probably the effects and solutions have a typically asymmetric characteristic. We live in a climate of total uncertainty; we have controlled the pandemic in Italy, in our country, thanks to the extraordinary discipline of the Italian people. But the pandemic is not over in the world; let's see what's going on in the United States, let's see what's going on in Latin America, we don't know exactly what's going on in Africa and certainly not good things happen in some Asian states. So there is the possibility and probability of a return of the pandemic crisis, perhaps in autumn, maybe next year. We live in a climate of total uncertainty, which forces me to ask myself and ask her some questions and find some answers. To ask these questions, I would like to put some numbers in place that are in the field. The only real intervention with which we compare is the intervention of the ECB: 1,350 billion. The PEP (Purchase emergency program) will last until the middle of next year. In the meantime, Europe has imagined, with the temporary framework, to establish, for example, the suspension of the Stability Pact, to grant flexibility with regard to State aid and the use of cohesion resources (a subject that is quite complicated for us Italians, because we have never used them properly). This flexibility means essentially that there is no need for Italian co-financing in relation to the resources that Europe makes available and that we spend badly, in a fragmentation of the decisions that they preside over. Meanwhile, Europe says it has provided 540 billion: the 100 billion Sure, the 200 billion mobilization (let's call it) of the European Investment Bank and the famous, fanciful 240 billion ESM. I say this because there is a precedent to the intervention of the European Central Bank; I refer to the famous precedent of 26 July 2012. President Draghi then said that, as part of his mandate, the ECB was ready to safeguard the euro by any means (the famous " whatever it takes") and that this would be enough. But Dragons at that time, when he spoke these words at the London conference, had at his disposal a formidable instrument of financial deterrent, which was the MTOs, which perhaps some of you do not know, but which, said in English, want to mean the outright monetary transactions and which, said in Italian, are the final monetary transactions. They are the financial instrument that would allow the ECB, and which could already enable it then, to intervene in the purchase of government bonds on the primary market (today the European Central Bank intervenes in the purchase of government bonds on the secondary market). That formidable financial deterrent instrument was not used and it was not necessary to use it; The word of Dragons was sufficient in that place and knowledge of that instrument was sufficient. But there is one problem: the use or possible use of that instrument presupposes membership of the ESM. That is why I have previously referred to the crisis and to the solution of the asymmetrical problem: that instrument can be used where there is an asymmetrical crisis and the accession to the ESM allows the use of this extraordinary financial instrument. I have not heard of this subject, and I wondered, Mr President, beyond the ideological and demagogic debate, whether I have little or no interest in it, whether you have raised the question of what the letter of 7 May by Commissioners Gentiloni Silveri and Dombrovskis meant to the President of the Eurogroup Centeno. The latter is no longer president today, because with a stroke of hand it was replaced by those who did not want us (closed parenthesis). That letter said: "The only requirement for access to the credit line will be for euro area Member States requiring support to commit to use this credit line only for internal support of direct and indirect healthcare." Then the letter continues with a series of sterilizations and suspensions of all the clauses provided for in Regulation No 472 - I no longer see Professor Monti in the Chamber - that was approved in 2013 and that was following the Treaty of Establishment of the ESM of 2012. Then the question is: if the ECB's financial instrument, as formidable as it could be as I have just said, is still due to accession to the ESM, does the possible accession to the ESM provide, as far as you are concerned, for verification of the possibilities of access on the basis of the sterilizations and suspensions that have been written in the letter or not? Or at least, since I have not heard of it, is it a problem that you have posed, beyond - I repeat - the demagogic or ideological debate, that nothing or little interests us? That was the first question. Europe has a distrustful attitude towards us; it has always had it for two reasons: the first is that we have never been very good at using European funds, with the excuse that there should be national co-financing. But, as I said before, European funds have been poorly used and badly used. The second problem is an old and ancient controversy with regard to our country. We are told: you Italians have the highest public debt in Europe, but you also have very high private savings (today it has reached almost 1,100 billion); but you have accumulated this private savings thanks to the evasion - and Europeans often catch us on this - of 150 billion per year. If we multiply 150 billion by ten years ago, 1,500 billion. And that's one of the accusations they make. Are we able to respond to this criticism? Are we able to stand up to the comparison when the famous frugal countries ask that there is no qualified majority to decide how to do the monitoring on how the possible money of the recovery fund will be spent? Are you able to hold the debate on the subject, on which they would like to bring us, of a unanimous decision, which would be the total block of any possibility of access to the recovery fund? I say these things because we are still aware that there has been a change of paradigm in European policy. The fact that we are no longer talking about austerity and that we are talking about contributions that are even lost means that something has changed. President Michel, in his preparatory document for your meeting in the next few days, says: we will borrow the 750 billion as a recovery fund, then we will raise the problem of how to repay them. I'm gonna finish. I have a bad impression: Germany, which is the first manufacturing country in Europe (we are the second, or at least we were, but I imagine and hope that we will remain the second), has solved the problems of restarting the traditional German industrial machine and will use European funds only for the address and indications that are given on the recovery fund, that is, a greener and more digital Europe. We are interested in this, but to a certain extent, because technological innovation is not only green and is not only digital. Are we able to reiterate that our industrial machine is the one that has allowed our country to be one of the most important of the European front and that it guaranteed Italian citizens the profitability that it has guaranteed in recent years? These are the questions, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. I think I've said almost everything. I'd like to ask you more questions, but time is tyrant, so I'll finish at this point. I hope that in the reply it will give us some further indication. You have omitted, as I said, some arguments, but I think it is worthwhile that in your reply, which you will probably do here, I can give you some further information. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u119	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u120	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, first of all I would like to congratulate someone who today will certainly have to celebrate and beat their hands, because at this moment the title of Atlantia on the Stock Exchange earns 25% of its value, so the Benettons are certainly happy. [[Applause.]] Someone made the deal today, then we will be curious to see who sold and bought the shares these days, because with a statement and a Council of Ministers they turn billions of euros, this is the real economy. [[Applause.]] So I don't know if the state makes any money, but surely today someone has earned it: this is little, but sure. We come to Europe. This is the third time we have heard of a thousand thousand billion coming: well, let us put the tape back on the promises we have heard in this House in recent weeks and then let us get to our doubts about the promises that come from Brussels. On the integration fund, chatter: a small entrepreneur from Milan has just written to me with 32 employees - so not a big company - half of which since March has not yet seen a euro. If they can feed their children, it's because this entrepreneur anticipated the integration fund, on which you made chatter, chat and chat, while the entrepreneurs put the money in it. On the money promised by the banks, we remember the 400 billion bazooka: so far, the 400 billion is 53, not data, but asked by the companies; and, if out of 5 million entrepreneurs, those who have applied are 823,000, obviously the instrument does not work. Even on the money promised by the banks, then, chatter. On the postponement of taxes, chatter: a request of Confcommercio has now come out that is the minimum indispensable, because it asks to postpone the fiscal deadlines of 20 July at least to September; all the other European countries have already postponed to September the fiscal deadlines of the summer. At least on this, Mr Present of the Council, you copy your colleagues from other European countries: I do not tell you to do better, at least to copy. [[Applause.]] I thank Senator 5 Stars who intervened before me raising the theme of the school: I subscribe to her speech. Also on the school, big talk: today, however, Minister Azzolina has reiterated - I don't know if there is or does - that a million students since September will not find a place in the classroom and will have to go to lecture in cinemas, museums or theaters. It is an insult to Italian students, teachers and families. [[Applause.]] Can we reopen the schools by sending the kids to school? On immigration, the colleague of the Democratic Party has surpassed himself, doing an incredible miracle: according to today's data - since you are so good at dealing with Europe, who loves this Government and Italy, and there are Malta's agreement, the redistributions, Greece, etc. - last year's landings were 3.186, while today, thanks to the fact that you are people of speech and Europe loves you, they are more than triple. Nearly 10,000 people have arrived without anyone moving a finger: I have to understand if the government is incapable of or complicit in this human trafficking, because the doubt I have left is this. [[Applause.]] And the Malta agreement is worth zero, because they are here: indeed, you have even suspended the humanitarian corridors that the ugly, bad and sovereign minister Salvini had continued with the Catholic associations; so there are no more arrivals of the real refugees, but you are bringing thousands of fakes, who are putting in trouble Sicily, Sardinia, Puglia and Calabria, as well as the Forces of Order. If that is your burden in Europe, there is obviously something that does not work, dear President-in-Office of the Council. We come to what others do: we are at the third or fourth debate on Europe that will come, that may give us money; the incredible thing is that we are discussing the money that perhaps - if we are lucky - will come in a year's time. Those who were at home must understand that, if they have a problem with the mortgage, the rent, the bill, the car, the company, the employees or whatever they want, the money you are talking about will arrive, if it's okay, in spring 2021. We are in July 2020: what are the other European countries doing? Are they waiting for this money? No. Let us give concrete examples, so I would ask you to copy your colleagues. Macron, France (I am not his fan, but a concrete and objective person). The French Government, without waiting for the European money, has already allocated, to date, 8 billion euros per year for the increase of the salaries of doctors and nurses, which I would like to happen also in Italy, because it is not enough to say how heroic our doctors are, but it is also necessary to increase their salaries. [[Applause]] and France has done so, with EUR 8 billion a year. Tourism: €16 billion for companies working with tourism, in France. [[Applause]] The car industry has had 8 billion euros from the French Government and you are hooking up with the Chinese electric scooters: there is something that doesn't work. [[Applause]] I always quote France from the dangerous sovereignist Macron: EUR 8 billion lost for small businesses, EUR 3 billion lost for shopkeepers, to pay rents and bills of light, water and gas, EUR 3 billion for the self-employed, to relieve them of taxes and contributions. That's what France did with her money. Germany has cut taxes, not in newspapers like President Conte, but in fact. VAT has fallen from 19 to 16 percent. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Lega Group is telling you: if you bring, not in the newspapers or in Facebook, but in the House, a tax-cutting hypothesis, the League's votes will have them in one minute! [[Applause]] However, it is not the interviews with "the daily facts" that improve the lives of our entrepreneurs, unfortunately. That's all we need. We'd be lucky. In Germany, they postponed their tax deadlines and gave 50 billion euros for small businesses. In Germany - an absolutely forgotten issue - between the federal government and the local authority in Berlin have, at a loss, allocated EUR 1 billion for artists and cultural associations, to finance a cheque of EUR 5,000 for each artist or member of cultural association in Berlin. On the left you fill the mouth of the word "culture," but when there is something to do, do not make a accident. [[Applause]] Take an example from Berlin and Germany! [[Applause]] In conclusion, we come to the very dangerous England, which has had the insane and wretched idea of leaving the European Union. They are put so badly, in the wretched London, that they have given £10,000, lost money, to every small business, and £25,000 lost money for traders, small entrepreneurs and hoteliers. Do you know how the British, who have unfortunately left the European Union, have access to these funds? By filling out this form, downloadable on your mobile (Senator Salvini shows a smartphone). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this is a one-page form. With a page, on their mobile phone, they got up to 25,000 pounds lost, while here those waiting for an answer from the Ministries or the INPS must pray to the good God in paradise. I understand that it makes you nervous, but we do not ask you to do better than others, but to copy others. [[Applause]] Copy the English, the Germans, the French or the Swiss: copy the others! [[Applause]] I'm not saying we do better than the others, but at least copy. In Italy we have the smart working for public employees until December 31: go tell the craftsman or VAT number, who goes to work even if he has 40 fever, that there is someone who stays at home until December 31, to do the smart working. [[Applause]] A final reflection: since we are positive, proactive and constructive, we note that the Italian community has paid EUR 200 billion into the European Union's coffers in recent years. These are the numbers: EUR 200 billion has already been given and you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, come here week after week, month after month, to tell us that, compared with these EUR 200 billion already given by the Italians, if we are good, if we welcome some illegals, if we maybe cut pensions a little bit or apply a new asset, maybe they give us back a small part of these EUR 200 billion given by the Italians. You're crazy! Long live Italy, live free, beautiful, rich, happy and sovereign Italy! Good work and, above all, good luck. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u121	She is registered to speak Senator Ricciardi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are intervening in this House to reaffirm your willingness to give you, President of the Council, a strong mandate to arrive at a solution in Europe on the recovery fund and on the European multiannual budget. A solution in line with the proposal that the Government, at the decisive stimulus of the 5 Star Movement, had the merit of imposing on the European tables, to the extent that the proposal was transposed by the European Commission. This is an important and historic achievement for the whole of the European Union if we only consider the fragility of the European responses at the beginning of the Covid emergency. We are talking about measures which, for the first time, pool resources at Community level, and which are a first example of common debt to finance expenditure with positive repercussions on individual States. As far as the content is concerned, we are discussing a great deal of the difference between loans and subsidies. It is clear that we prefer grants to loans, and in this respect the recovery fund is certainly to be defended, especially where it devotes most of the resources identified to grants; but it is equally clear that it will be necessary to use these resources for digital transition, environment and technologies, themes dear to the 5 Stars. This is not the result of chance, but of the extensive network of alliances that you, Mr President, have managed to establish with your Government with many Member States of the European Union. I am referring to the stimuli towards Chancellor Merkel, the relationship with France and President Macron, the axis that the Government has been able to enhance with the Mediterranean countries. There are also risks of rigidity in some Member States, for example, so-called frugalities, but this is part of the negotiating dynamics and we are sure that the government will be able to negotiate in the best way. Having said that, Mr President, we all feel, however, the urgency and the need to deal with this historic step of the European Union. Let me therefore reiterate that what the Member States are about to take today is a decisive step towards a common future. We started from the fundamental intervention of the European Central Bank, which continues to operate with its monetary stimuli, and now is the time to bring the recovery fund, with its 750 billion, of which Italy is about to get the largest slice. As for the ESM, President, we all know that it is an instrument available; we all know that it is in European proposals, because it has existed since 2012, after it was approved in 2011 by that center-right government of which the so-called League sovereignists and the leaders of Brothers of Italy, who today have incredibly lost the memory of this not negligible precedent. [[Applause.]] The question of Italy's potential interest in activating the instrument has become stale. Only after defining the details of the recovery fund and the multiannual financial framework, which are the various objectives of the forthcoming European Council, can we assess the convenience of other instruments, which rely on debt: for example, the Sure Plan, EIB debt, and therefore also the ESM. But now it is clear: Italy does not need those 36 billion, because, while waiting for the resources of the recovery fund, our country can quietly continue to enter the market by placing its government bonds, all the more so because the ECB has strengthened its monetary stimulus plan by increasing the purchases of securities from 750 to 1,350 billion. In our view, however, we still need to oversee certain passages and ambiguities, for example, the German attitude on the following point. Who, between the Council and the Commission, must be the director of the evaluation of investment projects? We believe that it should be the Commission. In the same way, once and for all, the claims made by countries on paper - I repeat, on paper - such as the Netherlands must be rejected. The idea that the Netherlands can dictate conditions to Italy or Spain, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, cannot and must no longer have any place in the European debate. The Netherlands itself, in fact, has been repeatedly included by the Special Commission on financial crimes, evasion and tax avoidance (so-called TAX3) of the European Parliament in the list of countries so-called aggressive taxation (and I am using a euphemism). Therefore, the response to the coronavirus emergency must also provide for the overcoming of tax practices that are harmful between Member States. Commercial dumping and the presence of so-called European tax havens cause Italy an estimated loss of USD 5 to 8 billion per year and completely distort the development of foreign investment: it is enough to think that in the Netherlands these foreign investments represent 535 percent of GDP, while in the microscopic Luxembourg they reach 5,760 percent per annum and we know that they are not real productive investments. They are countries that then have the courage to morale Italy on public debt, economic policy and press for maximum rigour. Finally, Mr President, allow me a passage on public debt. At this stage of emergency, which is also an accomplice to a necessary suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact, it was essential to make an economic effort in deficit within the various economic measures approved and also to be approved. This, of course, has had a physiological impact on debt, the level of which grows significantly. Several European instruments, such as the Sure Plan, would have an impact on debt because they are loans. That is why, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we must also take the opportunity of the crisis to reflect on the implementation of an Italian self-financing plan. With the decree-law I raise we have opened the way, introducing rent bonuses, sanitizations and the super bonus to 110 percent, whose operation passes from the fast circulation of the tax credit, which is at the base of it; so we reflect on the opportunity, also thanks to the use of an ad hoc computer platform, to use these tax credits as real tools of exchange. The same can be said for government bonds: the excellent result achieved by BTP Italia and Futura shows that Italians, in the most complete guarantee of freedom of their investments, believe in our securities. Again, with an appropriate technology platform, these titles could be used as instruments of exchange. You yourself, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said that we must never be innovative like today. We have been in Europe, we have been in so many measures of the re-launching decree-law, we can still do so, leaving all together an important sign. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u123	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 (text 2), Perilli, Marcucci, Faraone, De Petris and Unterberger, No 2 (text 2), Senator Calderoli, No 3, Senator Bonino and other senators, No 4, Senators Bernini, Ciriani and Romeo, and No 5, Senator Paragone and other senators have been tabled. The lyrics are in distribution. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u124	Mr President, the Government welcomes Resolution No 1 and takes the opposite view on all the others.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u125	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u126	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u128	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Mr Conte, Europe's initial reaction to the Covid crisis has certainly not been the best. The first approach was to close the borders, block the supplies of protective equipment for the benefit of its citizens; afterward the categorical no came to the Coronabonds and the sovereigns were already sharpening their weapons. But then a miracle happened: France spokesperson for the interests of the Southern European States and sat at the table with Germany to create a solution, in Germany there was the Copernican turning point with the abandonment of the dogma of austerity and at that table came the proposal that no one had thought possible, that of a 500 billion euro recovery fund, then raised to 750 by the European Commission. Of course, the negotiations are still under way and as we know the devil is hiding in detail. So we are talking about the amount of funds, their timing, the division between loans and grants and who has to have the governance of the recovery plans. However, the Presidency and the commitment of Germany are hopeful. Chancellor Merkel, this great woman and European leader, already in the crisis of Syrian immigration in 2015 had uttered her famous words "wir shaffen das" (we do it), demonstrating great humanity and solidarity towards those in difficulty. Now, in the same spirit, he is pursuing negotiations with the Member States to repair the divide between North and South Europe. There is a compromise to be found and for this reason we must have the ability to imagine ourselves also in the shoes of the other political leaders who must justify their work to their citizens, especially when they have inside the right characters like Wilders, great friend of the Italian sovereignists, who greeting our President of the council has waved the famous cartel. It is clear that North European leaders want guarantees that the huge resources are not being used for past debts or welfare measures, but to make the necessary reforms. It is right that those who share a debt should also be called to know how those resources will be spent: this is also the interest of Italy, who must know how other countries will use resources. Certainly they will not have to go to feed aggressive and unfair tax practices, as Europe has repeatedly reproached the Netherlands, or allow the debasement of the principles of the rule of law as happens in the countries of Visegrád. Moreover, leaving even greater debt to future generations is morally permissible only if on the other side of the balance there will be interventions able to achieve the objectives indicated by President Von der Leyen. Our aim must be to bring home an agreement that does not unleash the solidarity system approved by the Commission. In order to succeed we need an Italy that at all levels shows its responsible face and a Premier who can count on a stable Government. It takes a step backwards of the individual parties that make up the majority to make one forward with respect to the common objective and it needs a constructive opposition that does not have as its sole purpose to weaken the Government, because with this it weakens the whole of Italy. In any case, in recent weeks Europe has given a strong signal of life and has demonstrated the solidarity and inclusive side for which it has been founded. The Wilders cartel instead is the plastic representation that the narration of the sovereignists of a different Europe is a fake. Europe and national sovereignism is a contradiction in itself. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u129	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u131	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to make a statement before the intervention takes place. Even today we have witnessed the usual scene of her doing a compound surgery, moderate and dialogue and the Movimento 5 Stars that attacks oppositions with a low head. We already pointed out that this was a clear direction. Today in the House of Deputies we have had proof of this. President Conte, even today in the House we have had proof that all this is a written direction in the room of your press office, because you spoke today in the Chamber and immediately after you spoke a Member of the Movimento 5 Stars with a written speech that reported quotes of the speech you had just made. So, with all the evidence, the MP of the Movimento 5 Stars had first the intervention that you did and, then, let's not make fun of us, we would like the same moderate and calm tone, that you usually have, also the members of the Movimento 5 Stars. In fact, it becomes difficult to dialogue with her who is moderate and then have the Movimento 5 Stars that throws at us the mud palates as we discuss in the Chamber. Turning to the subject, we all know that the negotiation we are going to do is crucial. Let's not go around, we would have liked much more Government and a Premier with more experience. A bit of fragility is institutional and cannot be attributed to you. You will have before you the Merkel who has been chancellor for fifteen years, you will have before Macron who is a president of the Republic that no one can move for five years, and when Italy systematically presents itself with shaky governments, unfortunately the negotiations become more complicated. It is one of the many reasons why we reaffirm that a reform in the presidential sense of Italy would be very useful in every circumstance and, in particular, in this. Of course, it does not help to have a particularly divided majority within it, unfortunately it does not even help the image that the Government has given of not having the very clear ideas and of making the States General at Villa Pamphili to collect ideas. It would have been better to have very clear ideas or at least to pretend to have very clear ideas because the negotiation in Europe would have become easier. We will try to give you some advice, our President Giorgia Meloni did this this morning, I will humbly try to do it now. You are a capable and valid person. We don't have anything personal against her. Let's say that objectively he has recently found himself doing a new activity; to use a slightly colorful image, let's say that we introduce ourselves to the World Boxing Championship by deploying a talented violinist. Then let's try to give her some advice on board ring before she gets up: keep your guard up, watch your chin, never stand still. I mean, the usual. Mr. Count, they're trying to rip you off. That is the real reason why we are apprehensive. And they're trying to rub it in the meantime with the ESM. Why has the ESM become fundamental in Europe, in the media and in this House for someone? The excellent minister Gualtieri has explained well that everything we are told is a lie and, that is, that it is not money given away, it is a loan that is not additional resources. If we don't take those 37 billions from the ESM, it's not that we have fewer hospitals, we just fund them on the markets. The advantage is that, according to your Minister, we will have an advantage of about 400 million interests a year. Many economists say that's not the case. I also think that is not the case, but I take Gualtieri's words for good: calculator to the hand because opinions are questionable, but the bullet box no, 400 million per year is equal to 0,05 percent of the annual Italian public expenditure. With 900 billion Italian public spending and 400 million savings assumed by the ESM, we have 0.05%. In other words, 1 to 2,000. It would be like going to a family that spends EUR 2,000 on monthly expenses, loans and various loans and explaining to them that it can access a particularly advantageous credit line, whereby it would save interest on the mortgage one euro. One. 2,000 euros of monthly expenditure of that family, one euro of savings of MES. Do the calculations with the calculator, with the bullet, we call the task forces that the government has and verify that the savings of the MES is equal to one euro per 2,000 that we spend. Then let's not fool ourselves, it's not an economic motivation. What's the reason? I explain this by using two historical images. The first is that of the Trojan horse, we have said it a thousand times, the Troika horse, so the doors open to possible conditionality. The second historical image is that of the Caudine Forks, so Italy must do this act of submission to show that it needs Europe, but the Romans at least had lost the war before lowering their heads to the Caudine Forks. Do we need European aid? No, and that's the other big lie they're telling you. Italy pays at least 4 billion more to the European Union every year than it does and so we pay for our participation in the European club. According to the ESM, only according to the latest version, we have paid 14 billion. Do you know how many years it takes (soft interest and so on) to catch up? Thirty years. So let's do this: we take back our 14 billion and renounce the generosity of the ESM. The European Central Bank, however, is doing well, because it is buying government bonds, but this is also a lie. The European Central Bank, not me, has set itself a target rate of inflation at 2% per annum. In the eurozone we have an inflation rate of 0.2%, so the ECB's firepower is significantly lower, not what Brothers of Italy says, but what the ECB itself has set itself as its objective. The European package, therefore, is giving us absolutely nothing, and we must say this: Italy has always given Europe more than it has taken. All right, but the European context makes it easier for us: no. Before also Senator Ricciardi of the Movimento 5 Stars said things absolutely shared. Tax havens, competitive loss compared to the eurozone for the euro mechanism: from 1999 to 2007 - a German think tank did the calculation - every Italian, only because of the disadvantage of the single currency, lost 74,000 euros. In total we have lost 4,300 billion and that is what the Germans say, we do not say. So, what are we supposed to do? We should go to Europe and say, "Excuse me, institutions are our stuff." We fund it very generously; we ask you to do what you are paid for. The European context is clearly disadvantageous for Italy because we have everything we have said these days, so we are calling for a adjustment of the balance. You, President Conte, must go with your head to reiterate that Italy does not ask for help from Europe; Italy demands from Europe that the relationship of strength be rebalanced, which unfortunately are dramatically at the disadvantage of Italy, because of the weakness of Italian politics, also by virtue of the coup d'état of 2011, which took away the last Government that had the strength of a popular consensus behind it. So go to Europe, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and say that we are generous taxpayers of this European Union and that the European context favours Holland, Germany, France, the countries of the East and disfavors Italy and that we have our cards to play. In conclusion, since the time available to me is over, we reiterate that our image of Europe is not this business committee that we have found ourselves, which is of interest to the Franco-German axis and to the lobbyists. Ours is the historical image and vision of Europe, the one born in 1957, the one that was able in 1981 to welcome Greece, even if it did not have the characteristics to be part of it, which welcomed - to give an image dear to John Paul II - our brothers from the East after the end of the Soviet communist dictatorship. This is the image of Europe that we would like to find in the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u132	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u133	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u134	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is showing great self-esteem. Faced with the difficulties, the European Union is putting in place appropriate measures, capable of facing in solidarity the most serious economic, financial, social and health crisis since the post-war period. It is certified that Europe is the solution not the problem, especially for our country that is destined to be the first beneficiary of the measures allocated with about 500 billion at the disposal of Italy in just two years, that is to say a third of our gross domestic product, about twenty of financial maneuvers. Only now we need to act very quickly. The emerging decrees that we have approved so far, however positive, are not enough to satisfy all the needs of the country. Further action is needed to overcome many gaps, so that the economy does not implode itself. Already now, if there had not been the various interventions planned by Europe, our spread would be skyrocketing and the country would have been defaulted for a long time. Thanks to Europe and the various funding that it is preparing to allocate - EIB, Sure, ESM, ECB, next generation EU and budget surpluses - Italy will have a huge asset at a very low cost, which can be achieved without having to increase our public debt, which today unfortunately has reached even higher levels. These resources can enable us to cope with the current crisis by responding to the enormous need for liquidity and give us the opportunity to make strategic investments with which to carry out structural reforms that have been needed for decades. Now, however, we must soon dissolve the knot still open on the ESM, that ESM that, if only we wanted and asked, would probably have already been available with the beauty of 36 billion euros, resources that we cannot afford not to use, resources without conditionality at virtually zero rate, resources that we could use not only to increase beds and emergency machinery, with which we could hire nurses and other staff, but with which we could also innovate care through the use of new technologies, digitizing health management, introducing telemedicine, as is being done successfully in different countries. The fact that other Member States do not use the ESM does not mean that it is not convenient, on the contrary, if anything it is not convenient for them. For us, yes, it is. This depends on the fact that we are one of the few countries where the cost of national debt is much higher than the cost of the ESM. In addition, another often argued reason that recent ten-year multi-year Treasury bills sales would have gone well at just 1.65 percent, does not stand because using the ESM rather than BTPs will be much cheaper. It will allow us, in fact, to save six billion in ten years, ten times the savings produced by cutting the number of Members, just to have a plastic idea of what this means. That is why the country cannot afford not to resort to the ESM. We still have a bloody need for liquidity to prevent companies from failing and unemployment from exploding. That is why we share the content and the request expressed in the resolution tabled by Mrs Bonino and will vote in favour of it, as well as the majority. You, Mr President, have called the next European Council an appointment with history. You are right, Mr President, we are indeed on a date with history, for Italy and for Europe. Among other things, we are faced with an international scenario that is rapidly changing. On the part of the United States there continues to be a progressive disengagement on a whole series of international crisis scenarios, even when it comes to tackling major global problems of mistrust, President Trump's distrust in multilateral agreements weakens the whole architecture of international governance. Here Europe could become a decisive factor for international balance and security, supported by a considerable economic and technological force, but also civil and cultural. This is the responsibility that gives us the historical passage of this phase. Just at such a complex time, the European Union has an opportunity to act as a balance factor and become a driver of stability at international level, promoting a perspective in which supranational bodies and multilateral agreements count. We need, however, a step forward in the European Union's ability to express its foreign and defence policy in favour of international security and stability, at a time when the serious health crisis from Covid-19 and international geopolitical instability make it even more evident that it is important to speed up the path towards the creation of a truly unique European defence, with adequate resources and structures. That is why it is important that the issue of investment and the creation of a single European defence should also be included in the current debate on the European budget for the next seven years. In addition, President-in-Office of the Council, we must decide quickly on how we intend to best invest the huge resources at our disposal. And we do not only owe it to our allies in Brussels, who rightly ask for information even to silence the concerns and provocations of the so-called frugal countries; we owe it above all to our children, since, even at best, the same non-refundable funding will always be the debt of our country to the detriment of the new generations. That's why we can't afford to use them without building a better world, a better future, just for the sake of our kids. Europe is our home, Mr President. Europe is our opportunity for redemption and rebirth after dramatic months of health and economic emergency. There are no alternatives; indeed, it could be said to all those who continue to swear against Europe and against Italy: it is a good thing that Europe is there. While it is true that we continue to hear accusations and accusations against Europe, we must say quite clearly that there is no history outside Europe. Indeed, precisely during the worst difficulties Europe is demonstrating how capable it is not only of being supportive, but also of being extremely concrete, effective, generous, among other things with three women driving, putting in the field enormous resources, unimaginable to allocate as a single country. So let us say this, Mr President, to all the populist rights: it is counterproductive to continue to wink at nationalist ideologies or at an undergrowth of anti-European forces which, in the test of facts, are proving to be detrimental primarily to the interests of our country. When the game gets tough, it is the Orbáns who feed harsh tones against us and ask to vote against the aid to our country and those other countries in the South that have suffered the most from the crisis. We in Italy Viva are on the opposite side of those who attack democracy. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in announcing Italy's vote in favour of the aforementioned resolutions, we give you the task of imposing an authoritative line; a line which says yes to the European Commission's proposal, which says yes to public health, yes to development, ecology, equal rights and work. In a word, a line that says yes to Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u135	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u136	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u137	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, we share the approach that President Conte has proposed to us and we have appreciated the work of these difficult months in rebuilding a relationship with Europe. The European Council is certainly an extraordinary step, not only for Italy, but - as you have already pointed out - for the future of Europe. I would just like to make a few plant considerations. The Covid-19 epidemic has highlighted some fundamental problems. The first concerns the value of solidarity, understood, President, not only as solidarity between the countries of the Union, but also as one of the founding points of the European Union, and the indispensable value of health services and their universality. From this point of view, we need a qualitative leap in Europe, not only on the vaccine, but on technology and research, because here we are playing and playing a piece of the future of our economy and the European economy. It has shown us the unsustainability of the old and wrong austerity policy, which has created so much damage, increasing inequalities, and has demonstrated the historical insufficiency of a neoliberal plant in policies. We are debating so much about MES (I will then come back to this point), but a strategic debate on these issues is open in Europe and in the world. To hear - let me say this with respect, ladies and gentlemen - the usual list of what is wrong does not bring us up to the challenge and confrontation that we have in Europe with European partners and that is open in the world. Why can't we look up? It is evident (another lesson from Covid) that the sovereignist line does not exist and, if it existed, it would be a drama for this country. [[Applause]] I understand why Salvini talks to us about the integration fund (very serious problem): why is it difficult to take note of when, even just two months ago (do you remember, Mr President?), told her and told us that the idea of a change in Europe would be unworkable. Europe, ladies and gentlemen, has changed and is changing. [[Applause]] Did we solve the problems? No, there are still so many problems and never say that we have done what we expected Europe to do until we come to this Council. The question of timing is a decisive question: it is substance. But Europe has changed and has changed also thanks to the role that this Government has played and its initiative. Let's be honest (I have already said this on another occasion): the Germans understood that the idea of austerity, that is to keep domestic demand low in the countries, does not allow them to develop their economic policy. They understand that we need a strategic leap; then we think about conditioning and other things and we go to see seriously. But this is the novelty and it is a good new thing, all to be conquered, which, however, seriously questions us, Mr President. I do not want to make a list of initiatives, but I have also heard that the intervention of the ECB is not a fundamental intervention. I would like to reiterate that, as far as we are concerned, if the ECB had not made the choices it made, Italy would not be here today. We are not self-sufficient; no, we are not. I shall conclude by reminding myself first of all that we must never forget, ladies and gentlemen, that Covid has put us in this dramatic crisis. I would like to say to my colleagues in the opposition, especially those in the League: please stop saying that we do not know what small and medium-sized enterprises are, what an artisan is, what a worker is. That's enough! [[Applause]] Let us respect each other; I respect your positions, but I know what a small entrepreneur is and I do not take lessons from anyone from this point of view. [[Applause]] We must raise the level of discussion, but from time to time! [[Comments.]] By listening to him... But I would like to say that the Covid arrived when three emergencies were already clear: climate, technology and social and inequalities. We have made some measures and not everything works 100%, I know that. But now it is time to make this national recovery plan and move from policies of protection and support to strategic choices. Mr President, you know what I think: green economy, transition, investment. But I want to ask you two questions. The first: simplification is absolutely a necessity; deburocratization is a necessity. But, Mr President, if we do not give powers and strength to the public administration, we will never make a qualitative leap. [[Applause.]] We cannot think of going away in ten years; we must have the directors to manage the races; we must have the ORs to manage the races; we must have in the municipalities the town planners to change the organization of the cities. We can't fail this. Now, the emergency is linked to a strategic plan. We will check how this Council is doing and then we will be able to make an overall reasoning on the instruments to be used. I think that we need a strategic plan on health and I therefore think that we will have to check what are the most beneficial elements for our country; and no one from Europe has to tell us what tools we need to use. But it is up to us to decide on the basis of the substance. I have rightly heard different positions among my colleagues in the majority, but there is everyone's commitment not to have an ideological position. This is the best way and the choice you have made is right and we share it. Secondly, on the school, Mr President, you have already listened to me: I am and we are concerned. You have to do something extraordinary these weeks. However, I would like to say to Mr Salvini: the plexiglass is not good, but in order to find the way to do, as I think, training and didactics in presence it is right to use other structures as well. But we have to organize this and we will need more teachers, Mr President, you know that. We need to be ready to do everything. Finally, a new state-market relationship. On the subject of Alitalia, I appreciated the solution of the Council of Ministers this night. I would like to say to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that we must find a way, in our majority, to reach Councils in the morning and afternoon; that is the most useful thing, and you have understood what I mean. A new relationship between state and market: we must decide what is the strategic mission of the Deposit and Loan Fund. And then we have great powers, ENI and ENEL: this is where we make industrial policy; this is where we can build new industrial chains. About what? On the green new deal? About the ecological transition? This is where we have to jump. We must call on these companies to play a strategic role in relaunching this country's new manufacturing. Finally, with regard to the new labour policy, I think that we must anticipate Europe, which is discussing it: it is time we thought about the rights for all jobs and all workers, at a basis equal to all and not only the possible public companies for what concerns Autostrade, but also new participatory systems of workers in companies. This is the new Italy, to avoid that the dialogue between business and work is based only on the reduction of taxes or rights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u138	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u140	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, I would like to declare the PD Group's vote in favour of the joint motion for a resolution, which expresses a strong wish for a positive conclusion to the negotiations on the multi-year budget and on the next generation of the EU. On the other hand, I am voting against the first-signed motion for a resolution, Bonino - and we are sorry - because it focuses on an issue that is not on the agenda of the next European Council, namely the ESM credit line, which is one of the instruments that will be evaluated when the whole chessboard of availability is on the table and will be evaluated by this Parliament. As my colleague, Senator Alfieri, said, we are taking a decisive step in the reconstruction plan. Compared to this deadline, we expect Europe to show itself to be the protagonist, as it has done in recent weeks, with the activation of the measures of the European Central Bank, the suspension of the Pact and all the other instruments that we know well, denouncing the forecast that the usual professionals of the stepmother Europe had expressed. Europe will do nothing and today, with respect to the strong initiative of the European Union, they do not know what to say and do off-the-spot speeches and electoral meetings, without elections. On the other hand, Europe has acted well and has done so also thanks to the Italian Government's drive: now those resources will be spent all, as President Marcucci has often mentioned, and aimed at investments in the green economy, culture, tourism, health and digital. Mr Conte, you are certainly aware of the hostility of the last mile, as regards both the part of the reconstruction plan and the multi-year budget; you are also well aware of its limitations and will try to change them in the negotiations (I refer to the inadequate resources of Erasmus Plus and Creative Europe, but also to the lack of investment in a European body of solidarity of European youth, projects that express the highest added value of the European Union). So I think that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will work in this direction and I also entrust you with Laocoonte's warning to the Trojans: 'timeo Danaos et dona ferentes', i.e. 'temple the Greeks, even when they bring the gifts'. I am referring to certain statements, which you know perfectly well: that of the President of the European Council, Michel, and that of Prime Minister Rutte. The first would like to conclude everything within the European Council, i.e. the evaluation of all projects, with a mechanism of unanimity in the European Council. Think: the sun god! It is unacceptable for European democracy. [[Applause]] The mechanism of unanimity - Senator Romani is right - would paralyze the implementation of the reconstruction plan, in Italy and in Europe. Then there is Rutte, who says that you can go to September too, so we have to link the funds to the reforms. Enough of this conditionality! The Italian Government has already said this and repeat it: no conditionality, because we do not need lessons! [[Applause]] We make the reforms, we know when and how to do them and we do not need to have moralistic impositions. Someone has not yet memorized that there is always a purer, purer, that purifies you. Finally, what is needed in Europe, especially at this time, is a strong European leadership. I must say very sincerely that I am pleased and we are pleased that Angela Merkel is leading the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. We have been divided by many positions by the German Chancellor in our political history, but we must recognize with honesty that, thanks to the work, determination and foresight of the German Chancellor, thanks to the work of the Italian Government and thanks to the work of Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri and President Sassoli, we have managed to do something unexpected: a reconstruction plan for 750 billion euros, linked to the multi-annual budget, with measures adapted to the terrible pandemic and the emergency that we are suffering. Merkel played a decisive role and must be a point of reference in a pro-European alliance. See that the problem is no longer so much the contrast between frugal and cicadas and perhaps not even the division between sovereignists and Europeanists. The real problem today is the very survival of Europe and the models of liberal democracy, which are its founding substance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u141	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u143	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened, as always with great respect and attention, to Mr Pittella's speech and to all the speeches that preceded me and I must say that the approach to Europe, on the part of Italy, must certainly be a demanding approach, as one would say in those parts. We are net contributors and we give more than we have received so far. Of course, we should investigate how much of what we have received or could have received, we did not receive it to the end because we were not able to draw on the availability of which methods of use we were not completely masters. Let us try to be very frank with ourselves; let us try to speak with words of truth. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as I believe it has also been mentioned in other speeches before me, I believe that there is no Europe in itself good or bad, nourishment or stepmother, solidarity or rigorist. Surely this Europe, compared to another Europe that we have seen in other historical and political periods, has made available a firepower (that, yes, is a firepower) especially by the European Central Bank, never seen until now. It has provided the opportunity, at last, to share, to mutualize the European debt, not past but future, with the famous next generation EU. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I should like to say to you, as always, with respectful sympathy: I do not think that the Italian Government can present itself in Europe - I am also addressing my colleague, Mr Pittella - where you count, if you have strategic alliances, you count on the basis of the planning, credibility, the concreteness of the political action of the individual Member States, with a national programme of reforms that says what but not how: very little labels full of content. I do not believe that our President-in-Office can present himself in Europe with a simplification decree-law. You said, Mr President, that it is a measure that Europe envies us: here, we would at least like to read its contents. [[Applause.]] We know that this is a measure, except for agreements, which usually means - in the jargon of the government in office - that there is no agreement on anything. We know that the only possible simplification at this time would be to cancel all the previous measures whose implementing decrees make practically paralytic the action of this Government, starting from the decree-law cures Italy to the same decree-law liquidity, which are drops in a sea of thirst that many Italians have as the same decree-law relaunch, Mr President of the Council, that we have seen pass at speed: something rather dirty, I must say. [[Applause.]] We are very offended by what has happened, not only against us as an opposition, but also against the whole House, including the majority: a train launched at speed that did not stop at the senate station. [[Applause.]] We looked from the windows at the content of the decree-law relaunch, but we could not in any way act on the substance. This is not a great respect for Parliament. But let's talk about his toolkit, his toolbox, with which he will present himself Friday and Saturday in Europe. Of course, as we have said, it is a Council of the European Union that is not decisive at all, but it is an important stage in the negotiation of a European asset that you would call powerful: next generation EU, a fund to be drawn from the countries that need it. Personally I do not think it is appropriate for you to come to this negotiation after considering the extension of the state of emergency for Italy, which makes us make a very bad figure for those who look from the windows, from outside Italy, giving the impression that Italy is still a country at risk, that the Italians are a sort of convent of anointers with not sufficiently efficient health infrastructures, which therefore make an extension necessary, an extension of a state of emergency that has shot down, frozen the Italian economy and its productive categories, as well as having destroyed three months of family lives. He separated families, left elderly people, terrified grandparents alone, locked children in the house depriving them of school, games, friends, life; turned off lights in professional studies; unfortunately, turned off machines of productive cycles that are very hard to resume; lowered shutters that are hard to get up again. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do you assume that you can prolong such a state of emergency? [[Applause.]] If you really love our country, I repeat once again, as in all my speeches, that the only extension that your Government and you personally should make is that of the tax deadlines of the Italians at 31 January 2021. [[Applause]] There are 6 million VAT matches that are not earning: they are those lights off, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, those productive cycles, those artisans, those traders, those industrial companies that are not hanging up the recovery that you would take down even more if it extended the state of emergency; these people, these companies that are not working on Monday, July 20 will have to pay taxes. How? With the money they don't have? We are asking you for something very trivial, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what other European countries have already done in every possible way, putting money on the current accounts of families and businesses, not making poor entrepreneurs and individuals make useless queues, as if they were bankrupt entrepreneurs, postulants in front of banks, to obtain small loans in ways that only a very complicated, particularly difficult, astral conjunction makes possible. That is not the case, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in dealing with emergencies. That is not the way to go in Europe. You have to say in Europe that everything has not gone well in Italy. His policies didn't work, you wasted time, you wasted money. In the decree-law I raise there are no productive investments, there are no investments on the tangible and intangible infrastructures that our country needs. I am thinking of small, large, medium-sized public and private works, intangible infrastructure, knowledge economy, school, training, school! Do you know the word "school"? [[Applause]] But remember her, not just here. In September, in addition to the release of redundancies and the end of the integration fund (for those who have had it, because 800,000 people have not yet had the integration fund by way of derogation and are still waiting for its promises), 12 million families, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will have to understand what they will do with their children. You must not talk to your technical and scientific committees, but with the teachers, who will tell you that some forms of didactics for certain ages are not possible, you cannot do didactics at a distance. How are the benches, ergonomics? We are doing the ergonomics, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: you have never done tasks in class, as my colleague Mr Gallone says. [[Applause]] I have asked you many times if you hear the sound of the square; do you know that the square speaks to you every day? Today there were beauticians, hairdressers, barbers, and don't tell me that haircut did it on its own, because I don't believe it! [[Applause]] Then, at least in respect of this, listen to them, do not listen to its committees; indeed, we would like it to apply the famous Colao plan. The problem is that it has done so well that it is not good for you, because it focuses on investment and not on welfare expenditure, on the assistance you propose giving very little to the few, feeding the non-work and not focusing on the only thing that really contrasts poverty: work! [[Applause]] We must support those who work, those who produce, we must not give money to those who do not work, because it makes them increasingly poorer and increasingly deprived of prospects. How can we think that you are going to Europe with this policy and a plan that we do not agree with, why do we not think that Italy can be raised on this basis? We have often proposed to her our help, we have told her to focus on infrastructure, on tax reform, to give air now with the suspension of payments to the Revenue Agency, which is also starting - says Ruffini, a disturbing thing - 8 million debit cards plus another 22 million to those poor VAT matches that no longer know how to do, do not earn. [[Applause]] You're a lawyer like me, you know young lawyers don't make any more money? What do we say to young lawyers, young accountants, young professionals? What do we tell them? What do we tell them? Because I don't want to share the responsibility for such wrong choices. We don't want to share it. We have tried in every way to propose alternatives: bureaucracy reform, justice reform, investment in infrastructure, investment in brick, everything that healthyly restarts growth and relaunches the economic cycle. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there are many quotations in this period: Churchill and Manzoni, the latter, which is also mentioned in connection with the issue of the plague. Manzoni says in the "Promessi Sposi": "It will come one day." There will be a day, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when all of us, but you in particular, who are very exposed, will ask not only what you have told us, but what you have sown. And we hope that that day will come soon, because when that day comes we of Forza Italia and all the centerright united we will have, with new projects, new enthusiasms and new hope for our beloved, beloved Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u144	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u146	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the large empty rooms usually have a persistent echo. For some strange mystery of political acoustics, Mr President-in-Office of the Council's big empty sentences have had a poor echo of applause, only in one area of his majority. [[Applause]] It was particularly anechoic - which is not a bad word - for some reason the PD, which, however, joined the applause when the President-in-Office of the Council made a ritual reference to the need to keep Parliament involved. On the other hand, I remember it (he was there and I was there), when all this wonderful adventure began, to make a reference to the centrality of Parliament which then got a little lost. We would have applauded, of course, the desire to involve Parliament, if, after so many months, the six months Mr Candiani had snapped, we were not convinced that these calls are no longer hypocritical, but certainly rhetorical. Yet we would need Parliament's involvement, that is at least what the rhetoric of European officials tells us, where we are told (to me it has been told so many times in these long months) that when we arrive at the negotiating table Finnish, Latvian or Estonian is strong because his Parliament gives him a mandate and therefore the negotiator can put red lines because Europe respects democracy. Then perhaps we should, if so, come here and reason on what our red lines are. Instead of understanding what are the negotiating areas available and what are the objectives that the Government wants to achieve, there has been snapped all the prontuary of the sentences made, the great phrases that do not want to say anything, the whole European subsisier: "united you win", "back you do not return", "Little ancient world", the implicit Italianetta and of course the "do soon." Hurry up, that is schnell, that of course Italians now know how it works, because after the "be quick", depending on the historical contexts, there is a burst of austerity or a burst of machine pistol. It never ends well after a "be quick" anyway. Instead, we should take the time to reflect above all on the details that are the ones that delight the connoisseur: for example, we have been told that the European institutions have shown themselves to be sensitive. I have here before me a plaque that reminds us of a phrase by Vittorio Emanuele II I cannot help but think of "we are not insensitive to the cry of pain." Therefore, Europe has not been insensitive to the cry of pain of the Italians. What kind of speech is that? Should he have been insensitive? What do we expect from the institutions? They have done their duty, if they have not been insensitive; it is not that we must always be prone, grateful and subaltern. Among other things, it should also be understood how they have translated this sensitivity into practice. Italy has contributed decisively: all right, it will also be true and, if you like, I believe you. The papers, however, do not say that and neither do the titles of the international press. On 19 April the Spanish proposal arrived; on 21 April the Commission's Budget Directorate-General proposal arrived and on 22 April the Italian "cocchiera fly" proceeded with its proposal, which was then de facto the Commission's proposal. In any case, beyond who was propulsive force, we need an operation of truth. What has Italy contributed to, since we still do not know how the recovery fund will work? [[Applause]] Shall we talk about it? Now I don't want to go back to figures and numbers, not least because no one has them. You explained to us that you want more grants, more subsidies: but, do we want to do a truth operation? In any case, it is not gifted money; in any case, it is money that must be reimbursed through contributions to the Community budget, through own resources that are new taxes, which is new taxation without representation. Eh, how hard this propaganda is! However, if you want to tell the Italians that a rain of billions is coming, it is also good for us, as long as it is clear that you tell them, because those billions will not come. [[Applause]] At this time, in particular, they did not come because Europe, not only did not collect them, but neither did it agree on how to collect them. So I really don't understand what certain sources of press are talking about. However, we are pleased to know that you in Europe have been so effective; we would be pleased because, if it were true, the results obtained there - which we do not see, but which you see and we want to believe - would compensate for those not obtained here. Shall we talk about it? Here on 6 July, from an office of its Government, there were 30 legislative measures of its Executive that would have required 431 implementing measures, of which 73 have been adopted so far, so that 358 still remain to be adopted, of which 125 with expired deadline: in particular, 26 implementing measures of the three "decretons" Covid have expired. The strategy of announcing the decrees and then not making them is showing the rope: for example, we are still waiting for the decree simplifications, because it does not go to the Journal even tonight, as you will know and you will have known before me, right? [[Applause]] Beyond this, in the end the decrees are made, they come out in the Journal, the trumpets sound, they roll the drums and then they do not make the implementing decrees: for necessity that then the people do not see the money, if it is not decided neither how much they are, nor especially how to give them, so there is definitely something wrong. If I can, quietly, as I am a man of order, in the sense that I like the rooms ordered, at Palazzo Carpegna I have in between all the cardboard boxes that I had prepared to leave because, being a correct person, I wanted to leave the room to the President of the Commission, whom we would have elected this evening, in place: I would have just passed a cloth to remove the dust. Please do me a favor: agree with your majority, vote, so I find myself another place. I'm looking forward. If you can do it, try it. [[Applause]] Ours, of course, will be a no, as yours was a no, because you, with your government, have expressed your opposition to our resolution calling for one thing, one thing only: that Parliament should be made to express on each of the wonderful articulations of this splendid project which is made up of so many acronyms, three adjectives (poor, inclusive and sustainable) and zero money. However, we wanted to vote on the Sure, the ESM, the EIB, the recovery and residence fund: we wanted to, let us do so, let us play with democracy. However, it does not seem to me that we are moving in this direction here. And then we will vote for a no, which is not a liturgical no. We do not vote no because we are the opposition and we must say no. It is a no that goes against the things that repugnant us, because to us repugnant the clichés, we repugn the illiberal nature of the project, of this Leviathan, the idea that by centralizing everything in this immense bureaucratic monster we will solve all our problems. You don't want compromises down and that's a very funny thing, a noble aspiration, but do you know what system you're in? You are in a system that fatally lives on the downward compromises because in a monetary union if you do not devalue the currency, you devalue wages. You want to be pragmatic, but then when will you stop telling us the fairy tale of those who give us the money to reopen the hospitals that shut us down? [[Applause.]] This fairy tale isn't funny anymore. I am therefore beginning to conclude quickly. We appreciated the dignity with which Mitsotakis said something very simple: let us make our reforms, we know what is to be done in our country, we do not need the lessons, especially those of Germany. A country where, as the sovereign Pittella recalled, we had a supervisory authority that, instead of investigating a scandal, threatened the journalists who were revealing it. I'm talking about the wirecard and I'm talking about the journalists from the "Finncial Times." We now have a movie that tells us what the ESM has done in Greece, which is being censored in that country. Of course we do not need the morality and lessons of these peoples. If you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, come back here in the spirit of Mitsotakis, come back here without hiding the difficulties from the Italians, but showing that you believe in them, that you have confidence in their ability to be arbiters of their destiny, rather than continuing with these sterile, liturgical, boring calls to the necessity of this European Union, which is a union that makes weakness, it is not a union that makes the strength because it prevents us from reacting promptly to the challenges of globalisation, if you come back like this, we in the League would also applaud it, especially if it allowed us to make our contribution. Of course, in order to do that, you should visit us from time to time, but since that is not the case, and because you are very visibly not here to defend the dignity and independence of Italians, but to defend projects that are alien to our country and our people, I fear that with my Group we will vote against majority resolution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u147	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u148	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u149	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council; I have listened to his communications and I have noticed - and this, Mr President, is a connotation that I very much appreciate - also a certain emotion in the final part, which renders justice to an aspect of his which, I assure you, is also appreciated outside of here, which is a sense of humanity and awareness of what is being done and of the challenge that is being met. [[Applause.]] This, President, must have escaped most, because before this action - and we remember Italy's action within Europe, the Government that has become the leader of eight other countries, carrying forward these requests and attracting these European funding, unprecedented, to face a rebirth of the country - those who love that country should grasp and claim the sense of this prestige and this strength. But it is a lot of chatter, Mr President, because I note that, speculatively, in reverse, the more we go in one direction, obviously seeking cooperation on these premises, the more on the other hand there is an instrumentalization, a typical interpretation of the sterile opposition, which is absent at all the most important moments. [[Applause]] He's absent and critical. We have even criticized the fact that the General States were in an institutional villa because perhaps they had become accustomed to Arcore before, I don't know, or in other places. The aperitifs have been criticized; I would not quote the aperitifs and come out of the easy jokes. However, Mr President, since this is a matter which obviously concerns the fate of the country, because of a sense of justice - I had also informally anticipated it to my colleagues - I cannot hear a story so far from the truth. Well, Senator Salvini says that we made a nice gift to Autostrade and that the title of Atlantia splashed upwards. We didn't make the gift at Autostrade, but the Benetton family did it, think, to the League when it donated 150,000 euros and not only to the League but also to the Brothers of Italy. [[Applause]] Are you going to explain to the country the system of donations, which were down, by the Benettons? Don't give an explanation of this, you look at it well. Quote other gifts, not these things: they do not concern you. [[Applause. Protests]] You see, I've prepared a kind of "ballarium," a prontuary of the bales that are being told immediately. [[Applause]] And it is for titles, since Senator Salvini, but in turn also other senators, always tell the great classics of propaganda. You are grieving, Senator, who has spoken now, in the last speech. [[Protests.]] Wet, I forgot, it's not a disrespect for Bagnai. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u150	Senator Perilli, speak to the presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u151	Please let me speak. No interruptions are permissible. Mr Perilli (M5S). Senator Bagnai feels sorry for the propaganda... president. Talk to me. Mr Perilli (M5S). He said that propaganda is annoying: I think he was addressing himself or whoever, in turn, made propaganda, because, I said, I have an index for titles of bullies that are always repeated. Let's start with the recovery fund: it doesn't take a year. Where did you read that it took a year? It will be ready in January 2021, but you take it for granted and on this you build your narration, in addition to the fact that the ESM would activate it thousands of times, besides the fact that there are no measures in favour of companies and to protect the job. Professionals are always mentioned, but it is not mentioned, for example, with regard to taxes and the tax regime, the abolition of the safeguard clauses that would cost our country, in 2021, 20 billion. [[Applause]] And do you know who made the VAT increase? The center-right when he was in the government. But you have to say these things and even if you don't say them, they'll find them. Among other things, there is a faldon, which I said is the faldon of the balls that are said, without saying that there has been a decrease in the tax wedge that benefits 16 million employees. That is not said. It is not said that there was, for 2020, the abolition of the balance and IRAP down payment for businesses up to EUR 250,000. That doesn't matter. Emergency income doesn't matter. Just wave a faldon, saying: look how full this provision is! You take your mobile phone and you say, without verification and without being able to share it: in other countries, in a few seconds, you can do what you did not do. Did you do that when you were in the government? You didn't do anything. [[Applause]] Inability! Inability! Inability! And see that it does not save you and does not honor you to say of Minister Azzolina that he does or is there. The beauty is that when you come here you talk about maximum respect and collaboration: the President of the Council is called a criminal, a seller of pots by Brothers of Italy. But when you come to this House you say that you do not like the tons of mud of the Movimento 5 Stars. What's that got to do with anything? But these are your behaviors, they qualify you, it's your story, it's not mine. [[Applause]] Not a word about the fact that it is paid directly by the INPS which can anticipate 40%. You're careful not to say that, because the narrative that works outside of here for you is to say that you don't pay workers, you don't pay the supplement fund by way of derogation. [[Protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u152	Please. Everyone says what they want.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u153	Mr Perilli (M5S). I would like to get to the question of migrants, Mr President, which has nothing to do with this. The number of migrants relocated to Europe, for example, has almost tenfolded from the Salvini era to that of the Conte-a government. It is tenfold and the figure has quadrupled in proportion to the landings. Whether there has been an inability or, worse, if there has been no respect for the laws we will see it when it comes to deciding on the authorisation of what has happened with respect to the dignity of the people. [[Applause]] If there is to be a responsibility, as all citizens will pay and that is to be ascertained. [[Comments.]] It is impossible to talk about measures to the citizens. But I know that words bother you; words are arrows, if they come, they come, but this is the reality. If you have the patience to discard the cards, you will realize that it makes no sense to quote, speaking of love for the Homeland. Among other things, this country - allow me - is already in the perspective of rebirth; it is already a country that wants to return to happiness. Do you know why? Because he's free from their government, he's already free. [[Applause. Comments]] Mr President, I invite you to continue, on behalf of the people who support you for all the actions you have been able to communicate to the country, to take forward the initiatives aimed at finding the resources that will be for the benefit of all, even of those here who are trying to diminish the scope not only of your Government, but of Italy and of all the citizens, at the heart of whom they claim to be able to speak. But it's not like that. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u154	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u155	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u156	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I have tabled with two other colleagues, Senator Richetti and Senator De Falco, a resolution on the ESM, which is no stranger - allow me - to the package we are talking about. I believe that its negotiating position on the next generation EU will be weakened, not strengthened, by the ambiguity of a resolution, which is not even able to clearly establish that a loan can be accepted, which would save Italian taxpayers. So much so that it does not decide on this, because its majority is undecided. The opposition is certainly the same, but the greater responsibility obviously lies with those who govern. You see, Mr. President, I think the Movimento 5 Stars... where are you? Here? [[Comments.]] Don't get excited, please, calm down. [[Comments.]] I think the Movimento 5 Stars will change their minds about the MES... [[Comments. Applause]] I'm defending myself! Will you let me talk? I'm defending myself. As it passed very quickly from the alliance with Farage to the emotional quotations of Altiero Spinelli. But if we decide in three months, we'll all pay for this delay. [[Comments.]] Link Pittella, the problem is that today there is hunger for liquidity in our country; then there will be also in October and November. But now it is essential to put schools in a position to reopen and leave with the hospital reinforcement. We have so much need of liquidity, that I already hear of a new budgetary deviation of 20 billion and Bankitalia told us, if not lying, that we have done 40 billion debt in just one month. The interests that Italians will pay thanks to this non-decision, which I call the Crime tax (now will not insult me anyone), are due to the fragility of your majority. Mr Bagnai, I do not want to hear this Greek story anymore. [[Comments]] Stop, stop! The Greek crisis, as you well know, is from 2009 and the ESM was not there. Okay? They must have used other tools. Good? Bad? I don't know; but it wasn't the MES. The MES came in 2012, much more stringent, and as you know, both Portugal and Ireland used it with great success. So on this true hoax, or on this historical ignorance, let's close. Finally, see, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I think we would have done you a favor if we had strengthened it in this negotiation. And I think she's gonna have the way uphill, because you didn't. Dear colleagues, you must decide, you of the PD, you of Italy Viva, that you have already done so and thank you, you of Forza Italia themselves must decide whether to join the vote of the populist front anti MES or if you want to give a reasonable vote. Vote for the Bonino, Richetti, De Falco motion. [[Comments]] Stop it!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u157	Senator Bonino, "stop it" is all I can say. So stay calm and finish, because you have exceeded plenty of time for the dissenting explanation of vote. Okay? Please, terms.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u158	Mr President, you are right and I apologise. Normally I'm more polite, let's say, except for the fact that I've been a little nervous, because it's impossible to say a word without ending up under a sea of insults. But I wanted to tell you: strengthening this negotiation depends on you, not only on your fragility, but also on all your potential. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u159	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u160	About what, Senator La Russa? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). The order of business, Mr President. I think it's time to change this thing we need to do to talk. There's no more coronavirus that serious. He's gone.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u161	[[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u162	Excuse me, I'll talk to you. Sit down, I'll talk. Unfortunately, I have to note that the rules of distance are not being observed in this House. Then, since we said that we do not want to lower our guard, I call you to your sense of responsibility, because I see the full benches without distance and the forums that are not empty. Please, Senator La Russa. What are you asking for?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u163	Thank you, Mr President, because I did not allow myself to change the rules, but to call for an assessment. I don't understand why I have to come all the way down here to talk. Anyway, that's fine, that's not the problem.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u164	Tell me what you want to do.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u165	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. I believe that you should consider the possibility at this time - otherwise the defence would be late - of allowing us to intervene on a blatant slander worthy of criminal charges. [[Comments.]] Let me judge that I've been political for many years... [[Comments]] Too many for you. I will do it again and forever with the word you use, "honesty" but having demonstrated it in fact. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u166	Senator La Russa, you answer to me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u167	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Yes, Mr. President, but if I'm interrupted... Give me a minute. The Parent Company of the 5 Stars said - there are the recordings - that Brothers of Italy, at the same time, took money: It would be lawful... [[Comments.]] I don't know. I can't speak for Forza Italia. Like I said, he'd take money from Benetton. It doesn't matter if it's legal or illegal. Since we have never taken a lira, neither in lawful form nor in illegal form - but I repeat not even in lawful form - from Benetton. And since this argument has been used in support of a political thesis that I do not want to repeat and that you have heard, I ask that the Presidency now allow us to remedy this vile accusation. [[Comments]] Repetitious accusation. I apologize from the Parent Company. [[Comments.]] If it is not true, if they are not there, it is fine; there will be a jury of honor, there will be a civil and criminal court in which I hope to give up every parliamentary prerogative to pay what will be due. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u168	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u169	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u170	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I would like to thank Senator La Russa - Senator, you have called me into question and I am answering her - who allows me to quote more precisely. He's right, and I have to add some details. The article quoted is from the newspaper "The Daily Fact" and says: The Benetton family has always done their business with a proper distance from the Roman palaces, but something strange happens in 2006. When we start talking about a merger between Autostrade for Italy and the Spanish Albertis. Before I met the tenant... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u171	Excuse me...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u172	Mr Perilli (M5S). A cheque of 150,000 euros each for the center-right coalition, Alleanza Nazionale, Forza Italia and Lega Nord. [[Applause.]] At the time, he was National Alliance. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u173	No, no, no, sorry.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u174	Mr Perilli (M5S). It says so. It says so. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Excuse me, but I am interrupting this discussion here... PERILLI (M5S). I mentioned... president. Excuse me... PERILLI (M5S). Let me finish. I mentioned a newspaper article... president. I do not believe that the Newspaper Fact can be a source of law. Mr Perilli (M5S). Wait. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u175	I do not think that this quotation can be a source of law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u176	Mr Perilli (M5S). I'm sorry, but he won't let me talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We're talking about something serious. Mr Perilli (M5S). The only clarification I make is that it was the National Alliance and not the Brothers of Italy. [[Applause.]] All right, you're right. It was National Alliance. [[Comments]] It is written in the newspaper article. What do you want from me? [[Vivaci commentati]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u177	Don't make me suspend the session.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u178	Take back your... [[Comments.]] Then I'll take everyone's word off. Mr Perilli (M5S). The Russian, you have to sue the Daily Fact, not me. It is written on the Newspaper Fact.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u179	I take the floor to all of you, and I close here by saying that on this matter, which is undoubtedly of enormous gravity, we will be deepening. [[Comments.]] And of enormous gravity [[Applause]] , because I don't think the Newspaper Fact can be a source of law. [[Applause]] So before we go to the vote... [[Comments.]] If you don't all sit down, I'll suspend the session. Take back all your seats. Please, I ask that the senators Let the quaestors take action so that all may stand in their seats. Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, Pharaoh, De Petris and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u180	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u181	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u182	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business, because I would like to have certainty and confidence on the part of the Government that the contrary opinion has been expressed on the right resolution, having tabled a resolution which I have briefly reworded in a text 2, which reads as follows: "It commits the Government not to give its assent to agreements which provide for forms of conditionality that may affect the economic policy choices of the Italian State." Therefore, if the Government's opinion against not agreeing to agreements providing for conditionality is confirmed, it means that the Government and those who were to vote against this resolution is in favour of conditionality (in parenthesis, the troika). [[Applause.]] So whether I like it or not, Senator Bagnai's call to Greece seems very topical to me in this motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u183	Senator Calderoli, this reformulation, i.e. text 2, was submitted to the Government's opinion and only this one was. So, I don't think the government has anything to say against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u186	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, the previous speech was of a different nature than the order of business. [[Applause]] It should prevent a criminal complaint from being made in this House. President Calderoli has now used us to speeches on the order of business that are not, like this: you, Madam President, must ensure that this House is not mocked on time with biased interpretations of the Rules of Procedure. [[Applause.]] Please, first of all, ensure that your two Vice-Presidents in the centre are properly and respectful of this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u187	I always guarantee the proper behaviour of this House, which must be that of everyone, of course. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Calderoli. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] I call on Senator Bonino and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 3 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 4 tabled by Senators Bernini, Ciriani and Romeo. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 5 (text 2), tabled by Senator Paragon and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u188	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorized by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of trust... [[Protests. Recalls of the President]] . . on the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of bill No 1874, converting Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020 into the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u190	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 34 in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened here in the Chamber to organise the relevant debate. I authorise the 5th Permanent Commission to meet, in order to give its opinion on the financial cover profiles of the text of Law No 1874, which converted Decree-Law No 34 of 19 May 2020. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 7.13 p.m. and resumed at 7.48 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u191	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u192	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u193	Bergesio (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the Minister and authoritative members of the Government, as a positive result for Italian agriculture, are banning the provision for the sanatorium of illegal immigrants which, in thirty days, has obtained 80,000 requests, of which almost 90% relate to positions of colf, caregivers and others that have nothing to do with seasonal workers or farm workers. You are without shame! It can't work like that. As we had predicted at the Salvini Premier League - and a study by the Moressa Foundation based on the latest data from the Viminale confirms this - not only is there a risk of fictitious memberships, because in order to obtain a residence permit everything and more is done, but the real problem is that the costs would not be sustainable for our public accounts; this is very serious. A sanatoria conquered with tears - unfortunately only television - with the excuse to favor the work in the fields of laborers and migrants, which however went to exclusive use of others. A manifest failure, costly and ineffective. Italy needs sensible choices. Of tears, Italian families have already shed them and continue to shed many more. The Minister will come to the House and answer our question which we tabled last week on this subject on time. Mr President, there was no need for an army of slaves, but incentives, reductions, regulated prices, quality of the supply of labour: farmers are well aware of this, those that this Government continues to humiliate by speaking exclusively of head of state. You can only express moral judgments and demonize those who sacrifice themselves and work hard. A well-known daily newspaper, the Republic, certainly not sovereignist or leghistic, last week published a letter from a citizen to Minister Bellanova. This citizen tried to regularize a migrant and at some point in his letter he wrote: That's why the biech rhetoric benefits from the pavidity demonstrated also by the Government that launched its model of sanatoria and you, Madam Minister, are the best ally of the corporals and unscrupulous masters. And it seems to me that his tears acquire a new and more bitter meaning! Well, your way of governing the agricultural sector will send thousands of family businesses into crisis. Drop your seats and go home for the good of farmers, but above all for the good of all Italians! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u194	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u195	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u196	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to bring to the attention of the House one of the latest episodes of verbal and physical violence and racial aggression in which madness, hatred and mental and personal perversions mix and find fertile ground in the latent and serpentant climate of racial intolerance, unfortunately still present sporadically in our country. What happened to the player of Paralympic basketball, Beatrice, twenty-three years old, is to be blamed and condemned firmly and firmly. Beatrice was offended twice: as a disabled person and as a foreigner who lives in Italy. This star of the national Paralympic basketball team, Romanian of origins, but who has lived and studied in Italy for sixteen years, with Italian citizenship, forced in wheelchair by a polio contracted to three months of life, has been verbally attacked and apostrophated as "handicappata" and "foreigne." Confounding his disability, which has already marked his life, and his racial origin as an indelible mark that he carries on, represents the violent expression of a disturbed mind, but also a warning bell of the particular climate of social tension and cultural backwardness that is lived in some areas of our country. I express the solidarity and closeness of the entire Senate Chamber and my personal presence to Beatrice and her family. It is serious and unbelievable that even today such episodes of hatred, violence and ignorance must be commented on and noted. I hope that the person who has committed this insane and ignoble gesture will be morally identified and condemned by the whole country. I conclude by saying that this episode can represent a moment to reflect everyone, no one excluded. Respect for others is the basis of civil coexistence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u197	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussion of the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law "relaunch" into the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the debate on confidence, which will begin tomorrow at 9.30 a.m., one hour and forty-five minutes was allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. They will follow the explanations of vote and call you. The question time at 3 p.m. tomorrow and the discussion of motions on Tuesday 21 July remain confirmed. The Conference of Leaders will meet again on the same day on Tuesday 21, at 3 p.m. in the Koch Room, to define the schedule of work for the following weeks. The Groups indicated the subjects covered by the motions to be placed on the agenda of Tuesday 21 July from 9.30 a.m., which are the following: drinking water sanctuaries; Aspi-Autostrade per l'Italia; EINECS; peer schools; youth employment; protection of the national artistic heritage. Motions which have not already been submitted must be received by tomorrow at 5 p.m.; any motions connected by Monday 20, at 1 p.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u198	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-15-LEG18-Senato-sed-240.ana.u199	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 16 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.01 p.m.
