ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u3	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, this year marks the hundredth anniversary of the birth of Emilio Colombo, historian exponent of the Christian-Democratic political area and one of the most significant interpreters of our republican history. Emilio Colombo embraced the political commitment with the passion, enthusiasm and concreteness - to use his words - of a young adult who had lived the years before the Constitution, especially those immediately preceding, those of Italy defeated, destroyed, of Italy who wondered if he would have his own tomorrow. His experience among the benches of Parliament began from the constituent Assembly, of which he was among the youngest members, elected at only twenty-six years old. During his long political commitment - as many as 16 legislatures - Emilio Colombo has repeatedly been State Secretary, Minister for Agriculture, Foreign Trade, Industry and Trade, Treasury, Budget and Economic Planning, Grace and Justice, Foreign Affairs and Finance; President of the Council of Ministers from 1970 to 1972. On every occasion he was able to demonstrate great competences, rigour, a sense of responsibility and respect for the institutions. In fact, he was strong in his conviction that it was precisely the institutions' task to transmit to the citizens a fundamental sense of security and stability, conditions which he considered indispensable in order to give solid foundations to the growth of a truly free, truly democratic country. Deep was the link with his homeland, Basilicata, and with all South Italy, that Emilio Colombo put at the center of many public policies promoted by him for the development of infrastructure and productive activities. But Emilio Colombo was also one of the main Italian actors in the construction of the European Union: the dream of his generation that in that communion of democratic intentions and aspirations saw an opportunity to eradicate every conflict through the sharing of universal principles of solidarity, brotherhood and mutual consideration. Twice elected to the European Parliament, he was President of the European Parliament from 1977 to 1979. He played a leading role in the creation of the Common Agricultural Policy and was one of the first supporters of the Single Market and the Maastricht Treaty. Appointed senator for life in 2003 by the then president of the Republic Carlo Azeglio Ciampi, Emilio Colombo enriched with his intelligence, his experience and his uncommon political sensitivity also the prestige of this Assembly, becoming for many young senators a reference point and a valuable advisor. With his death, democratic and republican Italy remained orphan of the last of its founding fathers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u6	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, I have a great honour in recalling Emilio Colombo, with whom I share the land of origin by venture. You, Mr President, have already mentioned the many and very high responsibilities that Mr Colombo has had. His cursus honorum was so vast and so high that in fact the half-century account of our Republic can be said. Pope Pacelli, meeting him as a young man in 1946, happily predicted: This Columbus will fly. A few weeks later, his first election was made among the Constituents, with 21,000 votes preferably in Potenza. Its distinctive traits, elegance, kindness, ease of relationship with anyone, reasoned oratory, the ability to understand, anticipate and control political processes and its strong territorial roots immediately made it an undisputed and popular leader. But it was his ability to vision that made him a statesman; he was also an forerunner on European policies. Colombo's Europeanism was clear and coherent, at the same time defending the interests of Italy and Europe. He was the first Italian negotiator - "very respectable" he called Montanelli - in that very delicate moment of crisis of agricultural policies following the so-called crisis of the empty chair, which Columbus helped to bring back to the negotiating table. He was indeed a great Europeanist: in 1981, the Genscher-Colombo plan, signed by Germany and Italy, defined the cornerstones of European integration, with the birth, five years later, of the European Economic Community. He was able to combine the highest exercise of political representation around the world and relations with his constituency. He was one of the highest exponents of the Catholic democratic culture of our country. His most beautiful years lived them at the Treasury: ten years spent next to the unforgettable governor Guido Carli, facing together the first great Italian inflation after that of De Gasperi, an extraordinary history. For me it is also a personal honour to have known him and, although starting from different political identities, to have always considered him a high reference, a model for anyone who knows how to see in politics an instrument of emancipation and progress and in the search for synthesis the heart of the democratic process, the primacy of politics and the function of the parties and the ruling classes. Here's one of his beautiful words: It is not understood that future ruling classes are formed in parties. And that therefore the parties, the real ones, are necessary. This Republic and - as you mentioned - this Parliament owes him a great deal. Remembering him a hundred years after his birth is a duty and a warning, in these difficult times that the country will be able to overcome also thanks to the memory of his example. [[Applause from the PD, IV-PSI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u8	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u9	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank you for the sensitivity with which you wanted the Senate of the Republic to address itself today, a hundred years after the birth of the unforgettable President Emilio Colombo. His words and those of my colleague Pittella, full of emotion and personal memories, would not deserve any more additions, because your speeches have been very exhaustive. I met Emilio Colombo more than forty years ago, when I was in the youth movement of Christian Democracy, and I keep his memory of the best tradition of the ruling class of the First Republic and of the Christian Democracy. His name flows next to that of Giulio Andreotti, Amintore Fanfani, Cossiga, Marcora, Bisaglia, Donat-Cattin: personalities who knew how to listen and always be able to open themselves, also and especially to the youth world. And this is incredible for a ruling class that has been painted as immutably government: it has indeed been so, because that ruling class has been for forty or fifty years at the highest peaks of the state and President Colombo has been Minister for 28 times. Yet, their ability to dialogue and listen was the real reason for the particularity of that season. Senator Pittella recalled the morbid relationship between Emilio Colombo and Basilicata. I recall that Colombo, at the summits of the State and the European Parliament on Saturday and Sunday, could not miss his presence in Potenza, Matera, Basilicata. His relationship with those people was an expression of a ruling class who spoke with the people. This is the real problem today that the media or the Internet can't surrogate in any way, because the real relationship is what you have looking people in the face and understanding the problems of your own reality. Emilio Colombo has always done so, with great personal sacrifices and great consistency. Since - as you know - I am mainly involved in international politics, I would like to remind you that in three words there is the history of the degasperian location of Italy in our post-war period: multilateralism, Europe and the Atlantic Alliance. Well, Emilio Colombo represented these three concepts. As far as multilateralism is concerned, I would remind you that he was also a Minister with delegation for relations with the United Nations. Without multilateralism there is no solution to contemporary problems and this was true for the post-war period, but also for the post-Covid-19 period: if multilateralism is overthrown, there is no possibility of defending us from invisible enemies who have no borders. The Covid-19 does not stop at the Italian, American, Russian or Chinese borders, but it propagates in the world and the world must be united in countering such phenomena, as it had to be - and it has been - in the fight against terrorism and as united it must be to improve the conditions of the environment of our planet, which are dramatically a threat to our children. The second point is the Atlantic Alliance. Today we can have different ideas about President Trump and the current American administration: we certainly have them and I first have very different ideas from the current American administration. But remember, ladies and gentlemen, that our great old people in the first Republic have taught us that administrations change, but countries remain. Governments change, but friendships between states are choices that we can call genetics, and for us the Atlantic Alliance and the West are words that still have value, of which we cannot depress them. My model cannot become the Chinese one or the Russian one: I say it with great frankness. I'm happy with the help, I want to be and I'm friends with Russians and Chinese, but our history, identity, culture and democracy are something else. And great personalities of the Republic like Emilio Colombo have shown and taught us this. Finally, I would like to talk about Europe. The Genscher-Colombo act that has been recalled was one of the most important acts of Italian protagonism in the European context. Colleagues, we can complain; I tell my friends - I want to use this term - of the League and of the Brothers of Italy who may sometimes have different visions of Europe. We do not like this Europe - perhaps you are right - but without Europe there will be no salvation for Italy and without Europe we will have no chance of facing a crisis greater than ourselves. [[Applause from the PD, IV-PSI and Senator Bressa groups.]] If there were not the European Central Bank that even in the last few hours buys low Italian government bonds with low hands, we would not be in a position to face this crisis with some serenity. Emilio Colombo taught us these things. His is not a lesson to be liquidated or put in moldy history books, with the great awareness that history has taught us things we must never forget. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u12	SACCONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank you especially for giving us today the opportunity to commemorate an Italian politician. Usually, when this action is taken, one tends to tell the biography of a Member of Parliament, his parliamentary acts or his political activity. I want to start from his own political activity within the party of Christian Democracy. Emilio Colombo was a leader and a militant of that party that he defined, when he was appointed President of the Council, as a hinge party. In his eyes this definition indicated above all a party capable of uniting the country with respect to the two extremes to the left and right of that period. However, Mr President, let me remind you of Emilio Colombo during the years of his formation, what is lacking in politics today, we do not improvise politicians. He was formed in Catholic Action, a bulwark of so much ruling class that then became the ruling class of the Italian Republic. The stage of Camaldoli, where the code is born, the concept of a political community, is important in his life, where the human person is at the heart of social and political commitment. This is what his friend Giulio Alfano defines politics as a social commitment. This was the formation of Emilio Colombo, nothing was improvised and that formation sketched his entire political life, not only the domestic one, as was recalled by Presidents Casini and Pittella. I would just like to remind you that the special law for the displacement of the Sassi in Matera testified to the ability of a politician to give concreteness to those values: thanks to that measure 14,000 of his fellow citizens had a home, showing - as President Pittella said well - his indissoluble bond with Basilicata. I would also like to recall the fundamental commitment to foreign policy and I would like to start from the capacity of an authoritative Italian politician, a statesman, who looks to future generations, demonstrated - for example - in the Luxembourg compromise, when French President Charles de Gaulle announced his intention to leave the newly-born European Community. Yet Emilio Colombo's mediation capacity in that assembly brought France back to the European Community. I would also like to recall - as President Casini has said well - the European act which has been completed together with Genscher, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Republic of Germany, in which the foundations of the future European Union are laid, the incomplete one, which still does not fulfil the intentions of its founding fathers. But that was Italy that counted in the international context, because it was reliable and credible and was above all able to build bridges, not to close in a regionalism that still appears in our eyes completely anachronistic. That is the vision of an Italy that could challenge the time in which we lived, but above all the future time in a wider context. And, today, if we have to benefit from the many teachings of Emilio Colombo, it is in understanding that it is a great utopia to think of being able to face global challenges with an anachronistic regionalism. That is Italy that unfortunately we can no longer have, because today we must have a bigger dream. Only with Europe - whether we like it or not - can we meet global challenges. Everything else is utopia or propaganda, which will not bring Italy back to be a credible and reliable country. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that I have attended President Colombo in the last few years of his life, but I have not had the opportunity to live his political life, but I have read a lot about it. He is united by a common thread to that ruling class of Christian Democrats, which was characterized by prudence, which someone, a little distracted, confuses with immobilism. Absolutely not: that was the prudence of intelligence, of the ability to build bridges, especially with dialogue. I understand that it is more difficult, but it is certainly the only horizon before us. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, PD, IV-PSI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u15	MARGIOTTA, State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport. Mr President, I would like to thank you for giving me this opportunity and, above all, for wishing to have this sitting of particular importance, particularly exciting for me, given the long tradition I had with Mr Colombo. All the speeches that have been made so far - yours, Mr President, for which I thank you once again, but also those of Senators Casini, Pittella and Saccone - have outlined many truths about a beautiful personality. I would just like to add a reminder that I believe is significant in this House. President Casini recalled the strong bond Columbus had with the young people: we called ourselves the Youth Movement of the DC, within which I began to make politics and my teacher was Emilio Colombo; we called ourselves "Columbians" and someone called us "Columbians." When we attended the first national meetings, for us, from our land, the fact of telling ourselves friends of Columbus immediately deserved some esteem and some consideration. In fact, he was greatly admired and appreciated in the context of the Party and in the national and international context. I could tell many episodes, but President Casini is right: for us young people going to political training courses or going to his house to talk about politics meant talking to a person who had met Bush or Margaret Thatcher or the Pope the day before and who told us, with the amiability of a friend, the things they had said. This was the way to do politics and form. I should like to conclude, Mr President, with a memory that seems to me significant at this time in a certain sense of anti-parliamentaryism and anti-politics: President Colombo chaired the first sitting as an elderly senator (he was 93 years old) in 2013. And he presided over that sitting with an incomparable spirit, with a sense of the institutions and the state, and also with the ability - someone will remember some of his jokes - to moderate some boiling spirit. He later held his last speech here - and that is what I would like to remind him of. He was very little involved in the parliamentary debate, but at the European Councils he was very keen - precisely because of the Europeanism he mentioned earlier - to make his own contribution. On that occasion he began to speak with the exhausting incessance of those who are ninety-three years old, with his notebook of notes. At a certain point - we are always hasty in the parliamentary classrooms - the time allotted to the Presidency began to sound; generally, when this happens, all colleagues are happy, because they can't wait for the next speech. Then, on the other hand, there was a motorbike all over the House to tell the President to let him speak. My colleagues wanted us to listen to the last words - that was his last speech in Parliament - of a person who still had so much to say, especially on certain issues. I remember this page well because it is a warning to all of us to listen more, to give more importance to what we say, to give more importance to the role we play and to the way we do it. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u18	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, with a certain emotion I am going to recall Adriana Pasquali, Senator of the Bolzano College. I am - as you know - Senator of Trento, of the Trentino family, but I was born and raised in Bolzano. I was born and raised admiring someone like Adriana Pasquali. Adriana is a person who has had in her life first of all a professional characterization. She was one of the most important lawyers in the Bozen forum. She graduated early in the classical high school in Bolzano at the age of seventeen; at the age of twenty-one she graduated in law; at the age of twenty-three she became legal prosecutor and was the first and youngest cassationist in the province of Bolzano. He became the founder and president of the Criminal Chambers of Bolzano, president of the Order of Lawyers of Bolzano, truly representing for all South Tyrolean citizenship a reference point in his life, for his profession. Adriana was, however, not only a great lawyer, she was not only a great example for her work and her professional commitment, but she was also a person who had always been close to politics, first as a simple elector, as a person who was committed to supporting the Italian right in South Tyrol and then, in the legislature that went from 1996 to 2001, she was a senator. It was the one who preceded me representing the boarding school of Bolzano in the Senate of the Republic. What is right to remember as a Corregional, as a Bolzanine of birth - as I have already said - is that Adriana Pasquali was the landmark, flag and icon of Italianity in South Tyrol. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Ruta]] Adriana Pasquali represented for the Italians of South Tyrol, together with the complacent brothers Andrea and Pietro Mitolo, that element of certainty and security that combined loyalty to fairness and respect for all. Even the political opponents, even the German community of South Tyrol, on opposite fronts, recognized to Adriana Pasquali the seriousness and correctness that have always been part of the identity of the Italian right. Adriana Pasquali always knew how to have the word at the right time, always knew how to give answers even in the most difficult moments that the Italian community of South Tyrol lived. We remember the 1960s; we remember the period of bombs; we remember those periods in which many times Italians felt foreign at home. We remember those moments in which the autonomy of the two autonomous Provinces of Trento and Bolzano was not experienced in the same way by the Italian and German communities. We remember those periods, that is, in which autonomy was seen not as a moment of social emancipation of the territories, not as a moment of growth of the local institutions, but rather as a system that created serial citizens and serial citizens b. Here in that historical phase, in that phase that was also lead, Adriana Pasquali knew how to infuse certainties and tranquility; she knew how to infuse serenity because the political confrontation had to remain contained within the parliamentary dialectic and local political dialectic. I shall conclude, Mr President, but allow me one more minute to recall the figure of Adriana Pasquali as an icon of women's emancipation. She, as recalled, was a lawyer who, since the post-war period, knew how to assert himself in a typically masculine world, demonstrating that they do not serve the barriers, they do not serve the fences, but that only the merit of a woman can compete with the man. She established herself and became president of the lawyers of the criminal chambers as a woman, and became so in the last century. I would like to remind you of the words of the person who joined you in the House of Deputies in his parliamentary experience, namely former Minister Frattini, who last week - you were missing exactly seven days ago, at the age of ninety-one years - said: I have never seen in my career a person so tied to his territory and voters; he was an Italian of one piece, he loved his community of reference. It was part of a strict right, a right without proclamations or screaming words. She had grown up alongside a generation of people like Peter and Andrea Mitolo; they could be challenged about her ideas, but not about ethics and human behavior. It is for this reason, for its ways and for its straightness, that it was also appreciated by its opponents. I met her from a young age, as a child, and with the words of former Minister Frattini I want to share with you, with the Senate Assembly and with all the Italians, including those of Trentino-Alto Adige, the valiant historical figure of Adriana Pasquali. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u19	To commemorate Senator Pasquali, I would like to observe a minute's silence. [[The President and the Assembly stand and observe a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u20	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable until 7 May. This afternoon the joint discussion of the 2020 Economic and Finance Document and the annexed report on the deviation from the structural policy objective will take place, at the end of which the Government, when replying, will deliver its opinion on the motions for resolutions submitted to the documents. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government on the DEF should be tabled within half an hour after the opinion has been delivered. The explanations of vote, on television, will take place at tomorrow's sitting, starting at 9.30 a.m. It will then proceed to the vote, by an absolute majority, of the resolutions, to the resolution on the deviation, in accordance with the order of presentation, and then, pursuant to Rule 125- bis, paragraph 4 of the Rules of Procedure, to the vote of the resolution accepted by the Government on the DEF and related amendments. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting also includes, at 12.30 a.m., a direct television broadcast by the President of the Council of Ministers on government initiatives for the resumption of economic activities. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. Tuesday, May 5, at 16.30, the Assembly will meet for communication, pursuant to Article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, of the presentation of a bill of conversion of decree-law announced by the Government. The agenda of the session of Wednesday 6 p.m. provides, from 9.30 a.m. and until its conclusion, the discussion of the decree-law on the organization and conduct of the Olympic Games Milan Cortina 2026 and at 16 a.m. an information, with direct television transmission, of the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Tourism on the initiatives of the Ministry to combat the Covid-19. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. On Thursday 7 May, at 9.30 a.m., the question time will be held with the presence of the Ministers for Economic Development, Labour and Justice. The Conference of Leaders will be convened at the end of this meeting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u21	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 7 May 2020: [[Wednesday 29 April h. 15 - Joint debate of the Doc. LVII, n. 3 - Document of Economy and Finance 2020 and the annexed Report to the Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243 (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) * - Statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the initiatives of the Government for the resumption of economic activities (Thursday 30, 12.30) Thursday 30 " h. 9.30 * The motions for resolutions to document LVII, n. 3 (Document of Economy and Finance 2020) and the annexed Report to the Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243, must be submitted before the conclusion of the discussion. Amendments to the resolution adopted by the Government on the 2020 Economic and Financial Document will have to be tabled within half an hour of the opinion being delivered.]] [[Tuesday, May 5, h. 16,30 - Communications, pursuant to article 77, second paragraph, of the Constitution, of the presentation of bill of conversion of decree-law Wednesday 6 " h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n. 1777 - Decree-Law n. 16, Organization and conduct of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Milan Cortina 2026 (approved by the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 12 May) - Information of the Minister of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism on the initiatives of competence of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism to counter the Covid-19 (Wednesday 6, 16) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to article 151- bis of the Regulation (Thursday 7, 9.30) Thursday 7 " h. 9,30 h.]] Amendments to bill No 1777 (Decree-Law No 16, Organization and conduct of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Milan Cortina 2026) should be tabled by 10 a.m. on Thursday 30 April. Time distribution for discussion of the Doc. LVII, No 3 (Document of Economy and Finance 2020) and the annexed Report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 4 hours and 50 minutes, of which: M5S 50' FI-BP 50' L-SP-PSd'Az 56' PD 30' Mixed 26' FdI 30' IV-PSI 20' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] The timing breakdown shall take into account specific requests from the Groups. Time distribution for discussion of bill No 1777 (Decree-Law No 16, Organization and conduct of the Olympic and Paralympic Games Milan Cortina 2026) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteur 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h 4' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 48' PD 35' Mixed 29' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u22	The next item is the joint debate on document LVII, No 3, and the attached report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012. The rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Marco, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Pellegrini Marco.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, at exceptional times the policy response can only be exceptional. This is therefore the characteristic of the DEF that we are debating at this time in Parliament, because we are faced with a sudden, unpredictable and in some respects still indecipherable. So, in the face of the coronavirus pandemic, the government is putting every effort into mitigating the social and economic effects of the pandemic. The projections of this historic effort - we can define it this way - are precisely outlined within the DEF. Due to the rapid evolution of the economic framework resulting from the spread of the Covid-19 epidemic at national and European level, but also of course worldwide, the 2020 DEF has a more essential and limited content than in previous years. In particular, in line with other European countries, the forecast scenarios for public finance are limited to the period 2020-2021 (so not to the three-year period) and the trend framework alone, while the policy framework and the presentation of the National Reform Programme are postponed to a later stage, when there will be less uncertainty. In view of the drop in production and consumption already recorded and the difficult short-term prospects, the DEF estimates a fall in real GDP in 2020 by 8 percentage points and for 2021 a real recovery of 4.7% is expected. The forecast results in a fall in GDP of more than 15% in the first half of the year and a subsequent rebound in the second half of the year on the basis of the assumptions that the closure measures of non-essential production sectors and social distancing measures will be mitigated from May onwards and that the economic impact of the epidemic will be completely exhausted in the first quarter of 2021. Income and employment support measures, already adopted at the closing date of the forecast, are included in the scenario under current legislation, but the budgetary framework of this document also indicates the effects of the next measures. With the so-called Italian care decree, I would like to remind you, interventions of EUR 20 billion have been put in place, representing about 1.2% of GDP in terms of impact on the net debt of the administrations, and it is equal to about 25 billion new resources. The Italian Decree-Law on care has intervened along four main lines: first, it has foreseen a further increase of the resources available to the health system to ensure assistance to people affected by the disease and to enhance the prevention and mitigation of the containment of the epidemic itself. Secondly, it contains measures to protect income and labour by extending existing social shock absorbers such as the ordinary earnings supplement fund, the wage supplement fund and the income supplement fund by way of derogation to all companies forced to limit or stop their activity due to the pandemic and by suspending dismissals for economic reasons for the duration of the emergency period. Moreover, third, it provides for support for the liquidity of businesses and households, postponing tax deadlines for tax and contribution charges and introducing the obligation to maintain banks' credit lines for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as strengthening the central SME guarantee fund and providing public guarantees on exposures assumed by the Cassa depositi e prestiti in favor of banks that provide finance to companies affected by the emergency. Finally, fourth, sectoral aid is provided for the sectors most affected by the pandemic. Overall, adding the moratorium on credit and new guarantees, the Italian care protects or guarantees an estimated volume of credit in 350 billion euros. However, the need to further strengthen credit payments to the economy was immediately felt and this led to the definition of the liquidity decree at the beginning of April. The latter produced, in particular, the allocation of State guarantees to the company SACE, the Cassa depositi group and loans, for a total of 400 billion euros, half of which is dedicated to the credit to the companies and the remainder to the credit to the exports. A further strengthening of the central guarantee fund is also envisaged with the introduction of a 100% guarantee for loans of up to EUR 25,000. The liquidity decree also contains measures to accelerate public administration payments to its suppliers and the extension of the so-called golden power, i.e. the instrument that allows the State to authorise in advance corporate transactions in companies operating in strategic sectors for the country system such as credit, insurance, water and energy, in order to block any hostile climbs. The next decree-law will resume the interventions of the Italian care, strengthening them, strengthening them and extending them over time, in order to respond to the needs of the next phase of gradual reopening of the productive activities. In particular, in addition to measures to support work, inclusion and income and those for health, safety and territorial authorities, there will be significant interventions for the liquidity and capitalization of enterprises, for support to the productive sectors most affected by the emergency and for investment and innovation. This DEF also underlines that in the trend forecast for 2021 the abolition of the safeguard clauses, which represented a vulnus in every budget law and which we have been carrying since 2011. Finally, we are able to serve the safeguard clauses relating to VAT and excise duties. In relation to the risk that the measures of containment of the productive activity and of social distancing extend beyond the expected, in view of the uncertainty, to which I referred earlier, about the resumption of the activities in the main Countries with which Italy maintains commercial relations, the DEF also considers an alternative scenario, in which the recovery would be more gradual and would not be thinned until the second quarter of 2021. This is also required by the guidelines agreed at European level that demand the presentation of alternative scenarios in which the development and duration of the epidemic would be more unfavourable, causing a greater contraction of GDP in 2020 (in this case it would be expected to -10.6 percent) and a weaker recovery in 2021 (in this case, the alternative and less favourable recovery, the recovery in 2021 would be 2.3% of GDP), as well as a further increase in public finance. On the fiscal balances of 2020, as mentioned above, will also affect the forthcoming so-called April decree, to which is linked the new relationship with which the Government has requested permission to Parliament to resort to greater indebtedness of 55 billion euros in 2020. In view of the nature of the planned interventions, the expected effect on government needs is €65 billion in 2020 and €25 billion in 2021, while it is equal to net debt in each of the following years. On the net balance to be financed from the State budget, in terms of competence and cash, the effects amount to 155 billion in 2020 and 25 billion in 2021 and are equal to those indicated in terms of net debt of the general government in each of the following years. The new level of government net debt, taking into account the financial impact of the next Decree-Law, with urgent measures for economic recovery, is therefore set at 10.4% of GDP in 2020 and 5.7% of GDP in 2021. As for the level of government debt, this is expected to be 155.7% of GDP in 2020 and 152.7% in 2021. In this regard, however, the report certifies the sustainability of Italy's public debt, whose ratio to GDP will be brought back to the euro area average also on the basis of the relaunch of public and private investment, thanks also to a simplification of administrative procedures. I'm gonna finish. It's a difficult time for the country. The Government and Parliament are committed, without jeopardising any effort, to laying down the best possible protection for our workers, our families and our businesses. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u24	Minority speakers, Senators Damiani and Ferrero, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u25	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Damiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u26	Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, it is undoubtedly the exceptionality of the moment that we are all living, not only the Italians, but all the citizens of the world. As I said, there is no doubt about this. The period of great economic stress that we are all experiencing in our country has no precedent, especially looking at the last seventy years of Italian history. It is therefore a difficult and particular moment, which today surely imposes important choices to be made with significant capacity for organization, programming, far-sightedness and political vision, everything that we do not find in this Government today. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Today we do not find this vision of a country in this Government to face a epochal challenge.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u27	Colleagues, please, I invite you to respect and maintain the distance.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u28	Mr Damiani, minority rapporteur. I will not dwell so much on the numbers of gross domestic product, but I will look a bit at the analysis of the Economic and Financial Document, as presented, also starting from the latest financial maneuvers that the Government has adopted, which - as we said - were already faced with a well-established economic crisis. In fact, just remember that our GDP growth in 2019 was the lowest in Europe (just 0.3%). Therefore, the financial maneuvers that were to be launched at the time (that's why we have to look at the economic picture that we already had) were - and we have already said it on several occasions as opposition and as Forza Italia - surely also wrong. So, the economy already marked the pace in 2019. At the time, economic maneuvers were certainly more advantageous. Instead, what did this government do in those moments a few months ago? It has increased, albeit slightly, by 0.2 per cent, taxation, going to take away resources from Italian families and businesses. Moreover, it has confirmed some projects that have nothing to do with the development of our country, which are only current spending projects of the moment. These are projects that we consider only in a small way, that is, the welfare policies that this Government has put in place in recent years, going to subtract resources from the development of our country. We would have had, this year, EUR 12 billion more if these EUR 12 billion had not been used, with choices that you have made - you have also assumed this responsibility - for welfare policies. Therefore, President Conte, who, in fact, had once defined himself as the lawyer of the people, became and, in my opinion, also proclaimed himself, the notary of the unhappy decrease. This, therefore, is the situation in which we are facing the DEF today. Our opinion on the current document of economy and finance is an absolutely negative opinion because, precisely, it has no vision of the country. Then, once again, we have manifested, in all ways and in all senses, our desire to be at the side of the Country, of Italy and, therefore, to collaborate with our proposals, but also on this you have not considered in any way what the oppositions have brought to your knowledge. It is therefore a DEF that we do not think is useful at all, because it does not have an overall picture, it does not tackle and it does not look at development, it does not present a National Reform Programme, as it should have been written. The other negative response we make is that it presents a report on the second part of 2020, 2021 and then presents a debt report until 2032. You are in debt to our children and grandchildren up to 2032: 450 billion euros of debt that you discharge for two other legislation. That is why this document is not at all shared with all the political forces in this Parliament. I made a calculation of this kind: this DEF, will certainly bring, for every Italian child who is born, to about 45,000 euros of debt that the child will carry on the shoulders. It is a war, we have said for a long time: this is a war, which must certainly be fought with the instruments of a war. Instead, at this moment you have brought to the country many small measures that, put together, are not giving today the scope of fire of the measures that were to be there to face an invisible war, yes, but a war at the same time. The many small measures you have put on the field do not reach what is the real country, which, in these hours and in these moments, is complaining in all its forms. The categories, the citizens, the families, the employees who are not yet receiving the Social Security Fund are complaining. It is estimated, we all know, that the debt will rise to 163 percent and that we will have a deficit of about 11.2 percent. In the DEF, how do we deal with this crisis today? How do we deal with these negative numbers? In your case, the only two instruments to implement (and it is written, you find them in the written reports within the DEF itself) are the fight against evasion and environmental taxation. Therefore, you continue to act, mistakenly, on taxation: you confirm environmental taxes, which, at this moment, must be abolished in order to develop, in particular, productive activities and the fight against evasion. But if today small and very small entrepreneurs, VAT matches and artisans, cannot and cannot, at this moment, pay our taxes, what are we looking for? We shut them down at this time of emergency. These are measures that we absolutely do not share as a strategy; instead, you continue and persevere. So that's where the wrong choices are. We have given you suggestions and we repeat it in this House. Starting at the end of my speech, I would like to remind you only of some proposals that we have made to you, that we have submitted to you and will continue to do so, because, as we said, we want to be at the side of the country and we want to contribute to the rebirth, today important, of our country. It is certainly important to take measures, even in the next decree-laws that will shortly be launched by the Government, in support of businesses, activities and families but lost. We have been telling you this for weeks: we need non-refundable support and not the debt of families or businesses, as you have done with loans. We must use debt today: it is good to in debt our children for the future, but for investment measures and not for current spending measures or for welfare policies. Every form of taxation must be avoided: keep your assets in your pockets; do not take them to citizens and Italians. Don't say it at all: the heritage of Italian citizens must not be touched at all. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] We need to reduce the tax burden; we need to provide for the reopening of all construction sites; we need to pay public administration debts to professionals and businesses. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] These are the programmes that we have offered you and that we are still proposing to the majority and the government here today, despite your attitude towards us. We need a major strategic plan for the Mezzogiorno of Italy, which is based precisely on the use and reprogramming of Community funds made available by the European Commission. If, as Minister Gualtieri says, the Government has the will to make reforms, reforms are made in and with the whole of Parliament. We have our proposals and we give them to the Italians because we want to help to get out of this serious economic situation. Our availability is all there, but - alas - this time on the document of economy and finance you have wrong way and you have wrong path. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u29	Before I pass the floor to the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrero, I would like to remind everyone that we respect the minimum safety rules that exist in order to prevent any gathering in this House. Our Senators Quaestors have worked hard to give way to everyone, but following minimum safety rules concerning distances. I would therefore ask you not to create assemblies. I understand that there is a need to speak, but it is not possible. Thanksgiving to heaven, here in the Senate there are no cases precisely because until today we have all respected these measures, with a great sense of responsibility. I would ask you to do so again and not to lower your guard because this is not the time. Thank you all for your cooperation. [[Comments of Senator Bernini]] Senator Bernini, I just said that.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u31	For what? BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Personally. President, I do not understand why you call me back. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I talked about gatherings. I had to call you several times before, like other colleagues. The distances weren't there. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). I didn't move. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She didn't move, but close to her was a group. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). President, these sessions are recorded. A nominal call has a value and I repeat that I didn't move. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No one said she moved; I said that there was an assembly around her. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Before I'm called back, I think the situation needs to be properly evaluated.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u32	Be patient: there was an assembly near her and I invited the others to go away from her. I didn't say you had to move. I said the others had to get away from his place, just as I told other exponents, such as Senator De Petris. I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrero.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I reserve the right to finish my speech in reply, because, after listening to all the hearings and all the social partners, I would like to listen to the speeches of my colleagues and then make a brief reply. The present document, given the uncertainty linked to the emerging situation, presents economic and financial forecasts that develop over a two-year period and lacks the National Reform Programme necessary to identify the structural interventions and reforms that the Government intends to carry out. The annex to the DEF requires the authorisation to use debt of 3.3% of GDP for the year 2020 and is therefore equal to 55 billion euros, but the delay with which they are finding concrete application of the measures already approved, but above all with which they are preparing new and more effective instruments to face the crisis, also in European context, poses a concrete risk for the survival of entire economic and productive sectors. The absence of the National Reform Programme prevents an effective and complete evaluation of the urgent measures of economic recovery that the Government declares to want to undertake, remaining to date mere declarations of intent. The same prediction of the sterilization of the safeguard clauses, laid down by the Budget Act 2020, and the consideration of the harmfulness of restrictive fiscal policy measures are not linked in the document, instead, with the aim of increasing the tax burden to 42.5 per cent of GDP in 2020 and 43.3 per cent in 2021 (I therefore refer to what Senator Damiani said about the tax pressure). Similarly, the contours of the debt reduction strategy do not appear to be clearly defined, which is based on the annual holding and for the next ten years of a primary surplus budget, but above all on the fight against tax evasion, environmental taxation and on the reform of the tax system based on simplification and fairness. With specific reference to the financial effects of the next decree-law announced by the Government, the difference between its impact in terms of deficit (€55 billion) and net balance to be financed (€155 billion). After the physiological mismatch between the two balances, this significant difference seems to be able to be traced back to the choice of accounting - only to the net balance to be financed and not also to the net debt for 2020 - the billions necessary to present the State's counter-guarantees to the guarantees of SACE SpA provided by Decree-Law No 23 of 8 April, considered for practices guarantees not standardised under the European Accounting Regulation. The mechanism built by the aforementioned decree-law, in particular Article 1, appears, however, to be completely comparable - with regard to standardisation of the percentages and procedures for granting guarantees - to that proper of the standardised guarantees of the SME central fund, and as such accounting for net debt. This difference in accounting would result in greater net borrowing for 2020, but under general escape clause, allowing the deficit in the coming years to be alleviated in which it will be necessary to address return strategies on the path of approach to the medium-term objective of public finance. It would therefore be necessary to revise the accounting of the State guarantees provided for in Decree-Law No 23 while increasing the debt for 2020. Parliament should be presented with a comprehensive, structured, concrete plan to support and relaunch the national economic system, focusing on administrative simplification, reducing tax burdens, technological innovation and industrial development. Obviously, a change of pace would be necessary, given the inconsistent and confused results of the previous measures, with fast and effective measures, because Italy can really no longer wait. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u34	I remember that, pursuant to article 6, paragraph 3, of law n. 243 of 2012, the resolution by which each Chamber authorizes the updating of the return plan is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. Therefore, the examination of the document will end with the approval of two separate acts of direction: the first, relating to the report referred to in article 6, paragraph 5, of Law No 243 of 2012, to be voted by an absolute majority; the second, relating to the Document of Economy and Finance, to be voted by a simple majority. Motions for resolutions to both documents will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u35	Mr President of the Senate, ladies and gentlemen of the senators, lords of the government, Rome is very large and very far from here, he wrote in his novel "Tibi e Tascia" our great Calabrian writer Saverio Strati. Before entering the heart of my speech, however, allow me to address my thoughts to those who, because of the Covid-19 in recent weeks, have lost their lives, to those who have struggled and continue to fight in the front line, to health workers, doctors, nurses, the Forces of Order all. We have experienced moments of intense tragedy. The images of the sad parade of the coffins brought by military trucks in the night of Bergamo have tormented the hearts of the Italians; we will always keep them in our hearts, as a warning to imperishable memory. The emergency that we are still experiencing has had its dramatic junction on the evening of 8 March in the South, when, due to the unforgivable circulation of the drafts of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, a real exodus has unleashed towards the Mezzogiorno, which has actually caused the spread of coronavirus in the Mezzogiorno of Italy. That March 8 was our September 8th: an entire country, due to a sudden leak of news, was panicked and found confused and frightened. The images of the northern stations teeming with people, of many people fleeing to the South remain uncancellable. We're still paying for that nasty night. This brings me back to my mind the quote of Saverio Strati: "Roma is very large and very far from here." This literary image has a prophetic taste and tells better than any other the ancient and painful distance that our people feel. This is the situation that has become apparent, even more so in recent weeks, in the relations between the Government and the mayors, especially those of the South. The mayors, heroes too often forced to fight alone, with bare hands, out of the trench, on the battlefield, against a powerful but invisible enemy, who sows death, without the help of the State; indeed, we felt it far away. Entering into the merits of government measures, the 55 billion deviation foreseen in the DEF represents an important step to address the crisis related to the emergency Covid-19. While measures not to leave anyone behind represent only a first step, on the other hand I cannot fail to point out the need to pay attention to the situation of the municipalities, particularly the small ones. The mayors in these weeks have done extraordinary work and have been, 24 hours a day, the first point of reference of the citizens, welcoming and always trying to give a concrete answer to the needs, even the most disparate, of each individual person. But we need more resources and that is why we must support the call of the ANCI, which calls for EUR 5 billion to be allocated to the municipalities. The EUR 3 and a half billion fund provided by Minister Gualtieri is not enough to ensure the proper functioning of the municipalities, which are in real danger of failure. It would then be the failure of an entire system, aimed at providing essential services to citizens: I am thinking of transport, social services, waste collection, all the services that are essential to tackling everyday life, the minimum that is vital. We cannot waste time, because these days the municipal coffers have basically no revenue and cannot register them. That's why it would be criminal to give the mayors less than they ask. Let us realize that it is at stake the holding of the entire system, which has in the municipalities the first foundations and the first outpost of the State. The social consequences of a collapse would be unimaginable, especially in the Southern regions. In this sense another fundamental junction concerns the possibility of controlling the territory capillatively. This would require a greater and more constant presence of the Forces of Order. The last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers (DPCM) gives the mayors the burden of control on the territory, but it is not understood by which forces. The mayors at this time are like the generals, who go to war with valiant troops, but scattered, in some cases nonexistent. In these weeks the Forces of the Order have done extraordinary work, but above all in the South there is the urgent need to hire urban vigilantes, to strengthen the staff, who in some municipalities do not have only one municipal police officer. There are not a few cases in which the mayors themselves and the administrators have improvised vigilantly, to carry out the checks and fill the existing void, a huge vacuum, as is the huge vacuum on the guidelines to face phase 2. Faced with this decisive phase for the resumption of the territories, the mayors have been reduced to sailors forced to navigate on sight, without compass and with the bitter prospect of a disastrous drift. The last decree of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers downloads everything on the first citizens, but does not really tell them what to do. Matteo Renzi, the subject of fierce attacks, was the first to focus his attention on restarting in unsuspecting times. We had to listen to him, then, about the need to plan for subsequent steps to return to normality. Now, lately, everyone hastens to provide recipes and indications, but in the face of certain delays, for some sectors, particularly for tourism, it is already too late. Time's already up. For this sector, the engine of the economy of many parts of the country, including the one from which I come, we need clear and immediate rules on how and when to leave, on when to reopen the tourist activities. The mayors are confronted daily with the anxieties and demands of the operators, who in the imminence of the summer season are afraid of seeing years of work and sacrifice frustrate. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Magorno, please, I invite you to conclude. MAGORNO (IV-PSI). I would ask you for an extra minute, Mr President. Again with regard to tourism, I cannot fail to raise the question of the Municipal Solidarity Fund, established by Article 1 of Law No 228 of 2012. It is a leap, which must be removed or at least suspended by 2020. As regards, in particular, the necessary measures, I would like to point out the following: the reduction of the Fund's doubtful claims due, from 95% to 50%; the total loss-free recovery of the dry losses resulting from the non-reimbursement of municipal taxes and minor taxes; the increase in the anticipation of the treasury to seven twelfths and the recognition of a contribution to cover the greater interests; the suspension of the instalments for the repayment of liquidity advances resulting from the contributions given to the Municipalities in failure or which have exploited, for example, Decree-Law No 35 of 2013; the acceleration of agreements with banks that overcome the bureaucratic problems in place, which are preventing the suspension of mortgage payments against the creditors of the institution; the adoption of more streamlined rules for the granting and management of all public assets. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Please conclude, Senator Magorno. Otherwise, you can also hand over the written text of your speech, which can be reproduced in full in the Minutes of today's sitting. MAGORNO (IV-PSI). For all these things, which I wanted to say, we must give more resources to build a better future, which rethinks its development, giving priority to respect for the people and the environment around us. Allow me to be biased. I come from a territory, the Alto Tirreno Cosentino, which shines for beauty, in which unparalleled seascapes are not far from equally beautiful and hospitable hills and still a little further - and I conclude - you can reach the incredible mountain scenery of Pollino. The beauty from us is at home, but in this last period - we have all noticed, you will have seen it all that you come from all over Italy - nature seems to have awakened, has a different light and has returned to shine. Nature is sending us a clear message: it asks us for more attention and love for when everything returns to normal. Rethinking the future means giving resources to the territories, without forgetting the urgency of today; we also need an ecology of relationships, which imposes respect for those who have been left alone for too long [[The microphone automatically switches off]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u36	Senator, it's ten minutes. She had six. I would like to point this out, because obviously the extra time I have to take away from your colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u37	MAGORNO (IV-PSI). In conclusion, more than anything else we need respect and I would like this word to sound loud in this House today when we talk about the mayors and our regions of the Mezzogiorno. "I was born to eradicate three extreme evils: tyranny, sophistry and hypocrisy," wrote Thomas Campanella. We do not want and cannot be once again victims of hypocrisy and ignorance. Let's not abandon the mayors, let's not abandon the South. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u38	I regret to interrupt the speeches, but if there is a six-minute request from your Group and you are piercing for four out of six (you spoke for ten minutes), I can only call you back in the sense of inviting you to conclude. If you want to talk ten minutes, please agree with your Group so that the time available to others is a little better. Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u39	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, there are few things that are clear in this document and I summarize them in three figures: GDP, which is destined to be reduced even in a rather conspicuous way, unemployment, which is destined to increase in a fairly substantial way, and public debt, which has already been announced to be exponentially growing. These are the three negative data on which the Document focuses, from which it must necessarily start. At this point we would expect deductions consistent with these premises; that is, that the Government was able to select few strategic objectives capable of activating virtuous processes of substantial change in the performance of our National Health Service. There is no doubt that the prevailing reason for this so negative diagnosis is largely due to the epidemic we are experiencing at this time and that it has not yet ended, even if it is heading towards the famous phase 2. Conversely, when we go to read the guidelines that the Government suggests through this Document, we realize that for the umpteenth time we are faced with a utopian design in which everything is possible and the opposite of everything, so we make clear and explicit reference to the need to pay far more qualified and qualifying attention to what many legislators call the medicine of the territory. We are told that a great deal of attention will be paid to the family and I imagine that when we connect the theme of the family to that of health we refer quite explicitly to that taken care of the elderly, the people with disabilities, the people who have a rare disease that affects the cardiorespiratory system, for which we have seen zero attention that there was in the phase that has just ended. A very high price has been paid in terms of death; it is said that only to death there is no remedy and in this case the data of the dead people clearly says that it is proportional to an overall lack of attention to the health model. We have forgotten that from a demographic point of view our country is a reversed pyramid and that therefore at the summit the most represented category is that of the elderly, who go beyond that level of the eighty-four to eighty-five years that at this moment are considered the average age; when we are faced with data of this type, we know that this category is not paid attention. I am very pleased that there are basic pediatricians, who have the highest esteem and the highest confidence on my part, but at the moment we feel urgent the need for basic geriatrics and family geriatrics, because the category that we must take care of and protect is that of the elderly and, in particular, of the elderly with other pathologies, for which specific skills are required. If these people had remained well looked after in their homes we probably would not have had those mortality indicators that are still a very serious vulnus to the country, to an entire generation that has gone away, to everything we could and should have done. Of course, however, to this end an investment must be made towards the family, especially with regard to the extraordinary figure that is the family care giver, to which we have devoted attention in draft laws that we have never brought to the Assembly. I want to conclude by stressing that among other aspects that this DEF addresses there are important issues, such as that of university and research, that I translate into scholarships for residents, because the country needs specialists: we would have checked this epidemic if we had had the specialists, not hiring the newly graduated doctors. But in order to get specialists, we need scholarships for specialization schools and, beyond the talk, we ask for this. The other topic is research: we have cut everything down in recent years, strategic objectives, many times preached and never practiced. In search, we've taken out lifeblood. Therefore, I believe that this Government should have had the correctness of consistency and the clarity of precise, concrete and measurable objectives, which there has not been. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u40	Senator Calandrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u41	Mr President, I am speaking at this moment, at a delicate stage in the country's life for what has happened in these two months. This is a very severe recession, but we, the Brothers of Italy, cannot fail to make considerations and assessments. In fact, we see that there is no political vision on the part of this Government regarding the choices made so far. I refer, in particular, to some notes I took after the last words of the Deputy Minister, whom I thank: he arrived late but there is and can listen, because, as you can see, the benches of the Government are desolately empty. The Deputy Minister concluded his interventions in the Commission by giving us the vision of this document of economy and finance in three fundamental points: in the first point he told us that this is a transitional DEF, for what has happened and is happening at this stage, and that a fundamental part is missing, namely the national reform plan. The second point on which he made assessments was that public finances are being weighed down significantly: he spoke of 10% of the deficit. The third point, which is the only thing that we of Brothers of Italy share and that I have not heard anyone before me mention, is the elimination at the root and in a definitive way, as you said, of the safeguard clauses on VAT, which will give us the chance at least to hope for a better future. These rules, in fact, have unfortunately weighed heavily in the preparation of the latest budgetary laws. To define the current Economic and Financial Document, I would like to repeat your closing words, Mr Deputy Minister. Another positive aspect, which does not concern the national government, was given to us by the European Commission (also in this case, the only important act done in this damn economic and health crisis), when it decided to suspend the safeguard clauses relating to the Stability Pact. This will clearly mean that the government, as they say in jargon, will be able to pump resources and put them in the system of national states as long as this serves the national governments. I hope that these resources, this loosening of the Stability Pact can in some way serve the Italian municipalities, our 8,000 mayors, who are the backbone of the country's economic and social system, you know how much I fight in the Commission, Mr Deputy Minister, for the local authorities - so that they have important financial spaces to free resources, to be able to share public investments, today vital for the continuation of our country's life. As I said before, the DEF overlaps today, because today this document does not tell us much for the reasons I have just expressed. We must therefore play-force it override the various decrees, because they work together; Economic and financial programming document, in the short term because this DEF contains the year 2020-2021, instead of going beyond what it was last year. This DEF cannot therefore be defined as a law and the measures provided for in this document cannot enter into force immediately. On this point I have to refer to the activities of the Government at this stage, partly because unfortunately we have not been given the opportunity of comparison in this Parliament because all the fine statements of principle given by President Conte have not occurred so far. This DEF is light years away from the reality that we are experiencing; a dramatic reality not only from the health point of view. We are convinced that when this emergency passes, we will have to collect the rubble of an economically devastated country. This also depends on all the choices made by the Government, in particular by President Conte through the issuing of these famous decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers; we will return to another forum on this activity, which I do not know to what extent it is constitutional, referring to the work carried out by the President of the Council of Ministers. How can we give confidence, Mr Vice Minister, to this document if Minister Gualtieri himself, a month ago, not a year ago, speaking in the Budget Committee, during the approval of the so-called Italian Cura decree, said that coronavirus would cause a fall in GDP of some percentage point, which would have been fully manageable? This is one of the slips that our Minister made; not to mention the first slip when at the beginning of this pandemic crisis, he had declared that he needed a first decree to commit, as a net balance to be financed, from 3 to 7 billion euros at first stroke. The centre-right, in its entirety, had to intervene in order to point out the need for a decree that at least in that first phase had covered 30 billion net balances to be financed. The first decree - by chance - was 25 billion net balance to be financed. Not to mention the estimates of this DEF, which speak of a collapse of 8%, without thinking about what the International Monetary Fund says, about the fact that it estimates almost 10% of GDP fall in this year. Even for the year 2021, President, it is assumed a growth that leaves me grounded. I also heard the majority rapporteur speak of a growth in 2021 of 4.7%, even calling it an estimate of prudential growth. Moreover, the Minister has accustomed us to these statements, because it counts in a sort of economic boom in 2021, after an emergency ended, with a recovery in a great style of activity and consumption. Mr Vice-Minister, how can we think this way when, if we come out of this Chamber, we see no potential for economic boom, but a disaster? This disaster is assessed in some situations and in some critical issues that today the Italians live: to date, economic activities are still completely closed. We were thinking of a phase 2, but we are still in phase 1, and we do not know when the second phase will come, which will have important limitations for the purposes of social distancing, and it will be a drama for those who will eventually decide to reopen their activities. Not to mention the fact that Italians are bled out today, they no longer have a euro in their pockets. Mr President, it is clear that the priority of the Italian cure decree was, at least in the first phase, to avoid the spread of infection, but we must also note that with the measures taken by Italians if they do not die of viruses, they will probably die of hunger. So we're gonna have to be very careful. This is not to mention the liquidity decree and everything that has happened. In this regard, I would like to read an article which published a national newspaper on 26 April, when we were talking about a liquidity decree, which we will wait for in this House, where you told the entrepreneurs that if they want to survive, they must be in debt. We forced them to close first, then we promised them we'd reopen, but we didn't reopen. And there is still no trace of bank funds being provided to our entrepreneurs: neither EUR 25,000 nor more money. Instead, I would like to refer to what has happened in other countries, for example in Germany and the United States, where companies that have not fired and have continued to pay salaries to their employees have already had access to lost funds, and that within a few minutes have completed the three pages provided. I want to read you a written passage from an entrepreneur, who, among other things, represents the Industrial Union: my German company has received two grants, real money and not loans, showing a decrease in turnover and maintaining employment. In total, 34,000 euros have been paid out, but they must not be returned because they are lost. It was enough to fill out a three-page form and after less than a week we had the money in the bank account. This is what happens in neighbouring Germany compared to what is not happening in our country. I shall start with the conclusions, Mr President. We thought that many were left with the possibility of praying, but you were even stubborn to keep our churches closed, and you were also able to rage our bishops. Mr. President Conte (who is not present), Mr. Deputy Minister, gentlemen of the Government, with these continuous announcements you have told the fairy tales, but to these fairy tales the Italians no longer believe. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u42	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this DEF is moving on a very narrow path because, on the one hand, we have to meet the extraordinary demands of the pandemic and, on the other hand, we have to think about the economic restart of the country. Yet, for a strange joke of fate, the DEF arrives on the day when it denounces the presence in Italy of more than 1 million new poor from the beginning lockdown, who need help to ensure the food to their families. The loss of job opportunities, even occasional, two months after the closure of the country for the emergency, has led to a 40% increase in requests for food aid managed with the Fund of European aid to the needy and distributed by associations such as Caritas and the Food Bank, with peaks even higher in some areas of the country. Among the new poor there are those who have lost their jobs and cannot use smart working, small traders, artisans, people employed in the underground who do not enjoy special subsidies or public aid and do not have savings provided as well as many fixed-term workers and with occasional activities. The idea of the government is to create the conditions to restart the country. The DEF tries to draw this scenario, secure it, leaving no one behind and aiming to revive investment through a massive dose of expansionary measures. However, while Gualtieri reassures us that "the fundamentals of Italy's economy and public finance are solid", in the meantime yesterday the agency Fitch predicted a contraction of GDP of 8% in 2020 and downgraded the Italian economy. Standard & Poor's, a few days ago, left Italy's rating unchanged, maintaining its negative outlook. For companies already insolvent the crisis makes it unlikely that the asset can be sold with satisfactory results, because the market is completely altered. For companies already in crisis it is possible to propose a plan to be submitted to creditors and to the judge even if faced with such a wide and still uncertain crisis. Let us hope that the European Union will not only help the first companies, abandoning others to their destiny. However, this seems to be the direction taken by the liquidity decree, which identifies access to finance and the possibility of a perspective for business continuity only for those. It is certainly difficult to verify when a crisis has occurred, i.e. whether before or because of the pandemic. The industrial recovery of these days must be allowed to the indebted entrepreneur to suspend insolvency proceedings; his creditors must be suspended the possibility of asking for bankruptcy, also protecting the directors of companies in crisis and perhaps suspending payments of debts and enforcement actions. These could be some crucial points on which Parliament will have to intervene. For VAT consignments, of course, economic and financial policy must necessarily stimulate demand for liquidity and avoid further debt to future generations in order to achieve this vital objective. It is therefore necessary to allocate non-reimbursement refunds to business owners; it is urgent to allocate a non-refundable refund also to tenants; it is urgent to provide, for a period of at least six months, an emergency income; it is also urgent to encourage dialogue with banks, so that small loans of up to 100,000 euros at zero rates are granted, which can be repaid in at least fifteen years, for restructuring, innovations, conversion, purchase of stocks and consolidation of liabilities also for those companies in distress. We must not underestimate, ladies and gentlemen, that Northern Europe's partners with lower sovereign debts than ours, so with greater public spending capacity, will try to take advantage of the suspension of the rules on road recapitalisation and the derogation from the ban on state aid to redo the structure of the industrial fabric. In the meantime, Italy has not yet sent the notification for aid to companies to Brussels, while it has decided without any debate in this House what strategic sectors should be in which to enter its capital: telecommunications, energy and steel. We limit at least public aid to companies with tax and legal offices in Italy, without favouring multinationals that have gone abroad. There is no special public finance project on environmental and health policy in the DEF. In this perspective, the Government should have considered the possibility of implementing, for example, an energy and productive policy that could abandon fossils, valorizing our oil wells as collateral guarantee for the issuance of bonds in order to find new resources on the international market. The sole consistency of the oil field of Regions such as Basilicata would allow to issue bonds such as to clear the Italian public debt and with the saving between the cost of the current bonds and the oil bonds would, within twenty-five years, have resources to repay these bonds without extracting a single barrel and supporting the same cost that is paid today, as interest, on our public debt. With a public debt zeroed, we could start to invest again on the development of the whole country, in particular the Mezzogiorno, which up to now has been neglected in the policies of the governments. We have enormous reservoirs of water but they are not valued, we have the best grain in the world, for example, but we do not know how to value it, so we are treated worse than Canadian pigs. We have the best strawberries in the world, the best fruit and vegetables, but we don't know how to value it and the added value goes elsewhere. Meanwhile, the government must implement a forward-looking economic policy that takes into account all these aspects in order to protect health, which cannot fail to offer healthy food, with quality raw materials, free of pesticides and recognizable as authentic Made in Italy to protect the environment, by banning, among other things, those technologies whose biological effects can be seriously harmful to our health (I think of radio frequencies and electromagnetic pollution 5G). With this in mind, a sudden change in politics is urgently needed. It is urgent to introduce clearer labels that can allow consumers not to become intoxicated, more control at ports is needed, a careful food quality policy is needed, which would have a positive impact on the reduction of out-of-control health expenditure in our State. Today a kilo of pasta for a celiac, let's not forget it, it costs almost 12 euros and public finance goes out of control. For agriculture there is a lack of policies to protect farmers. In the DEF, we have seen that, among other tax provisions, more revenue is provided for by the re-determination of the purchase values of non-negotiated holdings of arable and building land. This means that it is this Government's intention to squeeze the agricultural world further with the increase in taxes. I think it is an unacceptable and careful choice for a category that is already on its knees. And then it is right that the government should provide more liquidity to entrepreneurs, playing a loud voice in order to transfer the funds, often unused, from the second to the first pillar. With regard to the Mezzogiorno, the Government must absolutely avoid the remodulation of the structural funds for cohesion for the Mezzogiorno, so that these funds remain bound. We have witnessed these days at the meeting whether or not there has been a leak from within the Government to allocate economic planning to other shores, but we believe that development funds for the South should not be touched. We must not touch on resources for social cohesion, school development and vocational training and for the employment of our children. According to Svimez, today the annual expenditure per capita in the enlarged public sector of the South, net of interest, is equal to 13,394 euros. In the Centre-North this investment is equal to 17,065 euros. It is a gap in historical spending that must be filled and not aggravated. If the opportunities offered by the special economic zones had been implemented in time by at least the regional governments, perhaps we would have had an extra hope today. The development of the South is not a matter of equity, equality of or convergence. It is a requirement for Italy as a whole. To the North it is necessary to revive the Mezzogiorno, above all as logistic pole of Europe, in a green optics so that it joins to its increase and developments the logistics, the ports and the economic zones special and a new manufacturing of quality that looks to the eco-sustainability. On the other hand, Prime Minister Conte himself said that investment in railways and infrastructure in the South should be more strategic than ever, so we should not neglect these aspects and we should ensure that this type of path can reduce the human pressure exerted only in certain areas of Italy which has contributed, thanks to the excessive pollution, to the spread of the virus with all the consequences we are witnessing. I believe that from this point of view human pressure has reached the stars and must be controlled through a redistribution of activities in a fair way, in order to prevent that nature can again reap victims in a territory already strongly tried and devastated. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u44	Mr President, undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I start from the situation, at least as I see it and as the people I attend see it. I hear we're gonna do, we're gonna see, we're gonna sink a 750 billion firepower. I don't see her. I hear people complaining. For now, I see you're releasing the inmates, the ones who are stained with serious crimes. I personally know of very serious situations, which put families in difficulty: prisoners released without buffer and without warning. I have heard and read that you are opposed to the criminal, civil and accounting shield for health professionals. With regard to employers, I read that when an employee gets Covid's disease he is enrolled in INAIL and, in the event of serious consequences, the issue becomes criminal, wherever the infection occurred, which is difficult to prove. I'll examine your background. I don't know what's gonna happen with Ilva and Alitalia. I see the migrants coming and I feel that you want to do the sanatoria for 600,000 of them because they should work in agriculture. Mr. Undersecretary, you're sensitive. Vouchers in agriculture are feasible; they are not an ideological dogma, but the quick tool to solve a problem. I think this is a DEF that examines the past, but maybe it was written before the outbreak. There will be a reason today if all categories protest: families who do not know where to put children; traders; craftsmen; the world of school; Confindustria and also the Church. In politics, when you have all the categories that protest, you have to stop for a moment and examine the situation and yourself and, if possible, change course. I think that the public debt - and I move on to a more constructive proposal - can be increased. If it's sustainable, it has to be verified, but everyone will. Draghi also says so and, if he says so, for his experience and credibility (and also because he rarely expresses himself in a clear and understandable way by everyone as this time), the situation is serious. However, it can increase by relying on guided, programmed and physiological inflation, but at the moment with a remuneration that can entice families (let's say 1.5-2 percent). The titles can be purchased by Italians (you call them as you want, for example BTP retail). There has also been talk of another proposal (it has been mentioned by members of the opposition and I have also written about it): the tax currency is feasible (it is tens of billions that can be put into circulation). You can set up the fund save Italy: we talked about it and it was invented not by me, but by economists. It is written and is in the act: it is necessary to enhance the public heritage. I now come to the so-called April decree (which may become the May decree). Remember that the IGC must be paid immediately - tomorrow - because there is no money in the pocket of Italians and workers who, unfortunately, suffer this difficulty because of the sector in which they work. It must be foreseen - you have talked about it, but I suggest that you do so in this way - a non-refundable contribution to companies - but immediately - based on turnover and the number of employees, without so many exhibits of documents. In fact, if we have to wait for the banks and the procedures, we will never get there. As for what you call emergency income (I don't like the name, but I adapt), not 500, but 1,000 euros to all families for three months. Then, break-down-c and not new charts; an industrial policy that knows what direction to go; a promotion campaign for Made in Italy and tourism that represents 13% of GDP and will be in considerable difficulty. It is necessary then that the public investments start according to the model Genoa: given the signature to the mayors and the Presidents of Province and Region. It is not a periodic crisis: it is a war. It will change the measure of judgment of things and values; it will change prices, costs, services and production. A vision of a more creative, innovative and centre-right society is needed. Freedom: anything is allowed, except what is forbidden. Producing wealth is not sin and it is not crime. No to a police state or a judicial company. We need a vision in which we also contemplate that the economy and society are sensations, skills, movement and creativity: the famous laissez faire, laissez passer. I think that sometimes it is appropriate to decide on the appropriations and to avoid taking decisions on certain matters. I hope, however, that - be patient for sincerity but I bring you what the Italians say outside - despite you we will succeed, because we are Italians. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Pizzol]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u45	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u46	Mr President, undersecretary Misiani, ladies and gentlemen, especially in this House, it would be very important, in my opinion, to build a sharing that photographes the phase of the crisis that we are going through, because the risk of listening to so many banalitys, which can then become dangerous outbreaks of opposition, I think it is clear to all of us. This is not a war, it is not a financial crisis that leads to a structural crisis of economic dynamics and it is not even a cyclical crisis that could be predicted with the instruments of government programming: this is a pandemic that is born local and becomes global and that produces effects not only in Italy; just look at the forecasts of the International Monetary Fund and the rates of reduction of growth (estimated, in my opinion, excessively conservative, at least 6%: this morning, at the hearing, the Bank of Italy even spoke of forecasts that can reach 10%). Therefore, it is a global phenomenon that affects at the heart the growth rates of the economic dynamics of our countries. So it is natural to imagine, with respect to the deviation that Parliament is preparing to authorize (I say this with friendship to my colleague Damiani, who has evaluated the instruments put in place so far by the government useless and ineffective in some respects), that we are making an economic framework that will allow the Government to realize, if we also take into account the first emergency maneuver of 25 billion euros, one of the largest and most expansionary economic maneuvers in the history of the Republic since the post-war period. They are, therefore, important instruments, because €55.3 billion in debt, plus €155 billion in net balance to be financed, are an appropriate response. Then it is a question of discussing and I say it with great intensity. The DEF does not support the National Reform Programme (NRP) and, therefore, political conflicts are also superficial and useless since we will have time and way, when the government presents them after the pandemic, to confront us at the national level of reforms, which is the political discrimination of a normal debate. In short, it would be time for responsibility, I say this very clearly, because the macroeconomic framework before us does not allow us to hesitate in this direction. Meanwhile, it does not allow anyone, and it is not a political question, to present an idea of Italy on the margins or against European dynamics. We need more Europe because, inevitably, this macroeconomic framework, starting with the 15% deficit-GDP ratio, inevitably requires a new European dynamic. We cannot talk about the ECB in the morning and fight Europe in the afternoon. Europe, in fact, has not only put new and massive investments in the field, with the ECB, which allow us to manage spreads (which, I repeat, is crucial for supporting economic growth), but it has suspended the Stability Pact and has put in place a number of measures that are all valuable and that will have to be checked carefully in the coming months. In fact, in order to manage a debt of 155% of GDP it is inevitable that the management of financial burdens requires a great thought and a great investment from all the economic dynamics that we face in our country. So, we need more Europe. It is insane and irresponsible to push Italy to the margins or against Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Just as it is insane and irresponsible at this moment to blow on the potential fire of a social conflict. I say this because this is also insane is unsustainable: calling the square is not a question against someone; it is a question that damages, not only democracy and institutions, but it damages the heart credibility of a country, generates instability, affects Italian families and businesses. We must therefore take on a collective responsibility and this also concerns re-starting. We all know, in fact, that we will have to live with the virus; with the scientific community we cannot be allied in the morning and enemies in the afternoon. The scientific community is working to build the conditions to develop an immune defense and it will be the vaccine that will secure us and, therefore, we will need a period of coexistence, which, with the necessary restart of economic dynamics, we must monitor carefully. Let us remember that the restart phase has put in place 4 million workers, who therefore move; we need to verify the epidemiological curve. On this dynamic I agree with the request and the proposal made this morning by the President of the Health Commission that we should also build Parliament's direction on how to deal with the new phase of the restart also for the more complex economic dynamics, because trade and tourism are national chains but unfortunately have their own area of life in the territorial dimension. We therefore need to build an area of Parliament's direction. It is not incompatible for Parliament to assume a responsibility together with the scientific community to share together, after monitoring the epidemiological curve, without the need to blow over conflicts. This seems to me to be a proposal and a useful measure. Be careful because even in the DEF an important economic operation is made: the safeguard clauses are sterilized, freeing us from a topic that from 2011 to the present paralyzes the construction of the budgets. Unfortunately, the budget law has always been paralysed by the need to sterilize these clauses. It is a structural choice that the Government makes and that Parliament is preparing to approve. How do you vote against structural dynamics that will help the country start again in the coming months? I will end with investment, speed and legality. It is true that we need to guarantee speed, but we must build a fast system in legality: we must make speed meet with legality. The data on usury crimes presented these days are dramatic and require a quick investment also on speed prevention and control because, only if we bring out the submerged and only if we bring the control of evasion and avoidance, as we did in 2019, to advanced levels, only... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .we can build the best conditions for the future of this country. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u47	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u48	Mr President, once again we are asked to vote on a document in which we are expected to go over a very important figure without giving us the details of how and where to use these resources. I am referring to what happens and could happen in health care. Let me give you an example because I want to make it very clear what I mean. We very much agree that we need to invest in health care, but as I have had the opportunity to say and to remember several times in this House too, we should first ask ourselves how the resources available to date have actually been used. Forgive me if, once again, I insist on the dispersion of resources due to inappropriateness, that those in charge of health care know how to be numerous and often of direct damage to the health of people, as well as an economic damage to the system. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And even if today the priority is not the efficiency but the effectiveness of the treatments, the programming of the so-called phase 2 cannot but be accompanied by a long-term project sustainable over time, with perspectives and opportunities according to merit, in an overall vision that tends to minimize the distortions that have occurred over the years and not only in this emergency phase. If that were the case, we would be ready to run to support the initiative. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] If, however, in view of the important availability for which we will be engaged for decades in the deficit shelf - there are not only the higher costs but there will also be the lack of tax revenues - not only do we not address the critical problems of the emergency but not even the crystallized structural deficiencies of our health system, I do not know whether it is more serious to keep its finalization or underestimate the severity of the possible distortion in the case of uncontrolled employment, as in many cases so far happened. Enlargement of the meshes of the tariff increases and the non-tariff functions laid down in Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 is an example as aggravating rather than regulating mechanisms of remuneration of placing on contract with general clauses that exclude that there is care and care without certainty of carrying out the fundamental measures of hygiene and prevention, both in hospital and in other areas of care (RSA in the first place), as a strict policy of combating infections related to care. Another example: the deaths of infections in hospitals in Italy - which have not died of B-series - amount to 50,000 per year, so about double the number of coronavirus deaths so far, without wishing to diminish them. A silent massacre that could be remedied by negotiating rules at the essential levels of assistance, prevention and control of communicable diseases, which we would have expected to find as a programme director. Another example: to stimulate the replacement of the lighting of the care structures with low consumption LED lamps and anti-germic UV and the use of molecular purifiers; to have a vision, in short. Well, we have not seen any trace of this. Italy has the sad primacy of mortality by antimicrobial resistance: over 10,000 per year for infections caused by bacteria that have become progressively insensitive to antibiotics due to the abuse of these drugs in humans and animals. Do you not think it is right to put some remedy to it by also putting hand in the food supply chain? The document underlying the resolutions that we are going to vote has its apical point in substantial indeterminateness when it claims that €2.8 billion has been allocated for health (those of Decree-Law No. 18 of 2020, to understand us) and it enters into the details on the allocation of resources to Civil Protection, until previewing the purchase of germicidal substances, without making any reference to the necessity of its redesign to overcome the gaps emerged, as a true central hub for emergencies that in the moment of need knows how to intervene in a universalistic way and with innovative tools. I am thinking, for example, of the creation of a dynamic register of civil protection reserve holders among the various retired professionals who can be recruited on a voluntary basis, not more than three years after quiescence and to be drawn on in case of need. In this case they are reservists in health care (not less than 5,000 doctors and at least 10,000 nurses), but this should happen also for engineers, in case of earthquakes, or for firemen, in case of floods, projecting the Civil Protection in the efficiency of the emergency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Even as far as territorial medicine is concerned, we have not seen anything except a mere declaration of intent on strengthening it (as I say "I love my mother"). But we should go far beyond what is the first level diagnostic equipment. Today, with modern technologies it is possible to make sure that a doctor from the last country of the "Val d'Ultimo" is put in real time in connection with a second opinion center that can support him in the diagnostic and therapeutic framework of the patient. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And a drone can deliver the most appropriate medications, even under a clinical trial regimen with remotely controlled administration on the territory. In short, it is necessary to encourage the adoption of new technologies that combine prevention and appropriateness, such as the recent one of the researchers of the University of Milan, Bicocca who have patented an anti-sprey oxygen kit. I shall conclude, Mr President. We would have liked to see - these are just a few examples - investments aimed at the effective modernisation and efficiency of the system in this programming document, called the anti and post-Covid challenge. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .that would have been useful to arrive much more prepared for the appointment with the coronavirus. We have made several requests in this regard, all unheard of. If it is true that the coronavirus for its virulence and lethality is destined to be epidemiologically and clinically governed (we do not know if we will take three months, six months or a year, but surely it will be governed), in this document there is no trace of how to cross, affecting a more careful use of resources, the descending curve of the health emergency with the ascending one of the economy, thus risking the drift of the social emergency! And that's why we're disassociating. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u49	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u50	Mr President, as we read in the preamble to the economic planning document before our examination, the fact that we postpone the presentation of the National Reform Programme and its main annexes responds to a need for consistency - I quote - with the orientation expressed also by other European countries and in the light of the guidelines reviewed by the European Commission. This means that this year, in the document before us, sectoral policies have clearly remained unanswered and therefore, with regard to the issues that I deal with daily in Parliament, including those relating to education, the right to study, higher education and therefore to university and high artistic, musical and coreautic training (AFAM), research, cultural goods and activities - including live entertainment - and sport. Therefore, today's debate is also an opportunity to reflect on the National Reform Programme that will have to come and to participate in this debate in a proactive and collaborative way, thus participating in such an important moment in such an emerging phase. We know that some urgent measures of revival, highlighted in the Document for our examination, will be contained in one of the two measures that the Document itself tells us to be of imminent arrival in the Chambers: one concerning the further measures of support to workers and businesses in order to better prepare the recovery phase, and the other aimed at introducing a series of simplifications of administrative procedures in some sectors considered strategic for the relaunch of the Country. In this regard, I would like to make a point, because when we talk about simplifications, those who deal with cultural goods are immediately alarmed by the protection of the landscape and the heritage. I would therefore like to take this opportunity to draw the House's attention further to the need to guarantee the principle of maximum protection for our artistic and landscape heritage, as provided for in Article 9 of the Constitution. Among the urgent measures to relaunch culture, we read measures for workers, operators and businesses, for support to demand and for relaunching sectors; for education we read of investments and simplifications in technological innovation, school building, non-university tertiary training and support to the zero-six-year educational services network; for higher education and research, we read of measures to support the functionality of universities, high artistic, musical and coreautic education and public research bodies. The estimates contained in the document before us are glorious - let us say this - but it is the period to be gloomy, dramatic and exceptional. In this context, one of the main concerns is that, with the worsening of a structural crisis, there may also be a dramatic social impoverishment, which clearly also involves the danger of increasing inequality and that, therefore, the "virus" of poverty can be spread even more, but it is not just material poverty, which is already a very serious problem in itself because it compromises a number of fundamental human rights (such as the right to food or health to remain in the area of health emergency): I also want to draw attention to immaterial poverty, linked to the danger of increasing educational poverty. Already in February 2020, in a meeting with the United Nations specifically dedicated to educational poverty in the world, the UN data was not reassuring. UNESCO is now giving back data that are clearly concerned, because it tells us that by 18 April 2020 91.3% of students stopped school activity, for a total of 1.5 billion students in 191 countries. In Italy, since March 5, nine million students from schools of every order and grade have suddenly had to take part in distance teaching and I thank Minister Azzolina and this Government for all the measures they have managed to put on the field until now, to try to make sure that all our children and all our students were able to have access to distance teaching. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We know, however, that there is still a lot to be done; we know that and we are aware of this, but this cannot fail to acknowledge the merits of the Government and the Minister in this field. It is clear, however, that the risk of an increase in educational poverty is closely linked to that of school leaving, but also to another risk if we move to the sector of post-school education of compulsory education, that is to say, the risk of a contraction or abandonment of post-school training courses of compulsory education, therefore of university education, whether it be university or artistic, musical and coreautic. Therefore, the right to study, to training and to the full development of the person is also in danger. It goes without saying that in this context there is also a strong need to significantly increase investment in research, because I think that at this moment even the most disinterested citizen is now clear how important it is for a country to invest adequately in public and free research, so I will not dwell too much on this point, because I give it for established. I am convinced that the importance of investing in this sector and its professionalism has been absorbed and introjected. Finally, I would like to talk about the culture that, together with education, is one of the sectors most affected by this pandemic, because it is one of the sectors that unfortunately, given the usual dynamics of proximity between people and given the essence before the culture itself, which is a moment of aggregation among people, is one of the sectors that is paying the most for this crisis and that is tirelessly and perhaps more in the long run will be able to fully resume its activities. I would also like to say a few things about this, because UNESCO tells us that, again on 18 April 2020, of the 167 countries that have assets on the UNESCO World Heritage List, 119 have completely closed all sites, 31 countries have authorized partial openings and 17 have kept the sites open. One of the first answers was clearly the use of digital and streaming and well come, and here again the measures put in place so far by the Minister and the Government to try to give support to the world of cultural goods and activities, especially live entertainment and cinema, but there is still much to be done. There is, in fact, still to be faced an emergency because still many workers of the live show wait for measures to be supported and there is still to be done to plan the restart and the subsequent period of transition towards normality and will not suffice the digital and streaming because, as I said before, the primary function of culture is to bring people closer, is the aggregate aspect. Not only that: from the culture will come those stimuli of creativity, exploration and ability to get out of the paradigms that we will need if we want to continue that path that the Government has laudably undertaken, even in the European context, breaking a wall and talking overpoweringly of solidarity. That is why we should continue on that path to change these paradigms and to talk about indices that do not fall into GDP but into fair and sustainable well-being. From culture and education we will get the necessary resources, fundamental, to rethink these new times in the sign of social justice. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, one premise: we are discussing here a document of economics and finance that has been handed over to us, but we are doing so also in the light of the news we know about the so-called restart. I have to say that we cannot help but be sorry about this because, Mr President, it may be understandable that the emergency is managed in some way by simple communications to Parliament, but the same is not acceptable for the planning of our future. I know the Undersecretary feels the same way, but I ask him to report it to President Conte. The Constitution does not stipulate that the President of the Council should make us aware of his decisions, but that he should discuss and decide with Parliament. This, Mr President, is also because we are at a very special time. We have a post-war situation with a global crisis. I come to the debate on the document. Since the post-war period, we've had debts, Draghi told us some time ago. Nothing to say, therefore, about the measure of the deviation that has been envisaged. However, if you don't pay attention to how this money is spent, history warns us. We have a precedent, that of the Republic of Weimar, in which, precisely, the consequences of a post-war war were added to the consequences of a global economic crisis and we know how it ended. Then, with regard to this and with a non-preventive attitude, I must say that I do not seem to have found the way to go; I am not reassured by the Document that I have read, they do not reassure me of the things I have heard on television, between the news and the usual unknowns. Nor do I honestly feel that a solution can come from the so-called liquidity decree. Mr President, we have also tabled motions for resolutions and questions on deburocratisation, whereas here we have some mediations which, in fact, have so far anesthetized that measure, with regard to which there was no preconception. We used the INPS and then we invented the invasion of the hackers; it was thought that we could make use of SACE, which was obviously not ready for a role of that type; we imagined to use the banks and we got to the maximum to restructure some credit line. But if any of you know a single company that has had a new important credit line thanks to that decree-law, please let us know as an example in this House. Unfortunately, he's not here. And I must add, even here without a preconceived attitude, Mr President, that it seems to me - and I say this to Mr Missa, of which I appreciate the tones - that even from Europe did not come that shot of kidneys that could be expected. I am not one of those who believe that we can do without Europe and I am absolutely aware that without the ECB we would have a spread twice that of what forced some governments of the Republic to resign, even if they maintained a majority in this Parliament. Europe, however, has not become a community of destiny, Europe has remained a condominium with the rule of the strongest. We went from one reference to another; the ESM remained a treaty despite everyone's opinion of its use; the recovery fund is still wrapped in the mists of Brussels. I do not think I have found any trace of the measures that we could have imagined, in order to widen the path that could lead us out of this situation, that is to say, a real sburocratization. We have the example of the bridge of Genoa: an emergency intervention, for which 63 passages have been skipped. Mr President, if we are not in emergency today, when will we be and when will we consider ourselves in emergency? And then we should remove levels of intermediation, which means compensating public administration debts, paying debts, creating tax credits and, above all, sterilizing tax obligations. To postpone certain deadlines until the extent and duration of the crisis was known could have made sense. To postpone today simply means to convince some enterprises that it is better to desist because there will come a time when the step will be too high. Mr President, I shall finish where I started; I believe that these things concern our future, Parliament should speak not in the form of a DEF, but in the form of a debate on recovery. Yesterday I happened to connect with the website of the French National Assembly, where the Prime Minister (person I do not like politically), with perfect institutional style, illustrated a plan before doing it to journalists and before doing it on television [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Lunesu]] , in tones not from Big Brother. Mr President, allow me to conclude with the words and quotation of another Count, an Italian very beloved in France. An Italian citizen, seeing those scenes and comparing them to how we and our institutions are reduced, has the same feeling that that Count attributed to the French when they attended the victories of Bartali: the lies turn to him. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'AZ Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u53	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u54	Mr President, thank you very much for giving me the floor and also thank you for stopping to listen to this long general debate. Thank you, it's a form and a feeling that I appreciate very much. I begin by saying that when we approve of the budgetary deviation tomorrow we will confirm the extent to which the state's financial commitment at this stage is broad and also very heavy in relation to our public debt, on which today Fitch's downgrading has given a worrying signal. The sacrifices of the Italians and the use of this huge mass of public financial resources must move us to bring the country out of the crisis with measures that make it not only stronger from the economic and social point of view, but also stronger, more robust and more linear in its institutions. It is precisely with reference to the difficulties of our institutional condition that I address to the President of the Senate to ask her to do everything she can to stop the showy decline of Parliament, and to the President of the Council, to ask him to return to the Senate to explain his vision of the future of the country. Mr President, there is a great deal to be said about Parliament's decline. No day goes by without hearing how marginal Parliament has become, and its substantial evaporation has become unsustainable these days. The government and all its committees have never stopped working full-time; mayors, regional presidents, hospitals, civil protection, law enforcement, public services work at the limits of heroism; pharmacies, bakeries, supermarkets, groceries and hardware. Frankly, it is not understood why the Senate, after a first phase of full closure, must continue to meet very partially and only to approve the urgent measures of the Government. Mr President, I would ask you to go back to getting the Senate to work according to your usual schedule and allow the Commissions and the House to examine the measures of parliamentary initiative as well. The reduced work of the Senate helps to foster an anti-parliamentary climate and a discredit of Parliament that comes from afar. It depends to a large extent on us Members, on our silence in the face of the decline, first of all, and also on the quality of our work and the firmness with which we are able to defend our prerogatives.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u55	Excuse me, Senator Zanda, if I interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u56	Colleagues, I remind you that you cannot photograph or film in this House. You know that and you don't need me to say it. Please, Senator Zanda, continue. ZANDA (PD). I am not thinking only of the damage that comes to Parliament from the abnormal reduction of what is our main task, the legislative function, which is now exercised mainly by the Government with votes of confidence and decree-laws. We know that Italian democracy is very strong and has sufficient antibodies, but it is always good to use exceptional instruments with caution. This applies not only to the decree-laws, but also to the decrees of the President of the Council, whose use must be not only limited, but also careful not to invade the reserve of law. I suggest an accurate reading of the intervention of the President of the Constitutional Court, Cartabia, in this regard. I also have in mind, Mr President, the many cases in which we Members delegitimized Parliament, mortified the House and the Senate, letting it be said, without listening to any kind of reaction, that the reason for the reduction in the number of Members would be the saving of EUR 50 million. Just as having claimed that legitimately perceived vitality was stolen money: this term was used. This has offended the honour of so many personalities who before us have been MPs and senators, and many of whom have made Italy. Nor did it benefit the term 'breakup' for Members of Parliament, just as it does not help those internal regulations for parties, including my own - which delimit the mandate of their parliamentarians to two or three legislatures. I wonder how it is possible to forget that the greatest politicians in republican history - we had an example of this a while ago celebrating President Colombo - from Moro to Berlinguer, from La Malfa to Craxi, from Malagodi to Saragat and Almirante, have all formed, but everyone, through a very long parliamentary presence. Even nationalist preaching - let me tell you - does not help to strengthen parliamentary democracy. Until the serious damage caused by the demand for full powers, which was an indirect way of saying that in Italy we must do what Orbán did in Hungary. Look at the fact that renewal is a vital lifeblood of Parliament, but just as vital is the need not to disperse culture and political experience. I am well aware, Mr President, that extra-parliamentary political events have also been mentioned here and I am well aware of your powers and I certainly do not take the President of the Senate out of his jacket and ask him to cross them; but you represent all the senators in office and, morally, you also represent the senators of the past legislatures. Therefore, a clear word of yours and, where it serves, even high, rude and repeated on the dignity of Parliament, in particular on the exercise of legislative power, would give great strength to those many who do not resign themselves to the progressive transformation of our democracy into something that is not yet understood, but that would certainly have a rate of democracy far lower than the one desired by our constituent Fathers. I shall end by addressing the President-in-Office of the Council, of course, Mr Malpezzi will report, because the vote on budgetary deviation also applies as an expression of confidence to the Government for the work done in the first phase of this very serious and difficult crisis. However, there is a recommendation that I feel like renewing to the President of the Council and doing so on the Solemnity of the Senate Chamber: at a time when a lot of caution is required for health risks and a lot of courage to avoid depression and to restart the economy, Parliament and the country have an extreme need to know the horizon to which the Government is taking Italy. Even in these days the power of television is showing an evolution of our institutional practices; Senator Quagliariello recalled it in other words. Illustration of important government measures on television, before in Parliament, shows the reversal of an institutional order that should never be abandoned. The prospect of recovery must move us to bold choices for new social, industrial and environmental policies and must commit ourselves to substantial investments in school, scientific research and innovation. The resources that Italy and Europe are mobilizing amount to several hundred billions and to a not small extent all this will increase our debt, which is the first among our many concerns. How can we expect to commit hundreds of billions and increase a debt already so disproportionate, without the President-in-Office of the Council coming to Parliament to explain the general perspective and the overall sense of the choices we are going to make? [[Applause from Senator Garavini]] The billions of euros are in fact only a part of what the country needs. The country also needs a thought, a project and a logic that helps to place in their context the various decisions and that, paraphrasing Aldo Moro, reassures us that it is we who lead the events and not to be guided by them. One last minute for an appeal, President: despite the fact that in our prisons the number of prisoners has fallen, it is still not enough. Prisons can receive 47,000 prisoners and host almost 54,000 of them. I am not here to repeat the very serious health warnings that we all know, just as we know the risks of infection. Instead, I say that in overcrowded prisons the great crime is easy to grasp on the many prisoners for minor crimes, who, if they are not protected by a human prison environment, end up fatally being enlisted by the great crime. Those who camp for security reasons to oppose measures that can reduce crowding must know that the policy of crowded prisons has fatally opposite consequences. Only humanly livable prisons, where a prisoner is guaranteed the living space without being forced to come to terms with the internal mafias, can guarantee public security. In the overcrowded prisons you enter small drug dealers and you exit the maneuvering of the great mafias. This is today the great risk to which the conditions of our prison system are exposing the country and if we do not want this scenario to be perpetual it is necessary to decide. The President-in-Office of the Council can do it, really do it and do it quickly. [[Applause from the PD, FIBP-UDC and IV-PSI groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u57	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u58	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I have appreciated a large part of Mr Zanda's speech, which has always been timely in his remarks during the last parliamentary term, as the Parent Company. I appreciated that when it came to the role that Parliament and the House must play. The Senate Chamber and Chamber of the House must return to the central point of the political and administrative life of our country. I appreciated it in a passage, when he recalled that someone, this summer asked for full powers, with a summer joke, while now we are with someone who, on the other hand, has taken full powers by means of television apparitions, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and technical advisors who wanted to put in place parliamentarians regularly elected by the Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] I, too, urge President Conte to come to Parliament, to confront Members of Parliament, the senators, to confront the House and the Commissions. The vote of the House is now an optional one. This, colleagues, is a drama that struck our country that could have created a climate that has very few precedents in the history of Italy, in republican history. Majority and minority working together to overcome this period with dignity and make it overcome our fellow citizens: a joint work, a work where elected parliamentarians in totally different parties would be put together, but a job demanded loudly by the Italians. In these two months, however, the desired cooperation has not been seen. You had to do what the government said, and if not, you were bad. We have seen a superstar President of the Council occupy television stations to announce measures that are disappointing millions of Italians. Even today you tell us that you do not know exactly where the money will be spent, but that we must trust you. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Gentlemen, the productive world - and the League does not say so - is disappointed by the lack of answers these months. The world of social is disappointed, the world of sport is disappointed. Italian families and parents are in turmoil because they no longer know what answers to give to their children and what answers to their relatives. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There are two issues that are particularly important to me: the first is about agriculture and agriculture. By now the Ministry has become the seat of Italy Viva, where there is more talk of politics than of issues related to agriculture. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The regions are calling for the containment of wildlife and there has never been any mention of it. We have asked for help for the most difficult supply chains. For the milk supply chain, we have proposed transparency on import data. It didn't cost anything, but you also rejected that proposal. For the fishing industry, on more than one occasion we have remembered that the Italian fishermen ask for help from the Ministry, but they do not get answers. Even as far as florovivaism is concerned, one executive of the Ministry said it took a billion and that billion never arrived. For pig farming, Assica calls for EUR 500 million, but again there has been no response. As for the problem of wine, everyone says that wine is an excellence. Very well, this year there will be a problem for this supply chain. We asked for distillation and green harvesting: no response. We have put forward proposals, President; we have asked to build the "made in Italy" chain, as other countries are doing, such as France. A chain in which all sectors should have been seated at the Ministry table: distribution, processing companies and the whole world of the primary. Well, not a word. But not a lack of response to the League: not a response to the chains and interlocutors who wanted to talk to the Minister. And then we remember that - alas - we made a brief list of all the requests coming from agriculture. The only thing we hear is that agriculture needs 600,000 illegal immigrants who need to be regularised, which the Minister believes is the priority of the agricultural world. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Look at what other countries - Spain or France - have done, which have taken steps to provide funds for people in need, for those who are in cash, for those who are unemployed. And elsewhere, jobs are found. I wonder why not in Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then there is the tourism sector. We proposed to the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism a strategic plan on 2 March. We were the first to have called the trade associations together with whom we have put forward proposals. On 2 March we said that we were available, with a view to cooperation that you asked us: we are still waiting for an answer from the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and for Tourism, too busy to do anything else. Tourism is a sector where 75% of the billed will be "dead." Within the tourism sector there are a whole series of chains that will not have the opportunity to cheer up. That is the problem we are highlighting. Stop the thermal tourism; stop the farmhouses; closed theme parks; the incoming almost dead; as for internal tourism, we hope to get away with it. Same thing for public exercises. Yesterday in the Commission the FIPE told you exactly what it thinks: you did not consider them, in two months you did not listen to them once. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group):]] 300,000 Italians working in the field of public establishments were not considered. We proposed a Marshall plan on tourism, nothing. We have proposed an extraordinary fund of income support (for lost funds, because this is what tourism associations are asking for), nothing, not even an answer in two months. We proposed the good holiday to give to Italians to make the holidays in Italy, but you failed. On 2 March we proposed it to you and you rejected it in this Parliamentary Assembly and then, on television, you heard majority representatives say that the brilliant idea of the year is your holiday bonus. Shame on you. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We called for the immediate adoption of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers implementing the revision of maritime state property concessions, pursuant to Law No 145 of 30 December 2018, at zero cost. To date the beaches are still waiting for an answer from this Government, whose representatives go before the beaches to promise them measures. We have proposed vouchers at work both in agriculture and in tourism. The answer was zero simply because CGIL, CISL and UIL sent the government a letter saying that they would create the social clash if the Executive accepted the vouchers. You are in the hands of the unions and, together with them, you are responsible for the situation of the work that exists in this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You forgot, as I told you, about public exercises and public shows, concerts and events. Even these categories in the coming days want to make a demonstration, challenging the law and going to the square - I do not recommend - to protest against this Government. We're the ones protesting this government. So, ladies and gentlemen, how can we trust you? Italy doesn't trust you. Too confusing, approximate and conflicting, with representatives of the majority and the government who publicly say that the Executive is wrong. But go tell the Council of Ministers that your colleagues in government are wrong and not on television! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Have courage and dignity: if you think the government is wrong, pack your case and go home, because it means you don't share what the Executive is doing. A little dignity and a little consistency at this time would not hurt either. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u61	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I would just like to apologise, because I have caused Senator Urso to make a one-minute recording. I really want to apologize, because I know the Rules of Procedure and I know that this cannot and must not be done. In thirty seconds, however, I want, to attenuate, if not to justify, to explain why. Today is April 29th and the 45th anniversary of the assassination, in Milan, of a young man of seventeen years, Sergio Ramelli, murdered by a commando of Avanguardia workeria, one of whose members is a doctor today. It's a day I wanted to be in Milan. I couldn't, I wanted to testify from here the reasons for my absence. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I am still sorry, Mr President, but the memory of Sergio Ramelli I wanted to express in this Chamber too. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u62	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pagano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank Mr Zanda, who is now descending the steps of this House. Indeed, I must say that listening to words of politics with capital P, as I believe he has done, is doing good for politics today. That is why I too believe, as well as those who said before, that the role of Parliament and, above all, the right that all Members of Parliament have to allow Parliament to play the role that our Constitution assigns to it is absolutely fundamental. Mr Quagliariello also pointed out that, even in situations of health emergency such as the one we are experiencing, in a pandemic and, therefore, in a global epidemic, we must never forget that, however, we are a Republic that has a Constitution, which must absolutely be taken into account and observed. In fact, it must be remembered, I say it telegraphically, that in our Constitution there are no pandemic and epidemic emergencies, but only from a state of war. Therefore, we are in a situation that we live with analogy to the state of war, but it is right to remember that all limitations to our freedom and rights must, however, be combined with our constitutional system. Let us never forget, because too many times in these days, in these measures and in these decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, I believe that the main road we must go has been lost. I do not want to talk so much about this DEF, from which it is clear that our public debt increases and that the unemployment rate for 2020 is also rising in the future and, unfortunately, for 2021 too. I'm not going to tell you about things you already know. It is a DEF that we consider to be totally inadequate and, in our view, it is because it is completely lacking a programme and a general plan. Above all, from this DEF emerges no kind of intention to move towards a reduction of the tax pressure, which is absolutely vital for the future of this country. I would like to recall how, unfortunately, some of the issues we have raised and which have also been raised in this debate, and which we are debating these days, are not actually addressed in the right way in the country. For example, a key word, a word that has become fundamental for everyone in this country is the word liquidity, which seems to have become the magic word in these days. As, however, has often happened in the past, we do not miss the goal so much, but how to achieve this goal. That is the first problem I want to raise today in this House. 18) (Following PAGE). First of all, it is better to point out that, when the President of the Council of Ministers spoke of liquidity, perhaps he would have been right to talk about debt. When it comes to liquidity, we do nothing but talk about debt for those who apply for it. Whether it is a request of 25,000 euros to total guarantee of the state or the stakes up to 800,000, it is money that companies and small entrepreneurs will have to return. Whether it's a closed bar, a beautician or a barber, the questions are always the same: will I have customers in the future? Will I be able to pay the payments to the bank or my suppliers? How long will this lockdown last? Let's face it frankly: you could and should have chosen another way, to provide at least for some types of enterprise or craftsmanship grants. It is the only possibility to give some serenity especially to those who are suffering on their skin the devastating effects of this forced closure and, that is, the self-employed. The demand for absolute guarantees and loans to Europe is also fundamental, but it must be clear that, even when we talk about recovery funds, we must talk above all about grants. In the DEF there is talk of public debt, which will increase. The budgetary deviation cannot but see us naturally in favour, but it is a question of whether we should live or die. Restarting the country means helping businesses that are its only engine. We cannot believe that this country can be blocked by the bureaucracy we have. There's only one thing worse than not doing things: promise them and don't do them. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u64	Senator Santillo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u65	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said many times today that we are faced with an unimaginable situation. Coronavirus pandemic is a historic event; a huge challenge faced by the government and the majority are trying to gather every effort to mitigate the health and economic effects and lay the foundations for a re-start in complete safety. The economic effort put in place in this sense is great: between decree cure Italy, decree liquidity and the imminent new decree-law we will have a recourse to the deficit for approximately 80 billion euros. The new measure, in particular, will put in place a deficit of 55 billion, the same as requested in the report submitted to Parliament in terms of deviation from budgetary objectives. In all the manoeuvre triggered by the measure will come to more than 150 billion, considering the public guarantees for the provision of liquidity to the enterprises, the new endowments for the Cassa depositi e loani and the billions put in field in order to pay the debts of the public administration towards our entrepreneurs. The importance of the combined arrangement of these measures is in the eyes of all. We are talking about a further wide extension of the integration fund for the benefit of very small companies, a widening and strengthening of monthly support for the self-employed, an incisive non-profit intervention for companies that have suffered a decrease in turnover, an emergency income for those who have been discovered by the guarantees provided by the integration fund and support for the self-employed. I repeat: everything must be read in a complex of organic measures that are progressively seeking to respond to the changing needs of the population. In a world whose balances were literally overturned by an invisible virus, but very aggressive there was no alternative to this way of proceeding: careful monitoring of the situation, a subsequent package of progressive responses adapted from time to time to the rapid evolution of the problems. The 5 Star Movement as a decisive component of the majority that supports this Government has not damaged and will not undermine its efforts to ensure that the resources allocated to these measures arrive at their destination, to ensure that liquidity arrives as quickly as possible to our companies, our craftsmen, our traders and our families, to ensure that considerable part of these same resources is used to enhance the primary good that is our National Health Service. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In a context where GDP is expected to fall by 8%, a deficit increase by 10% of GDP, an increase in debt by 15% of the same gross domestic product, we have an obligation to interpret and direct this crisis. I mean that this huge challenge must be interpreted as an accelerator of the processes of change that, until a few months ago, if not a few weeks, seemed irremediably blocked. In this direction there will be massive simplifications of all the procedures that must lead to free investments, to open the yards, to archive all those tasks that will not have to hinder the potential of restarting. The government is working on these simplifications. Parliament, also strong in its experience and input accumulated during the discussion of some previous measures (such as unblocking construction sites) is able to provide valuable suggestions and valuable solutions to remove sand from all those gears that will have to be lubricated, with an eye to the business and construction sector, to that of public works and infrastructure, the real flywheels of the economy of our country. In short, as stated by our Prime Minister Conte, we must realize the unlock Italy. The Italian Government is playing its part, in the knowledge that the response to coronavirus, European and international drama - symmetrical drama, as has been said several times - will have to be strengthened and expanded precisely in a European dimension. Let us not forget the delay with which a certain Community technocracy has moved; no one wants and can hide the fact that the European Union, even if faced with an event of epochal significance, at certain times seemed to want to respond more by looking at the interests of its own garden than at the heart of the problem. One thing is certain: the last European Council has certified the inclusion - in the package of solutions put in place - of the establishment of the recovery fund, the so-called recovery fund, defined as urgent in the final documents. This is a very important result, the merit of which goes largely ascribed to the Italian Government that has been able to become the leader of a series of countries that, during the negotiations, have asked the use of common debt instruments. I am referring to the letters of the nine countries, including Italy, Spain and France, but I want to be clear: nobody believes that the reference to the recovery fund is in itself a magic wand. We know very well that at the moment we can consider that reference as the embryo of a very difficult path. We will have to deal with it once again in order to provide this instrument with adequate resources to ensure that most of these are allocated to States in the form of transfers and not loans. The latter, in fact, would only burden national public debts already suffering as the Italian one. Having obtained the inclusion of the recovery fund principle is a result of absolute value. It is a political commitment to which Eurogroup, European Council and Commission must feel bound. This is where the turning point must begin, that acceleration of the processes of change to which I referred earlier. The European responses accompanying the commitment to set up a recovery fund from this point of view do not seem to represent the characteristics of a breakthrough. The Sure plan against unemployment has a potential of EUR 100 billion which, however, would always be lent. In addition, it could not provide more than EUR 10 billion per year, which is far too small a figure compared to the enormous challenge of labour protection. The investment of the European Investment Bank (EIB) is based on the logic of loans, which can only be granted after the provision of State guarantees of 25 billion. Finally, the ESM, for its part, for the Movimento 5 Stars continues to be a completely inadequate and insufficient instrument. Given the current content of the treaties, it does not exclude, on the contrary, imposes strict conditionality on the country that should request access to its funds. It would make 36 billion available which cannot be considered a response to the situation, especially if this figure is the antechamber to demand a future macroeconomic adjustment that has already done irreparable damage to other countries. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today Italy has had a primary surplus of 20 years, i.e. it closes the budget for revenue above expenditure, net of interest on debt, except for one year. But this did not lead the debt to decrease and did not put the country in a direction of growth. In addition, as certified by authoritative estimates, this virtuous accounting path has led the National Health Service to be definanced for EUR 37 billion over the past ten years. Then I ask myself and ask you: should we go and ask the ESM for EUR 36 billion for the National Health Service, that is the same billions that have been denied to our hospitals, our doctors and our nurses in the last decade with macroeconomic adjustments? And then maybe we should hear from the ESM gentlemen that in return we have to undergo the same macroeconomic adjustments? In all this, the role of the ECB remains central, which has recently strengthened and expanded its scope of action in the purchase of government bonds. We are aware of the statutory limits that remain; but, precisely because we need to overturn the schemes so far followed, we must insist on the further extension of the European Central Bank's modus operandi to protect the most fragile public debts. It is not the time to re-propose austerity, but it is the time to face the suffering of citizens and businesses. The 5 Star Movimento is immersed in this suffering and intends to fight to the end to get the country out of all of this. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u66	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u67	Mr President, the figures for this Economic and Financial Document are certainly very worrying, I would say dramatic. I am referring to the -8 per cent forecast of GDP for 2020 and the 15 per cent ratio of public debt to GDP; These predictions say everything, they say that the situation of our economy risks becoming unsustainable. I believe, however, that we must not go into a discussion that determines whether these forecasts are more or less reliable and whether the numbers are correct or not; the basic issue is whether this Government has addressed and is dealing effectively and coherently with the health emergency that created this disaster in the public accounts and whether it is dealing effectively with the economic emergency. We are convinced - and I believe most Italians are - that the Government has not been able to cope with either the health emergency or the economic emergency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He was unable to cope with the health emergency because we now know that since January it has been known that there were risks of pandemics caused by coronavirus and has been lost more than a month guilty, with an unacceptable delay, at a time when instead we had to create the conditions to have beds available for intensive therapies, breathing necessary to face this pandemic wave, medical devices and masks useful to our health staff and our community. All this has not been done; the government acted late and we were in the middle of a pandemic without even having the chance to be ready to face it. We obviously activated a lockdown that was absolutely necessary to safeguard the safety of Italians. But the question is: have those necessary measures been taken to keep the economy up during the lockdown? We're convinced we're not. The famous 350 billion loans have not been activated, the integration fund is late and there are no signs of reopening. The latter has taken place in an entirely inadequate way, starting from libraries and libraries or other areas that are certainly important, but in fact without a single strategy. Can we wait for the reopening now? We're convinced we're not. We cannot wait for a vaccine that we do not know when it will come, in a year or more; it is time to make decisions. This Government in Europe was weak and divided and in Italy it appeared slow and confused. For phase 2 we need clear lines, few clear lines. It is not enough for the press conferences of the President-in-Office of the Council, who regularly announces various measures, always in a completely confused way; clear and clear rules are needed for reopening. It is not necessary to establish a calendar dedicated to commercial, craft and industrial activities; rules are needed. It is necessary to determine the prerequisites for an activity to be opened: the necessary health care facilities and the hygiene of the premises. These are the prerequisites and therefore we must reverse the behaviour that has been adopted so far by the Government, which has set opening dates without establishing criteria. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On 4 May, how will industries be able to open up their activities? What measures will they be required to take? We do not know yet; on 4 May it is close and many will not be in a position to reopen safely. We say 'yes' to reopening, but we demand safety arrangements and certain rules so that this can be done to protect citizens and workers. It was then unqualifiable and petty - allow me - the behaviour of the Government, which, in the face of its own divisions and difficulties, wanted to shift the attention to the behaviour of the Regions and local authorities, who found themselves in the front row facing an unprecedented emergency, without the appropriate conditions of support by the Government. You have made accusations against the Regions exclusively to protect your image: your only goal was to shift the spotlight on others to hide your inadequacy. It has been an unacceptable and shameful behaviour, which unfortunately continues in these days too. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We therefore call for clear measures on tax peace and zero bureaucracy. What do we mean by zero bureaucracy? You keep thinking that bureaucracy is used to limit evil, but it is not. Those who are addicted to evil know how to circumvent even the most complicated rules. Honest citizens, who want to comply with the rules, are oppressed by the bureaucracy, rules and harassment you impose through the law. We asked a year ago, when we were in the government with the 5 Star Movement, to stick to the bureaucracy established in the procurement code by the European Commission, which is paradoxically less restrictive than what we are applying in Italy today. We asked for it a year ago and now it is time to intervene. We call for grants and tax breaks, because we cannot live only with the poor subsidies that you are distributing at this stage of emergency: that is not the solution. You can only live by returning to work and putting businesses in a position to give jobs. Italy was the first to set up lockdown and, unfortunately, will be the last to get out of it. This is the only sad primacy of the Count-A government. Here is the difference between the governments that have acted effectively and in a timely manner and a government like ours which, on the other hand, has acted slowly, without courage and with a guilty inertia, which is putting our economic system in crisis. Certainly we do not recognize ourselves in a President-in-Office of the Council - allow me - vain and vain, more attentive to his image, to the fold and to the haircut of his hair, than to the malaise of his citizens and to the suffering of his own community. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a shame: get a move on, settle down, because the country can no longer wait and can no longer afford the luxury of putting up with your indecision, your inadequacy and, in fact, your worthlessness! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u68	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to share a story, because there are always people's destinies behind large numbers and macroeconomic data. So I'd like to start with the story of Daniela and Francesco, a young couple, with an eight-month-old boy, Mattia. Their dream of getting married in September had to set aside, on a date to be destined, not so much because they fear the continuation of the ban on gatherings, but because of the fear of not being able, economically speaking. Daniela worked in a company that has to do with tourism, which has already announced the closure of her home and therefore is basically out of work, and the same fate belongs to her partner, Francesco, who had only recently opened a small shop for the tasting and sale of products of excellence made in Italy. Even for a young and flexible startup like its almost three months of closure and lack of income are too many and therefore fear not to make it, with the result that both are out of work. The story of these young people is emblematic for the current phase and I believe that we must keep it in mind for the answers we are called to give in this House, because the resources that we will go to allocate tomorrow with the vote will be burdened precisely and above all on young people like Daniela and Francesco and their children. Predicting a budgetary deviation of 55 billion euros, as we are going to do, does not mean anything more than indebting our country and, therefore, adding additional burdens to that mountain of debt that already makes us the third country in the world for public debt. It is clear and out of the question that there are not many alternatives, and colleagues from the opposition all in all agree that there is an absolute need for this kind of extraordinary maneuver, because it serves to give hope back to the country. Even the most optimistic estimates suggest figures to shake the wrists: a sharp reduction in GDP, an increase in unemployment, a skyrocketing increase in the deficit-GDP ratio. It is therefore impossible to avoid resorting to greater indebtedness, first of all to be at the side of families such as Daniela and Francesco, so that they can face the present, but at the same time guaranteeing a future for their children; to be at the side of those additional millions of Italians who have lost their jobs because of the coronavirus or are preparing to lose it, and also to allow many companies - it is estimated that one third of the small and medium-sized enterprises will have difficulty in reopening once the lockdown is unlocked - to be able to survive. However, we must bear in mind that it will be the new generations who will be called upon to pay the costs and consequences of the decisions taken today and, therefore, these resources must be spent at best. We can't afford to waste. Our children don't deserve to see their future mortgaged because of bottomless black holes. For this reason, first of all, we cannot feed a system aimed at mere subsistence, in which everyone lives or expects to live for assistance. There is no doubt that we must take care of the more than 9 million poor people who are already struggling to reach the end of the month, but one-off aid is provided for deprived people allocated by the municipalities and not subsidies paid out through the INPS. The municipal social services know the individual situations of need and can intervene in a wise and surgical way, so as to buffer emergent situations, without the squandering of money in rain, destined only to increase the waste. On the contrary, resources must be invested to stimulate growth. It is our duty to create conditions for people to be given the opportunity to start working again and to produce income. The pandemic has turned people's health and life upside down: now we must avoid blowing up the productive fabric of our country. That is why the public yards must be quickly unlocked, so that huge resources can be set in motion and in circulation, creating jobs, as well as the economy, in order to prevent a myriad of companies from failing. Everything must be done with ambition: to try to transform the crisis into opportunities, in an attempt to make our country better, with a greater use of technological resources, with a more widespread use of smart working, with greater respect for the environment and renewable energies, with more sustainable mobility, with less bureaucracy, with a fairer distribution between the genres of working and family times. Luckily, we have an ally, that much-criticized Europe. It is thanks to the European Union that we can borrow billions of cheap resources to finance the necessary investments, whether it is with the Sure Fund (Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency), whether it is with the European Stability Mechanism, with the European Investment Bank's loans or in a second phase with the recovery fund. These are all steps that are strategic in order to get us out of the crisis and without which Italy would probably have already ended legs to the air, because otherwise we would never have gotten as many credits on such advantageous conditions. Then we have a great challenge before us: to us the opportunity to take it. The funds that we make available today with the Document under discussion must be used above all to promote growth and development. The possibility of fulfilling those dreams of Daniela and Francis (dreams in the immediate future) is at stake, but above all of the future, not only of Mattia, but also of our children and children like them, citizens of tomorrow. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Zanda]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u70	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u71	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, there are facts in the path we face and in the numbers that must surely direct the content of our debate to the level of arguments and role. Today we must express our views on the Economic and Financial Document and on the budgetary deviation, which will then be sent to the Council of the European Union and the European Commission. Already here there are obligatory and logical passages in the debate that must commit us. It has been said very clearly by Minister Gualtieri, in the hearing of the Commissions in the joint Senate and Chamber on this subject, that, due to the emergency Covid-19, the scenarios on which we express today are limited to the period 2020-2021, for an amount of 55 billion euros. We have two fundamental emergencies: liquidity, to allow the country to overcome this moment and to be able to discuss the future - otherwise we do not even start the discussion - and health emergency. Then we go to the European Council. There is a very close connection with Europe, just as there has been with the previous 25 billion, which - do we want to make political controversy? - it was very clear that they were bound to a certain emergency, while the other measures (tourism bonuses and anything else) would be dealt with later. First question: it is essential to be within the framework of a European negotiation if we are to live up to it. Neither tertium nor secundum is given. Without Europe, debt will not be sustainable. I have heard opposition colleagues conjuring up a grant. How are we going to finance it? This is where politics comes into play, the political role that can be played in Europe. Of course, we have not started very well, but we cannot deny that a number of results have been obtained, to which they will surely have to follow others; but the results have been obtained with the primacy of politics, over which our country has played a fundamental role. Building alliances with those with whom you make an axis, moving positions - I am thinking of a start of shifting Germany's position - is important. Does it help or doesn't it help? Compared to this a country finds its unity. The analogy with the nearest period for difficulties, that of the Second World War, has been cited several times, and it has been said that it is more dignified to resort to analogies with the ways in which it was reconstructed in the postwar period. Senator Zanda rightly called us to a central role of Parliament and politics. I would like to mention two examples: the first is the famous speech that Alcide De Gasperi gave at the Paris Peace Conference, in which Italy presented itself in a very difficult position and had to deal with the conditions of sanctions. Certainly he did not make an isolationist speech and uttered the famous sentence: By taking the word in this world assembly I feel that everything, except your personal courtesy, is against me. And he got a lot - as we know - of course not isolating himself. I'm still asking for a minute and a half, no more. The second comparison concerns the constituent Assembly: in 1947, due to the known world balances, representatives of the social-communist political party were expelled from post-war governments; this did not prevent that in our country, while there was a strong political and even international contrast, all worked together for the Constitutional, presided over by Umberto Terracini, who - by chance - was a communist. We must therefore look at these examples as the height of Parliament. Minister Gualtieri has said very clearly, listing them, what are the immediate measures: automaticism for the autonomous bonus in twenty-four hours; discussion on a lost fund or something similar for small and medium-sized enterprises; postponement of the sugar and plastic tax; provision of 3.5 billion in favour of municipalities, provinces, metropolitan cities and so on. There is talk of 6 billion per year until 2031 for the recovery for incentives and investments. Then here is the subject of debate. If emergencies continue to be liquidity, enhancement, health review and investment for the economy, the role we want to play in public policies and the state comes into play. I conclude by saying that I do not want to abuse your courtesy and that of this House. So in this restart - I say this without controversy - how much Parliament and all political forces are willing to question pre-emergency convictions pandemic? We are talking about health and the resources to be put on health; of course, more, but how many are willing to call into question models of privatisation of health? When it comes to territories, of course we are not talking about reopening small hospitals, perhaps with little competence. We are talking about a territorial network that needs a regional government or, in any case, a public government. How willing are we to re-examine models of economic Darwinism to "each for himself and God for all" - I speak with respect - and models that exalted flat tax? If we had the flat tax today, would we be discussing resources available to the state? When it comes to the role of the State, the difference is between the State providing, which does not have a strategy, and a State running, supporting, directing and maintaining cohesion. These are the conditions for rewriting our future. On this we play a restart and we must live up to this type of debate, certainly each with his own ideas, knowing that a change is not necessary, but it is indispensable. This means that we must measure ourselves in order to claim the centrality and dignity of Parliament, which also pass through the standing of our propositions. [[Applause from Senators Boldrini and Leone.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u72	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u73	Mr President, the economic and financial document under discussion gives us the image of a country on its knees. The Italy that produces is living its darkest hour and we have a duty to give you concrete answers. I say this to the majority: we are tired of press conferences, tired of direct Facebook, meetings with experts and task forces and above all tired of making proposals without being heard. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The time has expired and it is necessary to give concrete answers to the Italians immediately. President Conte continues to repeat, perhaps to convince himself, that he would do exactly what he has done and then I think it is fair to say clearly, without having to fear for this reason being accused of a lack of sense of national unity, that what we have witnessed was a long sequence of decisions taken with extreme delay, which led us to where we are. The government has been and is lagging behind on practically everything; late in recognizing the severity of the health emergency; late in the supply of personal protective equipment, the famous masks; late in the tampons; late in starting the lockdown and deciding to end it; late in responding to the serious economic crisis in progress and even late in the decree that we have been waiting for a month now. Perhaps Palazzo Chigi is too engaged in the authentic interpretation of the word "conjoint" to realize that hundreds of thousands of activities are likely to close their doors. The DEF takes pictures of GDP falling by 8% and unemployment rising by more than two percentages. These estimates even appear optimistic, when compared with those of the Parliamentary Budget Office, which expects GDP to fall by 15%, and those of the International Monetary Fund, which estimates a 3% increase in unemployment. But we no longer need numerical data to understand in this House that each of us represents a hard-earned people, who cry out to us every day for their pain. You asked the Italians to stay in the house and they respected the rules by showing sense of institutions and patriotic love. They have done so even at the price of enormous sacrifices, while on our coasts, on the Sicilian coasts in particular, they have continued to land ships of immigrants. You asked the Italians not only to get away from their affections, but also to close shops, businesses and businesses. You have severely fined the few violators of the rules and meanwhile, under the excuse of the Coronavirus, the Minister of Justice Bonafede has allowed several mob bosses to leave the prison. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] That's right! It is surreal and scandalous, if we think that the mob, and generally organized crime, is speculating even more on the poor people in times of crisis. In contexts like this, phenomena such as usury and predatory offerings are multiplied by activities that, in order to make a living, are forced to sell out. LICHERI (M5S). Come on! GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). In his umpteenth night show, President Conte informed the Nation of the extension of the closure of many business activities throughout the month of May. This is equivalent to writing a death sentence for them. Of the March decree the Italians saw little or nothing; almost a million self-employed are still waiting for the 600 euro bonus. VAT parties and freelancers were humiliated: those who received something received less than the beneficiaries of citizenship income. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The April bonus has not yet arrived and in May it is even thought to further reduce the audience of the beneficiaries. But you don't say that. The same applies to the non-achieving redundancy fund which has left a number of categories of workers undiscovered. Also the so-called liquidity decree, which the Government should have called "decree loans to be repaid with interest," is a flop: it had to facilitate the issue of loans by banks to companies, but it turned out to be a hole in the water. Even funding of up to EUR 25,000 has been hindered - and still are - by long and complex procedures. The investigation, which according to the promises of the Government would have been simple and fast, is practically the ordinary one. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] I understand colleagues are a little sorry for what I'm saying, but I have to say it. Dozens of documents are required on the accounting situation; yet, it is understood that companies are actually those that were already experiencing a situation of difficulty that has become more acute with the current crisis, and therefore it is paradoxical. Small entrepreneurs armed with good will have been paralyzed by bureaucratic pastimes; the State is humiliating them by forcing them to do the task. This is unacceptable, so I do not want to go around it: we need money now, directly on the company's bank account, through tax compensation. It is necessary to guarantee liquidity to companies, which must not be forced to pass by banks. Only with this objective can the request for further budgetary deviation be accepted. We have been saying this since the emergency began, but only now has Minister Patuanelli started talking about lost resources. Let us be clear: those resources will serve to restart our economy; let us begin to consider them a real investment. The sooner the government understands that and the sooner the economic recovery begins. Let me also make a passage on the South, far from the rest of the country and which, with the current crisis, will increase its economic and social distress. The Government continues to look at the resources destined to the Mezzogiorno with the water in its mouth, and a document from Palazzo Chigi assumes to use them to cover the next decree. I hope that these options are already set aside because, if they are not, there will be a real rip-off against the Mezzogiorno. We're not gonna let it be cashed out at the expense of the southerners. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The South cannot pay for the crisis and cannot become the government's ATM.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u74	Senator, you need to finish your surgery. He's over two minutes in time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u75	GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). A very last consideration: I expected a word from Minister Di Maio about China, a word that did not come, unfortunately, despite the responsibilities of that country in the pandemic are enormous. I think it will soon be too late for this government, which is not giving concrete answers to the country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u76	Colleagues, with respect to the intervention of Senator Giammanco, I remind you that, in our organization of the work, the speakers can no longer speak from the place where they are located, but must go down to the places that have been destined and defined by our Quaestors. Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u77	Mr President, I believe that there is something that cannot be refuted in this debate, namely that this is the most expansive and courageous manoeuvre since the post-war period. I believe that at least no one in this House can say a word about this. That is right, and it is right that a European effort should be linked to this manoeuvre. On this, too, with honesty, we must admit that, after an indulging and superficial approach, there has been an adequate European response. Those who today are still critics of Europe think about what we would be today if there were no daily action by the European Central Bank to buy our securities. I too am in favour of turning the ECB into a loan bank of last resort that prints money, but it takes two or three years to do this - we tell the citizens - because it is necessary to change the Statute of the ECB. Do we wait three years to give answers to citizens? We stress the importance of the action of this ECB today and stress the importance that the European Commission has suspended the Stability Pact and allows us to do the financial operations of debt burdening. Let us point out that the European Council - not taken for granted - has decided to make a European plan for reconstruction, thanks also to the ability of the Government to make alliances in Europe. The European Commission is now called upon to give immediate answers and I say this firmly: we cannot wait until January 2021; the multiannual budget can of course be approved and goes into force in 2021, but we need to find - and there is - an instrument to anticipate funding from next June. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] The European Commission must give an answer on the quantum - we are to have a plan of 1,500 billion - and also on the types, i.e. on which sectors we are going to finance for reconstruction. Here is the whole talk about digital, telemedicine, education, research, science, as well as traditional sectors. This is the picture, if we want to be honest and I think it's in our conscience to be honest. It does not seem to me that there are reasonable alternatives, but I am here to listen and possibly to act in a cohesive manner. I don't think this is the time of the truths possessed and even less than those sold as if they were truth. The government has had an essential merit, and I say this to the undersecretary Misiani: he has assumed his responsibilities and acted; in my opinion and in the opinion of the Democratic Party Group he has acted well. Now we must move forward, with Parliament re-appropriating its functions - and I subscribe, word for word, to Senator Zanda's magisterial intervention - and with a collaborative tension of all and I say all, including those who belong to the Government and those who are in opposition. They're giving up their own partisan gain. If you know how to listen to the deep mood of the country, the country tells us this. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u78	She is registered to speak Senator Borgonzoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u79	Mr President, before I begin my speech, which will be linked to culture, which has embarrassed me a series of speeches which I have heard in this House by the majority, which appears to be confused, sometimes, and seems to be opposition, as if it is not its specificity to pursue the measures it is telling us because it seems like we are rejecting what it wants. I was also embarrassed to hear about the centrality of Parliament. Is Parliament central to you? It seems to me that we have a President-in-Office of the Council who also decides on the heads of many who are mostly what is being done and what is not being done. He's coming here to tell us what he already said on television. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Malan]] The centrality of Parliament, yes, should be there, but it is lacking, so whoever asks for it is going to knock on the door of President Conte that centrality does not recognize this Parliament because we, in this House, represent the people who voted for us, and not just ourselves, and we should have respect on the part of Count and all of you. I am sorry to see that even in the DEF culture has a centrality of zero, as we Members of Parliament do. No way, Count doesn't talk about it. I could now talk about it, telling you how important it is, how much Italian culture makes an opinion more than all other cultures in the world. I could tell you how we are known in other states precisely for our culture, for the many differences that there are and that we see in festivals, in demonstrations, in everything that our culture tells. But I want to talk, to be more pragmatic, about numbers. I am sorry that President Pittoni is not here because I would suggest that he convene a meeting of the Commission to call the President of the Council and all those in this House who are trying to help little such an important sector. If I am thinking also of the amendments that have been tabled, if the League Group is excluded, the other groups have certainly not spent much time pointing out the amendments relating to culture. The cultural and creative sector has one and a half million employees. In addition to direct revenues, if we consider the induced, we reach 256 billion: almost 17% of GDP. Perhaps this is not clear to you because, if it had been clear to you, you would not have rejected the amendments we talked about and perhaps the subject would be much more central in the debate, especially because culture is also fundamental for the revival of tourism. Since we often talk about young people - I think young people should be in the thoughts of all of us - and when we write the measures, we talk about young people, I would like to remind you that in the world of culture one in four is under thirty-five and more than 50% of the workers are under forty-four years old. We have to think about what we want to do with culture. We need to think about whether we want to give culture to someone else or start devoting our time, commitment and funds to it. It is not enough a hundred million to think that everything is going well because, when we talk about culture, we talk about so many things. The funds must be allocated. We have now tabled another amendment because we need at least 800 million. We would need a lot more - we know that, and we should all know that in this House - but at least those should be delivered immediately to those companies and to those people who work in the world of culture and entertainment. We had tabled an amendment calling for all those working in that world to be equal to small and medium-sized enterprises, so that they could have the same aid and the same reductions, which is not possible today because the sector has been forgotten. To give an example of how little is in everyone's head what revolves around culture and art, I remind you the restoration companies have been removed from the Ateco codes, have not been included among those that can start now, even if they are linked to private works and public works. The yards start again, but those were kept out because no one thought about it. When it comes to culture and art, no one thinks about it, because it is probably believed in this House that culture and art concern only people who deal with it as hobbies or are very rich, forgetting all those small authors who - let us think about copyright - earn 10,000 euros a year with SIAE. Nobody thought about those people. No one has thought about how to restart film productions. We will ask for the art bonus to be extended to all festivals and events, at least now. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are in danger of handing over the country - and, when I say we, in fact, I mean you, because we would take different measures - to the multinationals, the Chinese and the people who come with the money and can buy what is there, or - even worse - in the hands of the mob. I hope you're not aware of it and start thinking about it. It happens in Romagna, as in many parts of Italy: there are complaints of prefects who say that people show up with suitcases full of money to buy hotels - but this happens with all the activities - saying: today I give you 100, if you sell it in a month I give you 50, in three months I give you a third. We really need to start thinking about the activities, giving them liquidity and defending a people who, after paying taxes - we and our grandparents, we have always paid taxes - and would like to start working again, is on their knees and must flatter money and go get them from the mob. That's why you should all be ashamed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Start thinking about it and taking serious action, otherwise it's all your fault. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u80	She's registered to speak Senator Minuto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u81	Mr President, our country is experiencing a crisis so great that it can be compared - as someone has already said today - to the post-war crisis. It will take many years to emerge from the crisis that will mark the lives not only of us, but above all those of future generations, of our children. Today we are faced with great problems and, therefore, we ask the State, all those who give us directives today - to give great answers to the Italians. The maneuver we are going to put in place is about EUR 55 billion: we are talking about 10 billion and more financial maneuvers put together. The question I ask myself is: if we do such a big debt, what will the resources do? Explain this to us, because we do not yet know anything or know very little. [[Applause from Senator De Vecchis]] Believe me, I say this without any controversy. The country has stopped, including the Mezzogiorno that already suffered before and today, with the pandemic, risks being overwhelmed. I hope that the investments that will be made will be in line with the real expectations of the Mezzogiorno. Why do I say that? What has unfortunately happened in the past must not happen again. We witnessed interventions that were the opposite of what our South needed. With the measures taken, the opposite has been done and money has been spent on other things. Therefore, if we have the opportunity to use the funds made available by the European Commission or those that will come from the new instruments that the European Council will have, we will have to take them all, of course on the assumption that they are not detrimental to the country's system. We have an obligation not to root even more deeply existing inequalities and we must not burden citizens with an inconvenience that can be reduced. The state of uncertainty to which families and children are subjected is worrying. The pandemic has taught us that our country is experiencing an important technological deficit. I used to listen to a senator I value very much, but, unfortunately, the reality is not that. In our Region the Miur has made available 140,000 euros that, distributed in municipalities and schools, become little less than 8,000-9,000 euros. This means crumbs compared to the real need of our children: to do didactics, you need tools such as iPad computers, printers. Excuse me if I too, today, I quote some people, of whom I read some writings and some sentences. Francesca writes to me: "I have 6 children. My husband has felt unemployment up to this month. I lost my job because of a lack of construction sites. However, my family and I live at my mother's, who receives 500 euros of pension. We support, every two months, bills equal to 300 euros. Those of the condominium and of the water amount to 150. To all this add, please, - they write to me - what can be used for a family with children. And what's more serious is to pay for the school's expenses, because I can't keep up, because of computers, tablets, the whole technology system, Internet spending. So, it's impossible for me to do that. Then he texted me, and he made a joke, on Facebook: Say that Italy is getting old, that it is an old country and you ask us to have children. Good. I'm six, but I can't live with it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] From this great tragedy we learn that, from now on, the state must remedy this technological deficit. We have to do this today. In addition, I would like to point out to you that teachers must be properly prepared. Many are unable, out of charity, not because of their fault, to make formation at a distance. The government would have done well to allocate funds only for the training of all trainers. And I come here to what made me suffer most these days: I am talking about small and medium-sized enterprises. We have to intervene soon: they have rents, loans to pay, while the activities are inactive. The sanatoria regulations are at odds with real life. I repeat: the regulations are at odds with real life. I think, for example, of the pizza maker, who will halve the seats in his premises and, as a result, will collect less, not to be able to cover the operating costs, after having still fired his own staff, who will in turn become unemployed. The state today has to meet this need by providing liquidity. The state must work with public interventions, give oxygen to the fabric that makes our country alive. Let me remind you that 70% of small and medium-sized enterprises form our territory. We have tabled an amendment, ladies and gentlemen, which was not an amendment by Senator Minuto or an amendment by the Forza Italia Group. It was an amendment that talked about liquidity to be given to those types of companies, which had already extended a credit line with the banks and therefore were not moratories. And if that kind of small business is given a minimum of oxygen, if these companies, which had a credit of 100, are given a credit of 150, today they have the shutter closed, but tomorrow they will reopen and get back on their feet. Even that amendment, which, I repeat, was not mine and was not part of the Forza Italia Group, but it was an amendment that responded to what the territory asked for, you rejected it, as well as that of the thick ones: you also rejected that of the thick ones, gentlemen, presented because, at that time, people, if the first month had managed to pay, after it failed. People are exhausted. What's going on? I'm gonna tell you, the disputes are already starting. The landlords will claim, after the pandemic is over, to have the thick ones. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Minuto, I invite you to conclude. MINUTE (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr. President. So, the landlords will ask for what was not paid them and, at that time, the disputes will begin. What are we gonna do here? Shall we leave the judges and the magistrates to settle this matter? It's wrong. It is here that the State today must not and cannot afford to stop: it must decide and impose; on the contrary, the State must be able to solve the problem today. We gave oxygen to the banks through the state and today the banks have a duty to soften towards the entrepreneurs. In this case too, the State must regulate and must not override others. President. - The debate is closed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Conclude! Colleagues, I've done four counts: if it's okay, the general discussion ends after 9:00 p.m. and then there's the reruns. MINUTE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to ask you a moment. Please, because these days we've all suffered a little bit. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Stay at 9:00 anyway. I would also like to conclude your speech. MINUTE (FIBP-UDC). I would like to read to you what Mrs Morena writes, who from March 10, for the decree, decides to spontaneously close the aesthetic center: I do so for a sense of responsibility and attachment to the State. I'll stay home, as per the decree. Days pass, but I get my bills. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Finish or I'm forced to turn off the microphone. I authorize you to deposit the text. MINUTE (FIBP-UDC). I'll finish. To the lady who had this aesthetic center the other day the accountant said: prepare to close. I cried for a whole day. Where are the funds? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Cioffi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u82	Mr President, we are talking a long time and talking about this budgetary deviation which, as we all know, cubes EUR 55 billion. The budgetary deviation should find - I believe - all the parliamentarians, but more, all the representatives of the institutions, but more, all the citizens cohesive in understanding that this action that the Government and the institutions must do must find us all rowing on the same side. In 1835 Giuseppe Mazzini defined the Nation as a group of people who recognize the same principle and set out under the escort of a common right to the attainment of the same purpose. Perhaps we should start from what it means to be a nation, from what it means to belong to a national community to understand what we have before us and the action that the Government must take. When, for example, we talk about this deviation, we know that the government is taking on the burden of further debt to the next generations. It is a very strong burden because, for example, I, like so many of us, have small children and, when I look at them, I think they will have an even bigger debt. Perhaps we should also consider how to cushion this impact towards future generations. One might think of systems based on temporal progressiveness, in line with Article 53 of the Constitution. When we hear that the European Union has provided for the suspension of the Stability and Growth Pact, we should ask the European Union that this suspension not last a year or two, but the time it takes to deal with the crisis and to bring liquidity into the system to ensure that economic growth is real, real and lasting. As far as the ECB is concerned, we could not talk about amending its Statute, as was mentioned earlier. The Statute of the ECB must be amended to include full employment policies. This means making the ECB the lender of last resort, in parallel with what the Fed already does. These things, however, could not be said, because they seemed like heresy until this damn coronavirus arrived. This is an incredible moment what we have to face; it is the moment when the national community has to cling to the action that the state has to do for its citizens. Citizens and institutions must be united; they must vibrate with the same intensity and note. This must be done first and foremost by those who sit in Parliament. It is we who most of all have to do this action. Let's see what's going on. As for the price of oil, you have seen that futures on WTI oil have fallen; oil is shrinking, to -37 dollars only on May supplies. Today it has risen by 34 percent and now, according to the latest data, it is at 17 dollars. This makes us understand that we must move towards a different system, that of renewable sources. Let us remember that Italy imports 85% of primary sources from abroad, so what we do is an action to relaunch the national industry, which must start from its excellences, from its great capacities. There must no longer be companies that were world leaders in some technologies, such as the Stirling heat pumps, which have been sold abroad: this must no longer happen. Let's see what happens with the supply chain block, i.e. value transmission chains. The decoupling, the temporal breakdown of the virus has produced enormous contractions, because some pieces are produced outside our country. We need to rethink an industrial strategy and we have seen it on a small subject, which was fundamental, such as that of masks that were no longer produced in Italy. Here, we must rethink these systems, also understand that the temporal, albeit minimal, shift between Italy and Germany, for example, leads to imbalances, because, for example, the German car industry Volkswagen, which has 650,000 employees, has as subcontracting the Italian companies, which serve the German industry. Well, we have to understand these things. We need to understand what people's problems are, which is the fundamental point. Several people have a lot of problems: retail, restaurants, hotels, services to people. In a situation like the previous one, in which there was a very strong social distress, in which social justice has been abandoned by the last thirty years of prevailing neoliberalism, this virus has only increased and amplified the political one. A wrong policy, because, as we all know, the misalignment of percentages between the richest and the poorest in the United States has exploded. This explosion has been contained in Europe, but social distances have increased, so we have to start from there. The citizenship income we have introduced has restored the concept of a state that takes care of citizens, starting from the last because that is where we have to start. It is moving in this direction as well as the emergency income, which is an extension of it. We have to start from there. We must do what other countries have done: we must not give money to companies based in tax havens. We know that there is a list of countries on the European Union's black list: it is not complete, we have to work, we have to understand that there are also intra-Community tax havens, but we will work on it, because now we can talk about this too in Europe. Before you couldn't talk about it, it sounded like heresy. This is an incredible moment, when you can really do those things you thought were right, but we have to do it if we're all together. If, on the other hand, there are those who say one thing and those who say another, we give an absolutely wrong impression to Europe, which must see Italy as a moloch, as a strong and cohesive group, as a single state, as the others do. It's not hard. We need to learn to be cohesive. We know that neoliberal logics have produced great inequalities, there is no need for me to tell you what happened; just read the report of the head of the economic and statistical department of the Bank of Italy when we talked about austerity, which tells us that today the economy will need an adequate period of support and relaunch, during which restrictive fiscal policies would be counterproductive. They woke up a little late, but they woke up; maybe they started to understand it. We need to figure out what happened. There are some very interesting analyses from which we could start. For example, we could remember how much the income from work has spread from the income from capital; it is not that I say it, says an American consulting company, which explains this decoupling very well. We have to think of a society in which finance is less prevalent than the economy, because it is the economy that saves us, it is the economy that makes the masks, it is the economy that makes the breathers, it is the economy that produces the things. Finance must support the economy, not the other way around. Perhaps we could talk about this too, about how strategic it is to think and reason on these issues. There is one issue on which we could perhaps work and which I would like to put to everyone's attention. Perhaps we should take into consideration what Wassily Leontief, a famous Nobel Prize-winning economist, taught us in 1973; he explained to all economists what input-output matrixes are. Perhaps we could start from there, from that thought, from those matrix with which we can understand things: for example, we can understand how much Italy depends from abroad on a series of productive sectors or on a series of strategic minerals. I would like to remind you that Europe depends on China for 85% of imports of rare earths and rare earths are the basis of technological innovation and renewable energy; perhaps we should understand these things. But with those matrixes, if they are implemented, improved and expanded (currently Istat makes them), we can understand the interconnections between vertical sectors, to understand that the output of a company can become the input of another company. If we cross this data, we can imagine a different world and that's what we have to do. I repeat, however, that there is only one way: we must all work to ensure that Italy plays a fundamental role, also in contrast to those old policies that have been detrimental to Europe and to other countries around the world. If Italy does this and if we all do it together, well, we'll be able to do things. If we continue to divide, Europe will not understand and we will not change Europe and, if it does not change Europe, I cannot understand what we could do. We have to do this, we all have to do it together, we have to be compact, cohesive, strong and determined; the citizens are asking for it, and we must all commit ourselves to it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u84	Mr President, illustrious colleagues, the DEF, which is being brought to our attention today, clearly highlights the model of the national community that is being achieved. The situation we are experiencing has become an opportunity for this Government to put its hand, without any control of Parliament, on the economic future of Italy and, above all, on the fundamental freedoms of its citizens. Today, the Government sets out its economic and financial objectives. What goals? Let us think of the Mezzogiorno: once again nothing, in concrete terms. After all, what could we expect from a government made up of characters who for an armchair are ready to say and do exactly the opposite of what they promised voters? We must thank the director of Telenorba, Magistà, for unveiling the shameful plan to suspend the effects of Law No 18 of 2017, in order to take away 21 billion euros from the southern citizens, equivalent to 34% of ordinary resources. But was it not Europe that had to secure the financial resources to deal with the crisis? Of course, now we will try to delete all traces of this document and perhaps it will be said that it was a machination of the deviant secret services. The truth is that Count and his court are selling out the Italians' dream of having the hope of a better future. All fundamental freedoms have been suspended, but the desire for power of this Government has not been suspended, which has led to some scandalous appointments in public economic societies, without any comparison, proposing names until a few days ago considered exploitable. What happened in the dark secrets of Palazzo Chigi? Any calls from Beijing? All this not to mention the unnecessary appointment of 450 experts, divided into an unspecified number of task forces. How much does this task force cost to the citizens? To do what? Just to take responsibility for the government and hide its inability. A shame, a trick! Then when it comes to solving the concrete problems of the citizens, the government shows all its inability and, worse still, its disinterest. Where is the money for the integration fund and why have not all the famous 600 euros for VAT matches been paid to date? The truth is that we are faced with a scandalous and hypocritical plan for the occupation of power, by a group of arrivalists, titled and not, who even through the voidness of this DEF show that they are a danger to the economic future of Italy. The government, in order to hide its responsibilities, has laid the blame on the citizens, aiding the Forces of order, imposing self-certifications and shameful and unconstitutional fines. Someone will have to account for all this! The hope is that free men, including Parliament, will finally be able to unite, to send home this government that is incapable and hypocritical and to give back to all citizens the freedom not to have to live in a squalid and mortifying "Great Brother." [[Applause from Senators Rizzotti and Zaffini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are still facing a stage of health emergency and we are all aware, all the more in the light of the Economic and Financial Document, that we are already in the presence of an economic emergency. The risk - I think I am right to say this - is that from this health emergency, which is transformed into an economic emergency, is born for our country - and only for our country in the European Union - a constitutional emergency, as I believe we have all understood from the words and alarm launched yesterday by the President of the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, we are also in the presence of a constitutional emergency, which can lead to the collapse of our country's institutions in front of a government that tells us that this is the most important document of economy and finance since the post-war period in the absence, plastically visible in this House, in the benches of the Council of Ministers: there was no Minister here in the Chamber, during today's debate, delegate the issue - as if it were the meeting of a municipal council for ordinary administration - to a Undersecretary who listens, on behalf of everyone and in a distracted way. We are also in the presence of a document of economy and finance, at a stage of this enormousness, which does not address the issues that it would have had to face, namely the scenario that the country is preparing to face, because it is limited exclusively to a trend forecast in the current year, already compromised, and in the year 2021, already affected. It does not tell us, even tendentially, what could happen, as a future scenario, and moreover, it totally lacks the programmatic part. It is as if the government were symbolically represented by an army Brancaleone, which goes on I do not know where and I do not know how, without scenario and without any program traced of the road to go. Do you realize the conditions under which the country and its constitutional bodies are being brought to? You, who spoke of parliamentary citizens and who thought that one was worth one, to the point of telling the country that any decision would be taken by referendum listening to the number one citizens of the Rousseau platform, and that today you turn, emptying Parliament, exclusively to the task forces of 500 supposedly competent who decide for everyone, for the citizens and for the Parliament and therefore also for the Government? Do you realize the paradox that is leading to the collapse, not only economic, but institutional of the country? I say this in the face of the other great democracies, which, on the other hand, have achieved a completely different method. Yesterday in France, a presidential Republic like the United States, under whose Presidency of the Republic are extraordinary powers because it is elected directly by the people, the Premier spoke to Parliament, to obtain its consent before planning the reopening and economic measures. In the United States, the vilified President Trump, who can decide with a tweet, instead confronts the Democratic Party on the decisive measures (2,200 billion dollars, then 2,800 billion) that are unanimously decided by Congress. On the other hand, you are absent even when Parliament has a duty to confront the Government. This situation is particularly serious in the light of what is already happening. I would not like Members of the majority to be caught up in Stockholm syndrome, to the extent that they are painting the European institutions today, just as they are preparing themselves, as a safeguard for our country, without realizing that they are already prisoners of Stockholm and, like those who were hostages in Stockholm, eventually become so involved themselves that they justify their kidnappers, their jailers, indeed our kidnappers, our jailers. Certainly Europe has allowed states to get into debt and, with the latest decisions taken yesterday by the European Commission, out of 1,800 billion (I am going by heart and I might be wrong) already authorised for states, 55% is money that has allowed Germany to spend on defence and support for German companies. That is to say that of the authorized expenditure of the individual states, Germany was allowed to spend 55% of the amount, France 20% and Italy 10%. This tells us a huge thing: that the European Union, knowingly or unknowingly, is already acting in practice, for the timing and the way in which it takes action, to increase and not reduce the gap within the European Union between those who can (Germany and the countries of the North bloc) and those who cannot. It is all the opposite of what the European Union should do in the face of the reasons why it was born. This is even more serious if we think that the European Union is based on the principles of market freedom, competition and the internal market. If we hold together the principles of the internal market and competition and allow an actor, Germany, and its companies, and then the other countries of the North and their companies to strengthen just as we are weakening, the gap increases and is set to increase due to the delays of the European Union which are at this point spotted. In fact, the European Union's delays in activating instruments that will also enable Italy to act in a timely manner to the aid of its companies in fact represent a very serious competitive advantage that Germany acquires by supporting its companies when we cannot do so, with all that follows in the coming years for the internal market, for the freedom of enterprise, for the right to competition within the common European home. That is why it seems to me that it is improvised to see your insignia in confronting Parliament and asking Parliament for a unanimous decision, which we would also give on the budgetary deviation, because it is necessary, because the indication of the march is that. We cannot accept a document of economics and finance that does not tell us where you are going, armed Brancaleone, dragging the country into the economic abyss. This I say with suffering, because up to now - and here the DEF gives some numbers - you have made the decree cure Italy, that we all know that it has not cared for the Italian economy at all; you have drawn up a liquidity decree, paradox of paradoxes, without liquidity; you are preparing to issue a decree April (little ago came the news), that it will not be launched in April but in May. Do you realize what you're doing? All this does not realize that the two productive assets that have allowed Italy to resist - badly, because we are the only European country that has not yet recovered the serious crisis determined by 2008 and we are not yet at the levels of 2007, we have not made it, while even Greece is coming to us and we are not - the two assets that have kept the country up in recent years, as a consequence of the crisis of 2008, have been tourism and export and the two assets affected by this crisis are mainly tourism and export. It is as if, skipped the Morandi bridge in Genoa, skipped the Morandi bridge of Italy. To the answer for Genoa you have arrived with an emergency decree, to the collapse of the "bridge Morandi" of Italy of 'export and tourism you have to answer rebuilding the bridge in a national emergency, to be discussed in Parliament for the level that it must have. At that point, Parliament can take responsibility for this. This is also missing today; we regret it not so much for us and for the Italians, but much for ours and your children, who will pay for your selfishness and ignorance. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u87	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u88	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the outbreak caused by the Covid-19 has dramatically changed the life of Italians and the country's economic prospects. The Economic and Finance Document under consideration is the main programming document for economic and budgetary policy, which outlines, from a medium to long-term perspective, the commitments and other policy objectives envisaged by the Government for the current year and for the next three years. Within the DEF 2020, which we consider a slim plan, which does not enter into the programmatic detail in a satisfactory way and without any real creation of opportunities, we find, with regard to environmental issues, investment voices put in place today to support the ecological transition desired by the European green deal, to which Italy - we read - would like to follow up. On the other hand, however, we find evidence of higher revenue and lower expenditure, which seems to be driven, rather than by environmental reasons, by purely financial reasons and by the adjustment of the deficit and the deviation. The environment is protected and saved through progress, innovation, development, work and actions to restart after the emergency should be an opportunity to achieve a true economic and industrial green deal, as well as liberalisation for the construction of waste collection, disposal and recycling facilities and the growth of the circular economy. In order to implement the integrated national energy and climate plan, the circular economy and the infrastructure needed to start the country, a serious administrative simplification plan is needed. It is clear that the text presents a basic inability to project itself into a future and real vision for Italian companies, who will not be in a position to work with planning and serenity. We need to create legal conditions for the immediate release of investment in major works. The bridge of Genoa is the clear example of how the sburocratization makes the country able to realize in a short time a work of this magnitude with efficiency and rapid times. After all, however, we cannot ask those who plan to govern this phase by loading top managers on board who even forget many categories of workers in the fateful phase 2. In this document there is nothing to suggest a restart of the country or the creation of new concrete opportunities for businesses, for local authorities, for agriculture, for tourism and much more. We need to support transport and logistics. I would like to say a few words about transport because I have not heard any comments, or at least it did not seem to me to have been made. As for the rationalization plan on the transport system, let's imagine a metro at seven in the morning, in Milan, that in a stop moves 1,000 people: we think we create the conditions to put a yes and a no. Has anyone thought that the transport system must be tripled on trains, subways, buses and everything else? I am addressing this House because it seems to me that I have not heard of it objectively, but we have a block of scientists who are working and we will see what they do. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We will have to put an end to welfare policies that weigh on the budget and do not give perspective, working to facilitate the recruitment of young people and over fifty. So today we are here to approve a text aimed solely and exclusively at the budgetary deviation without any real prospect on the practical side. We need more serious politics, more centrality than Parliament, less bureaucracy, fewer managers and more people with their feet on the ground. Our country needs concrete answers now, or it will be a disaster. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u89	She's registered to speak Senator Rivolta. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u90	Mr President, Covid-19 was born in China and was isolated there on 27 December last year, but the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared the health emergency only on 30 January; on this point we could open an endless debate. Since then many infected, many dead, among these doctors, nurses, pharmacists, many elderly, but also younger people. So much suffering and so much pain for entire communities. I would now like to express my thanks for the Deputy Minister. I thank him not only for his presence, but for his always very respectful attitude these days. Probably the fact of coming from a land so affected, it also changes the attitude a lot. In the face of this event, as violent as it is unknown in the effects and forms of contagion, we have had respect for the enormous weight of the decisions that the Government should have made. However, there have been so many mistakes; some of them have only been politically repugnant. Minorities are asked to cooperate and then the contributions are ignored. But let's return to the chronicle of the first requests for closure by the presidents of the Lombardy and Veneto Regions. The government felt that it was not necessary and even, for members of the PD, the problem was the racism of the League. As the pandemic continues, the urgency is to commission Lombardy and remove health from the regions. This, in my opinion, is a shame: the urgency is to save people's lives, to make sure that the infection stops and that work and normal life can resume. I could tell and highlight all the uncertainties that have delayed the application of effective measures, mistakes have been made and will come a time to analyze them. Let me stress, however, how inappropriate the Premier's statement is, who said that he would do everything again, a sign that he believes he is infallible. In fact we have a proof of this from the careful direction that resumes it in reality mode with studied shots, as a man only in command, dynamic, absorbed, decision-makers. Please return to the dramatic reality, where the timing of the measures is fundamental for those who are ill, for those who have lost their jobs, for those who are losing their activities. If important resources - perhaps not enough - have also been made available to us this morning, we must ensure that the bureaucracy is minimal. Many people no longer have resources and the timing is tight because, despite the measures taken, they still have to make many payments, but they do not have the means. Another suggestion I want to make to the President-in-Office of the Council is that he should confront Parliament, where there are the people's elected representatives, rather than surround himself with numerous task forces, and remind him that with his decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers he will expel and mortify Parliament. Our President of the Senate Alberti Casellati also stressed and complained about this new abnormal practice. Let's go to the measurements. The important figures have been destined to fight first the consequences of the health emergency but, as in every really important crisis, there can be an opportunity to think about the construction of a new country, modern, with a complete digitization that works throughout the national territory. Yesterday - I remind those who are not members of the 5th Commission - we were unable to help the regions, some mayors, because the connection to the House did not work: a situation that in 2020 is really unacceptable. Think of the universities, to create those professionalism that will make it possible to build the architecture of a new, efficient and modern country, equipped with new technologies and with a more streamlined public administration, faster, more ready. People are certainly in emergency, they are desperate and hurt, but they want to start again, they want to have a perspective, they want to rebuild; they are ready and we see it also from many people who in this moment of total closure have said: we are there for Civil Protection. And they have done everything: they have gone to accompany other people, even to put the anti-mosquito pads in the manholes, rather than to distribute masks, to clean monuments and cemeteries. They are people who have put themselves at stake because they believe that the country must go on all together. All these people want to work; our people want to work and start rebuilding the country again. We give these families, these people, these companies and these entrepreneurs the opportunity to do so. But let us not forget at the same time - as has been done - some groups of people still excluded from the measures taken. We cannot forget them because even if few are still worthy of the same attention that others have received. I hope that there will be the utmost seriousness and I invite the Premier and all the majority to take serious consideration of the good people, with effective collaboration with all the minorities, who are rightly bearers of criticism, but above all of many ideas, practical sense and of so much love for this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u91	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u92	Mr President, the DEF that we are called upon to approve today responds to the need for extraordinary measures to ensure that households and businesses are provided with the necessary liquidity and support to deal with the serious economic and social consequences of the epidemiological crisis from Covid-19. The period of serious emergency we are going through will weigh on consumption and investment. According to forecasts, consumption is expected to decline by 7.2 percent this year and gross fixed capital formation is expected to decline by 12.3%. Moreover, this year employee incomes will fall by an average of 5.7%, also due to the massive use of the Integration Fund, and then return to growth in 2021 with an increase of 4.6 percent. The crisis will inevitably affect some types of work, particularly seasonal work and those dependent on forward contracts, resulting in an increase in the unemployment rate up to 11.6 percent in 2020 and up to 11 percent in 2021. The situation we find ourselves in requires an important effort in the immediate on every aspect and in every sector, social and economic health. The Government is committed to this effort by listening to all the requests (and of this I must also acknowledge and thank the undersecretary Misiani, having received direct feedback today), trying to give answers to everyone, companies, workers and workers with the extension of the Cassa Integrazione, the widening of the increase of the allowances to the self-employed, the restorative loss for the decreases in turnover and an emergency income to all those who have remained excluded from the previous measures. Among the novelties announced by the DEF, there is a new decree for a drastic simplification that will affect procurement, construction, trade and controls. At the level of taxation in the DEF, it is also written that the general principles of the return strategy in the debt-to-GDP ratio will, among other things, be the reform of the tax system, based on simplification, fairness and environmental protection. In this regard, we must no longer take into account the profound iniquities of the current tax system which hit ordinary taxpayers, small and medium-sized enterprises, and grant highly favourable tax treatment to multinational web companies. The most important web companies, also in recent weeks of health emergency, due to the limitation of travel and the closure of many economic and commercial activities, have seen even more increase their users and customers. Let's think about Amazon, Netflix and many others. Today's news is that the stock market value of Alphabet's title, Google's holding company, after having confirmed the profits of the first quarter, despite the epidemic, has grown in all the data related to profits and turnover compared to the previous year. Revenue grew by 13 percent, from 36 billion in 2018 to 41 billion in 2019. But our tax system is not adequate to intercept the incomes produced by these giants and therefore to subject them to taxation under the current rules and procedures. The strategy of reducing our public debt indicated in the DEF can no longer include old tax systems covering income or wealth, ranging from increasing direct tax rates to introducing a capital tax, even with forceful levies. As Professor Franco Gallo suggests, in a hearing held in the Chamber in the last parliamentary term and in a more recent contribution to the 24 Hours Sun, it is necessary to think of different forms of taxation that have as their object not the income itself or its surrogate, but other manifestations of contributory capacity or other ways of creating wealth. The Senate Finance Committee, in its examination of the DEF and in the expression of the opinion in the consultative forum, made a remark that it is also an invitation to the Government to take specific measures to introduce, in the tax system, the criterion of the volume of data transferred abroad to digital enterprises as an indicator of turnover for the application of the tax, thus exceeding both the criterion of the economic transaction conveyed by the platform and that of the revenues from advertising. Every day we all produce a huge amount of data that is then transferred over the Internet, in particular on servers located outside the national borders owned by multinational web companies. These data are used for predictive analysis and for the provision of new services and are sometimes sold to third-party companies. Therefore, the data we produce every day are used by those who receive them to realize products and services, so as to generate a profit from which, however, are excluded precisely those that that data had produced them, i.e. the users. The information and data collected by companies providing digital platforms takes on the character of a common good, i.e. an asset that must be protected and safeguarded, or even deterioration. Information flows to the benefit of web multinationals can be an indicator of turnover and taxable volume. This is an innovative idea proposed within our Group by Senator Mantovani, who has also found interest in colleagues from the other majority groups. A proposal that finds similarities in the form of taxation such as Arthur Cordell's bit tax, a tribute that does not affect an index of traditional contributory capacity such as income and wealth, but weighs on the transmission of data as a new way of making wealth. The current tax regime for digital companies such as web tax, although formally correct from the tax point of view, still appears inadequate because they do not take into account those revenues resulting from the provision of data and information provided by users on platforms. Therefore, we are faced with an event that provokes a deep sense of impotence and disorientation but from this crisis we can start a path through which we can reach the reversal of some economic patterns followed so far. This must apply to economic policy in the broadest sense of the term. Today's news is the downgrading of our public debt by Fitch to the brink of so-called trash bonds. According to some comments, the judgment on our debt by the rating agency would reduce if Italy joined the ESM credit line, not so much because the resources made available could help us in the emergency - we all know that these resources are not sufficient - as the accession to the ESM would give this agency the guarantee of external control of the Italian economy. These are the comments that are read today. I appeal to the Government and colleagues of the majority: if other countries have an interest in joining these lines of credit we must allow it especially for those countries that have accompanied us in the last battles in Europe, but we should not access it. After this emergency, we cannot be forced from outside, especially from markets, austerity policies, further cuts in public services, public health services, the increase in tax and contribution pressure on our SMEs. We can no longer pursue restrictive economic policy. We need to change the patterns of economic policy, we need to change the patterns of tax policies, we need to ask more to those who have so far earned so much and have paid nothing: to the great international companies of the web. We must free and free those who have supported our economy so far: small and medium-sized enterprises. All this on the basis of a very simple principle written in our Constitution, article 53, which however has universal value: "everyone is obliged to contribute to public expenditure due to their capacity to contribute". [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u93	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am from Bergamo, Lombardy, on the outpost of the emergency and, as far as I am concerned, the words are zero. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The Premier Conte came to us in the night two days ago, after two months: a quick trip that has managed, if possible, to aggravate even more souls. Not even a greeting to those alpine, artisans, ultras of Atalanta and all the volunteers who in ten days have pulled up a field hospital, and what a hospital! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I bow, then, to the very high dignity of my fellow citizens who have led them never to lose composure, not even in the face of inhuman situations and you know what I mean. There is still so much missing from us: there are no aids, there are no swabs for families with the sick in the house, support for the sanitary of the territory - very important - that beg shirts and masks, pharmacists, civil protection of the territory that has not seen a euro coming from the central one, they pay for the gasoline they put in the vehicles and make themselves disinfectant. We miraculously managed to remove excise duties from alcohol. For all those who have continued to work to guarantee us the essential services, we need concrete recognitions and not special thanks. And there is no real support for our businesses, which are the employers, because without work you die like with the coronavirus. And enough with such imprecise and confused decrees, where answers to frequently asked questions, FAQs, become a source of law, perhaps according to what Confucius said: If you can't convince them, confuse them. It will not be okay if we do not understand how to balance the balance that brings the health problem on one plate and on the other the economic issue to work for the restart. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I hope you can do two things at the same time: will you be able to manage the restart of activities less risky than those more risky, like those artisans, to which you still ask patience, like VAT matches? We call for vigorous economic support actions targeted immediately for them who, instead, are the most prepared and abandoned today; at least 1,000 euros for those who have always paid taxes, given the 780 euros paid to those who do not work and the taxes do not pay them! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We need stock and money. There can be no accounting records as if nothing had happened, while public administration - on the other hand - does not pay its debts. On the DEF we express all our perplexity and disagreement. We can no longer afford titles without content. Listen to Parliament, which should have been the government's main task force. I'm sorry I don't have time to go into this nonsense anymore. Listen and above all realize our proposals. We will repeat it to you to the point of exhaustion: immediately simplification, flexibility, liquidity lost, fiscal equity with the means of immediate execution. Help the mayors, because without them it would have been a tragedy in the tragedy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Send resources to the municipalities and not just advance what they already had to take. No more environmental taxes. The environment is protected and saved through progress, innovation, development and work and not through taxes. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The country can rise to two conditions: confidence and freedom as in the post-war period; clear rules, but confidence. We put in conditions the people who want to do right away, including support for school in its entirety, i.e. both state and equal, because it would be a disaster if the peer schools closed because they were abandoned to their destiny. I don't have time to talk about tourism, culture, children, and so on. Nobody blows over conflicts. The social risk is there without the need to blow. Do you know how to get them back in? With the hope of rebirth, that it would be a powerful vaccine if this government could generate it. Will you be able to do it as closed as you are? Don't turn us into a beggar country, we won't let you. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The government will give the lever and see that the Italians will raise the world, or lift him up. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u95	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u96	Mr President, let's talk about DEF and numbers. Perhaps never as today the numbers become part of a process that is truly overwhelming our country. The question is: how was it possible that an entire country, almost without realizing it, ethically and politically collapsed in the face of an illness? In fact, for a couple of months now, we have been faced with a succession of decree-laws and decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, measures of an exquisitely parliamentary nature that have had a resounding impact on constitutional rights, thus revealing an institutional break. Eventually we may have to ask ourselves if we can call things for what they are. Are we really facing a dictatorship of necessity or an emergency dictatorship that overcomes everything and everyone? We have a fact, in addition to the numbers of the DEF: the real problem that has turned out to be that everyone has to live up to the task that is due to him. What is lacking in this panorama, in fact, is the Government, which has not at all exercised the role that the Constitution assigns to it and has gone even further. The regions, on the other hand, have faced their task and exercised their duty. The Regions have resisted, they have resisted despite this Government, despite the politics of the Government. These regions have saved lives, despite the communicative and normative confusion created by the government itself. It is the regions that have managed to keep the health system up. I would like to thank all those regions which, in reality, have created an embankment to spread an epidemic and which have themselves sacrificed themselves for all. And without the commitment of these Regions, gentlemen, Italy would have collapsed: and they are not even my words. Therefore, we must thank the Regions and the Presidents of the Regions. We thank Lombardy for the very serious difficulty it has faced and that it has been able to face, becoming the target, among other things, in a completely unbecoming way, of attacks and political aggressions purely speculative. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I thank the Veneto Region, for how it dealt with the situation, for the courage, for the decision. I, for a bit of bell-towerism, must of course also thank President Zaia in particular. But the regions have paid high economic costs for a huge expenditure: from civil protection, to health care, to the costs they will have to face in order to make up for what will be the serious shortcomings, also of this Government; the political costs of the choices made and the social cost, that I do not know if it will be healed, but that it will certainly leave a very deep wound. Then there will be the heavy cost of lost lives. And these costs are absolutely not in this DEF. There have been needs, expressed by the Regions, of the requests made by the Regions: some have also had some feedback, but partial. The regions need a safeguard of the budgetary balances, in order to cover even the lower revenue they have had to bear. And let's be careful, because there may be profiles within which the regions may not respect the essential levels of performance. They have asked for increases, of course, from the National Health Fund and this, perhaps, is also to be attributed, in proportion, to what is the density of the contagion. We know, in fact, what has been the use of intensive therapies and admissions. Again, an increase in the Civil Protection Fund: this is for the expenses already incurred and those to be incurred. There's a problem with local public transport. Evidence has also been provided, but what is needed is an extraordinary investment plan. Such investments must also be allocated to the regions, so that they can, at territorial level, in synergy with the local authorities themselves, relaunch a situation that is absolutely difficult. However, there is a need for a simplification of the regulatory framework, including for these investments, and for flexible instruments in the use of resources. These answers have not been received. In the end we found ourselves, on Sunday, with the umpteenth decree of the President of the Council of Ministers who, instead of opening this famous new phase, did nothing but mask an extension, without motivating it, also deceiving the citizens, who are now disappointed and frustrated and do nothing but suffer a looming crisis that this Government really does not know how to deal with. I would like to conclude my speech quickly because, in the end, perhaps a positive note has been made in all of this. In the most difficult moments, in the dramatic moments, like those of an emergency, everything is actually revealed. The little ones manifest themselves to be small and big to be big. And I think the people have already given their judgment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u97	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u98	Mr President, as I would like to start my speech with a rhetorical image, I would like to draw attention to the image of the Titanic's stringers, who strummed nice little music as the transatlantic sank and happened what we know and what we saw told in the famous film. We have a document of economy and finance that should plan for the coming years the national economy, but it does not; we have anticipated - it has been said from my colleague Urso - a liquidity decree without the liquidity that, for example, had to be engaged also in the reconstruction of the earthquake zones because that we did with the tax credit. The liquidity of the liquidity decree lies within the banking trusts. You have approved a decree cure Italy that, with all evidence, does not care and certainly was not sufficient for the purpose. We are going to approve a document that certifies that the Italian public debt will be equal to one and a half times our GDP and, that is, exceeds 150 percent of our GDP. Until yesterday our drama was the public debt that stood at 130 percent. The DEF takes a photograph; it illustrates an emergency, which we all know, and exchanges this Parliament as those to whom this photograph is to be delivered. The photographs, however, make her photographers and not rulers. In addition to photographing a reality that we all know is obviously problematic, governments must imagine, see the future and illustrate; they must mark the way and loosen the knots. The striking photograph is precisely the space reserved for the Government which, with all respect for the colleagues present, is empty and could not be otherwise. The Document is, in fact, empty and, therefore, also the spaces of the Government can only be empty. Colleagues, the most worrying thing for those who, like me for example, have come from so many years of politics is the absence of politics from this document. It has been said, moreover, in an absolutely bipartisan way by other speeches which preceded me. In this document there is no politics; there is no respect for the institutions; there is no need to confront ourselves at a time of such serious and dramatic need in a bipartisan way. We have listed a number of figures that plunge us into an abyss and we do so with the very serious absence of the Prime Minister, who, moreover, is not elected by the citizens. Things should be different, then, if only for a matter of education and respect. The Minister for Economic Affairs is not elected by the citizens or, indeed, was elected in the supplementary elections in Rome. However, it was not part of the composition of this Parliament and, if only for the sake of respect, it had to be here to listen to the speeches. It is not just a question of form because I now come to the content of my speech. The reason why I think the document is empty is that we do not know how it will end with the problem of the epidemic; we do not know if there will be a second viral storm in October from several quarters early. The document is, therefore, a work-in-progress, if we want to use a understood term, to adapt to events. We, on the other hand, must attack the real big problem and I have said so since the beginning of this emergency. The overlapping of health and economic issues has very often led to a distortion of analysis that we are still carrying today. Today we - and the DEF demonstrates this in a plastic way because it stops in front of all the programmers passages in the doubt of what will happen with the emergency health - we still have to face precisely that emergency health. 20.05 p.m. (Follows ZAFFINI). Colleagues, of this virus - as has been observed by all and on this the entire scientific community agrees - are more the things that we do not know than what we know; they are more the things that we are unknown than those that are known to us. It is obvious, then, that the restart with the so-called phase 2, or phase 1.5 or whatever you want to call it, in the dark, to the lights off, is a go to beat sure, whether there will be the second lockdown or the second viral storm or that there will be no. It is quite clear, in fact - we are seeing it in Germany and France - that, without a deep screening tool for the population, we are unable to reopen anything at all. In this sense, the delay of the Ministry of Health in validating the blessed rapid tests, tests that within a minute give an answer - albeit insufficient and with a considerable amount of doubt - is serious and guilty because not to make these instruments available to the regions, civil protection, doctors of general medicine, health of the territory means to prevent there being a screening of the population where we are going to reopen. Explain to me how the turn of Terni's steel works - I am Umbrian - will be more or less a hundred people, to be analyzed at the time when he comes to work! There is a colleague from Terni to whom I welcome and wish you well. How are we going to swab 150 people who enter within ten minutes if we do not provide a tool that already exists? Today there is this instrument; it has a latency, it has an indecision of answer only in the excess of positivity, but the negative is certain. And we're gonna put him in quarantine and swab him. It can't be too late. Colleagues, this is the third time I have spoken to express this concept: someone will have to respond to this situation. You can still not delay validating the blessed or cursed rapid tests, because without this tool you do not start again, and if you leave again, after a week we will have to close again, and then it will be like the relapse of the flu, which is always pneumonia. With regard to all this, how do we not have the Minister or the Deputy Minister of Health here? Who are we talking to? Personally, I am extremely concerned, also because in another paradoxical affair we have blocked all national health while waiting for the "bump" of the Covid; it hit that it has arrived in three, four Regions and that in all the rest of the national territory there is not. I repeat, I am Umbrian and in Umbria this emergency is not there, as there is not in Basilicata and neither in Lazio. We have hospitals with great professionals who are holding hands: do we have to put them in the integration fund? Maybe we should get on with it ourselves, colleagues. What are we doing here? We don't need it. There are the task forces, so let's put ourselves in the Integration Fund. Let's get the doctors who are in unused hospitals. We must start again with the planned work, ladies and gentlemen, which has been blocked for two months. We have a performance treatment deficit and a diagnosis deficit that we will carry for years to dispose of because today there are very serious pathologies that are not firm, walk. Today, surgery at major hospitals is less than 80 percent; access to the emergency room is less than 80-75 percent. We must start again with the planned work; health must be organised. This organization is not there; it is a daily problem between the Regions and the Ministry. But, in the face of all this, it is clear that we will have to dispose of the serious damage caused by this situation in a few days' time. I recommend first of all that we assume our responsibilities, but not in front of the citizens on television; the Government of the Nation is not a "great brother." I recommend that we shoulder our responsibilities in the places of the institutions, as it is clear that it must be and as constitutionally provided for it to be. Everyone must fully exercise his or her delegation. The delegation of health today is central; today in the Health Commission we have discussed the need to intervene in the proposal, in order to try to put in hand a whole series of issues that lie within the universe of health, old and new, aggravated by the emergency, which are not addressed at all. There is a continuous lack of responsibility between the Regions and the Government. I am closing by clearly recommending a different step. We await the next decree-law, that of April, which will be issued in May; fine, provided that it is issued. In that decree-law there will have to be resources to make available to the Regions the rapid tests, which within five minutes tell what is the epidemiological situation of the subject investigated. Without these tests, we're gonna crash, we're gonna go to disaster. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u99	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u100	Mr President, today we have listened very carefully to all the speeches, both by majority and by opposition. Some suggestions, some statements and some proposals are certainly for the attention and reflection of all of us. I am thinking of the last speech, which raised the question of how to resume normal health activity and how to deal safely with all the controls and other health activities that have stopped at the moment, but which are certainly to our attention and that of the Minister of Health. I'd like to say a few things. We must be fully aware - but from some other interventions it seems that we have not fully realized this - of how we have had to and how the Government has had to develop the DEF. Do you think we're in a normal situation? Isn't this an emergency DEF? I believe that this should have been not only the first concern, but also the first element on which together we should have put in place all the energies and all forms of collaboration. Obviously then everyone has his own ideas, for goodness sake, but we cannot fail to realize that we are obviously faced not with a DEF in times of peace, but with a sort of DEF in times of war. It is no coincidence that the extraordinaryness of what we have to face is found in the numbers, in the reality that the DEF delivers us and in the increase of the debt. What were we thinking? Did we really think that a country that already had its difficulties with regard to debt would come today to the appointment with the DEF as if it were nothing? We have already made a maneuver and a first deviation of 20 billion, on which we supported the first measures. The Minister for Economic Affairs - who is here and whom I greet - knows perfectly well how much we, as a majority, have said: not only must we be quick, but we must also ensure that a number of other situations are covered, because we fully realize that the tsunami that has overwhelmed us is producing enormous difficulties on a social level. We live in the country, we are in contact with all people and we realize it; we know it perfectly well. With the care of Italy and with the first maneuver of deviation we have put in field a series of measures. This was the first response to the emergency in front of a situation - you know perfectly well - that I do not say caught us all by surprise, but that certainly we could not deal with quietly having to intervene immediately in emergency. In some regions there was a much stronger impact and there too the answers were different. It's not that all the blame lies on the one hand, in the centralist government that made choices, while, on the other hand, all things went well. It is not a political issue: I want to say it very clearly. It is not a political issue and there has not been an attack only on some regions: it has not been so. You know perfectly well that in Veneto things have gone one way and in Lombardy they have gone another and therefore, clearly, we must realize that they have entered the field, in this emergency, also different models of health management, which have responded to that drama in a different way. You cannot take charge of this to the Government or to the majority. Someone said that Lombardy, for example, was the subject of attacks, but that is not the case. Things have gone differently in each region, because very different measures have been put in place, but everyone must assume responsibility for them. Obviously the Government and the majority assume responsibility for the part that is theirs, but also the Regions have to do it, for the part that belongs to them. What we should all find again is strong coordination, especially now, in phase 2, between the actions of the regions and what is decided at the central level. I will return quickly to the DEF issue. Tomorrow we will learn to vote another and second far more powerful deviation, which certainly led to numbers than to read them make the wrists tremble. Do you think that the government comes here lightly to present us with a debt-to-GDP ratio of 155%? Clearly, these are matters that make the wrists tremble. Do you think, however, that we should not have put in place such a robust second shift operation? Some people even say that it will not even be enough and we know that we will probably have to find other instruments as well. But this is also a powerful operation, with a maneuver that was not recorded for how long - indeed, perhaps there has never been such a maneuver in our country - to continue to support the incomes, to intervene on the bands that have been excluded up to now - I continue to reiterate that there is an absolute need to intervene, for example with an emergency income or other tools, call them as you want, to help the people who have been excluded so far and the families that are in great suffering - and to make liquidity work. Here too, however, responsibility must be taken. Among other things, the Finance and Treasury Committee and the Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system held hearings. We know perfectly well that many of the delays in supporting businesses are certainly not due to the decree-law, as it has been written. There are fairly clear inputs in the liquidity decree, but there are resistance from the banks, of which the Minister is certainly taking responsibility and on which we must give very strong inputs. We know that and so here too we have the elements to understand clearly how we built the decree and also the fact that there are resistances, because unfortunately our country is so, we know it and not from today. This is not the first time we have faced the node of banks. Of course, even at the international level of the big pressure groups, what do you think of the downgrading done by Fitch? I am not a conspiracy player but certainly, looking at how some judgments are being made by rating agencies, it is a political operation, not a financial one. Clearly, we find ourselves in a mix of issues that we try to deal with one at a time. Starting with the conclusion, I would also like to say that in everything that we put in the field at this stage and in the way in which we face phase 2 (which as far as I am concerned also means how to restart the country, understanding not only how it opens but what input is given so that development can resume) we must not make a mistake. Nature has spoken clearly, it has given us very clear warnings with this huge crisis caused by this virus: we do not make the mistake of thinking that this country can resume its path and its development by abandoning the issues that we had put on the field. As far as I am concerned, the green transition, the green new deal, investments in environmental sustainability and the circular economy are all the more powerful at this time to move forward and to get the country back on track. We are convinced of the need for a maneuver in which we support income, so we support domestic demand (because this is the important thing), and above all we resume a path with even more force on the road that we had indicated, which is the only possible because a second chance nature will not give us it. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u101	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u102	Mr President, during this pandemic by many analysts, but also in general public opinion, analogy has been used with the situation of the Second World War; I believe that in some respects this analogy holds up, not for the event itself, but for the consequences it has generated. Well, none of us escapes that World War II was of course an element of mass devastation and that from that there was also a huge plan to revive the world and European economy. On June 5, 1947, Harward was given the famous speech that launched the so-called Marshall plan, which was actually called the European recovery program. Look at the analogy with what we're talking about today. There are historical analogies, there are analogies from the point of view of programs and tools, there are lexical analogies. At that time there were three major objectives of this great international plan: the first was obviously an economic-financial aid plan; the second was a plan to promote economic integration, certainly that between the United States and Europe, but also that within Europe that had been politically, culturally, sociologically and economically devastated; then the third objective was to finally give a real operational outlet to the great utopia that had long been growing towards the European political project. Mr President, in those years, when this programme was called, there was a huge debate in the United States and Europe because there were two great currents of thought: there were those who said that basically the $12.7 billion that this plan transferred to Europe (of which $1.2 billion to Italy) had to be used for aid to deal with the dramatic contingency, and those who claimed that this was necessary but not sufficient because that money had to be used also to initiate a process of radical transformation and reconstruction of the European production system. Well, Mr President, today we are exactly in this line, in this position. Senator De Petris is quite right: the new frontier is to seize the opportunity of this great transformation, of this crisis, of this tragedy, to rethink the model of economic growth structurally, enhancing the billions of euros coming from the European Union and the national Government and Parliament. If we were to imagine using these funds only for the health emergency - and of course we must - but not to give a marked orientation towards the real frontier of transformation, towards the green new deal, it is quite clear that we would do a half job. Is there awareness of this? There is some, but the work to be done is huge. All the work that this House of Parliament has done over the past few years, months and weeks on the issue of green new deal must not be thrown into the nettles, on the contrary. It was not a matter of fashion, but it was absolutely necessary, as well as urgent. Last note, ma'am. I have heard some senators, in particular Senator Stefani - my country, among other things - talk about constitutional rights violated and dictatorship of the emergency. I believe there is a limit to everything and I say it without controversy, but because I believe that words make sense, at least in this House. How can one turn a phrase of this kind to an Italian Government, while at the same time the leader of that party, in front of what the Hungarian Prime Minister of Liberal Democracy does, solidarity and fraternizes with his friend Orbán? [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] What has theorized and practiced the liberal democracy, what he said in the last provision - against which, of course, the opposition of the Hungarian Parliament opposed - that from that moment on, dear friends, friends and colleagues, the opposition would make it a parliamentary majority; what he said was that those who protest against his government are a traitor to the nation. Do you know what the matter is? That the true patriots in Italy are the Europeanists. [[Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] The sovereignists and nationalists are against Europe, but they are also against the Italians. This is a great opportunity for us, for Europe and for our citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u103	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u104	Mr President, just as the sheep are closed to one, to two, to three, and the others are shyingly landing the eye and 'the snout', so, after the last time I had the privilege of addressing the Presidency in this House, to bring to it the democratic alarm of millions of Italians, the constitutionalists came out of the close of their shrines and discovered the Constitution. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Better late than never, comes to say. But we must not be unfair: my speech, to be honest, was nourished by the contributions of many who had already expressed themselves in the specialized magazines. Among the first to denounce the constitutional emergency, which some colleagues do not see, was probably Massimo Cavino, on the website federalismi.it (just read it), followed by Gaetano Silvestri on the blog of Unity for the Constitution and others. Those who have come out now, like snails after the storm of a few days ago, are the noble fathers of discipline, those described so well in the Gospel of Matthew chapter 23. That's better. Since speaking from here serves to be heard by those who have the privilege of pontificating on the newspapers, I take advantage of the discussion on the DEF, of this sterile, feeble, stale liturgy, to highlight how the authoritarian drift that we denounced last time and the ineffectiveness of the measures taken by this maneuver, which many recalled, are two evils that have a common root. This root lies in the fact that an economic system in which the only outlet is the compression of wages, austerity, will necessarily bring with it the compression of political rights. It is an objective authoritarian drift: since wages are the source of income of the majority, the only way the system has to perpetuate itself is to compress, along with wages, democracy: to prevent the majority from expressing themselves. And, of course, any reference to the need for political elections that bring Parliament back to the electorate is purely intentional. And what does constitutionalists have to do with these evaluations? What's the DEF got to do with it? This is because the dynamics I have described are reflected in a legal choice of hierarchy of sources, that of submitting the Constitution of a Republic based on labour, Article 1, to the Treaties of a Union based on price stability, Article 3, paragraph 3, of the Treaty on European Union (TEU). Now the two things together cannot be had for the simple reason that prices and their inflation are linked to unemployment by a reverse relationship; to control prices you have to raise unemployment. Austerity serves this purpose; the Keynesians call it Phillips' curve, the Marxists call it a reserve industrial army, and the left wing calls it a resource. The question we should all have asked ourselves for a long time is what is the point of organizing our society around a "holy war" against an enemy - inflation - that is no longer there? How much constitutional jurisprudence in the field of labour law could be revised, with due respect, in the light of this fact? All the institutions that we have endowed ourselves with, from the austere budgetary rules - which today is celebrated the apotheosis - to independent central banks, aim at one thing: to kill a dead enemy. I am convinced, in full humility and awareness of how much I don't know and that I learn from you every day, that if I turn into a hyena and go around with a microphone asking how many years we no longer have in Italy the fearful two-digit inflation, you would answer me what you read in the newspapers: Since the end of the 1990s, since we entered the euro. No, you don't. Inflation in Italy has been a figure since 1985, since the year of "We are the world". Okay? Michael Jackson left us, inflation as well, obsession with the treaties and those who go after him against the deficit and his monetization is unfortunately much longer, but it is time to get rid of it. We should know by now that price dynamics are not linked to the supply of money, Draghi's failure to achieve the 2% inflation target, despite the EUR 2.666 billion issued with quantitative easing (QE). The problem is not excessive liquidity at the moment, but lack of liquidity. Even before the price of oil collapsed, we knew well that what we expected was a world of deflation and negative interest rates, otherwise we would not explain the appetite of markets for very long-term securities. If 50-year-olds or 100-year-olds with rates between 1% and 2% go to steal, it means that markets expect lower rates. So why have we wasted so much time in Brussels, engaging in failed and dangerous negotiations instead of joining those who are asking for what will in any case be the inevitable solution, the solution that will be adopted because the only one that will allow the unionist project to live for a while longer? I am talking about the decisive and unlimited intervention of the European Central Bank. The government underestimates the scale of the crisis and proposes remedies based on inadequate instruments, of which it seems to be ashamed. It has been noted elsewhere that recourse to the ESM, i.e. the caudine forks to whose humiliation this Government wanted to expose us, in the unanimous disregard of the international press, is not even mentioned in the DEF. Perhaps one thing is unclear; all the proposed European funding instruments provide for some institution, whether the ESM fund, the European Investment Bank (EIB) or the European Redemption Fund (ERF), to place securities on the market. Now the placement of a quantity of securities proportionate to the size of the eurozone's recovery needs takes time first and then it is not said to go well, unless the ECB intervenes to support the market, because the delays, in particular those of our country in managing the health emergency and the emergency of the real economy, will bring with them a financial crisis. At that point only the ECB will be able to market those securities. So the question is, why don't we get rid of this taboo right away? Why don't we skip a ride, the one where we're asked to get into debt with the ESM, with all the risks involved? Why don't we ask for liquidity from those who can create it at no cost? Mystery. We are told that the ESM will not impose conditions on the country, but then we are told that the ESM is not there. We are told: You have hindered the path towards European solidarity by voting against eurobonds. Of course, dear friends, the solidarity of the Eurobonds paid with the gold of Bankitalia, as Mr Prodi wanted, or with the European ecotaxes as the Greens want, is genuinely of little interest to us. Only you can consider a success a solidarity fund in which interest on securities issued to finance non-financial interventions will be paid with new European Eurotaxes, new ecotaxes. This is written in point 9 of the Italian proposal. We appreciate refinement. After preventing us from removing the plastic tax by amendment, you are going to remove it by decree, but only because you promised Europe to bring back from the European door what you are now pretending to throw out the window. We are told, and this is the most beautiful of all: But if you are against Europe, why do you ask Europe to save us? This is a great masterpiece of dialectical gnè gnè gnè. We are not against Europe, as we are not against Antarctica or Oceania. We are against institutions that do not work by the rules. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If it does not intervene, the ECB risks triggering a crisis, it simply risks failing its task of contributing to the stability of the financial system, Article 127 (5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU). It is a task which, in its unfathomable wisdom, has interpreted in the sense of bringing down governments that were unpathetic to it (but this is another discourse). It is up to those who defend, it is up to those who venerate the European Union to show that its institutions work. I'll be very clear. The Europe you are talking about, that of solidarity which presupposes full political union, this Irish Europe, is not yet and will never be there. However, we are quite similar in this, because the Europe that we would like to see, the Europe that worked, the Europe that was before the Maastricht Treaty, is also not there. But everyone sees the difference. You dream, you hope, you hope; we take note of the reality and we turn to the Europe that exists, the existing institutions, the national governments and the ECB. You wish and we beg. We beg you: get out of dogmas and clichés that do not belong to you culturally; get out of the liberist garbage of the eighties and look around: the world in which we live is different. But because of the inertia of the unionist mastodon, we must manage it with inadequate, backward institutions. Open your eyes: Italy is a wonderful country, do not sink it with your blindness. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Papatheu]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u105	Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we have now reached the moment when the node has come to the comb, because this DEF speaks to us of an increase in unemployment, which has reached 11.6 per cent; of a decrease in consumption of 7.2 per cent; of a decrease in investment of 12.3 per cent; of a decrease in GDP of 8 per cent; of a decrease in exports of 14%; of a growth in the debt-to-GDP ratio (a ratio that reaches 155 per cent, a value never seen in the history of the Republic). We are faced with an increase in debt, which means a net debt of EUR 75 billion, because in addition to the 55 required we need to recover the 20 billion that were missing from the liquidity decree. It is a matter of acquiring the liquidity that was not in the liquidity decree. So it is a matter of addressing a need of EUR 160 billion. Well, when one needs liquidity and has no own resources, he has to owe it, it's very simple. So Italy will have to go to the markets this year and issue 550 billion euros of government issues, bonds. I would then like to make it clear to everyone in this House and to all those who listen to us that of these 550 billions the ECB this year, if it respected the minimum parameter of 17% of the Italian share ownership of the Eurogroup system and with a criterion of 85% of state issues and 15% of private issues, would buy - indeed it will buy - about 200 billion euros of Italian bonds and government bonds. We are more or less standing because the ECB buys this stuff: it must be clear to the Italians, because otherwise you continue to mess up. Since the ECB is likely to grow and buy more than 17%, it will cover half of the Italian bond requirements. It is clear that the ECB is on our side, like many other European institutions, we in Forza Italia make the defence of our role in Europe a flag (we are not at all part of the European People's Party, which is the majority party of the European Parliament), there remain about 300 billion euros to be found on the markets. Of these 300 billion we are still relying on everything that can be leveraged. Minister, you will recall that at the hearing I also called for further consideration of the possibility of requesting, as shareholders of the International Monetary Fund, an issue of special drawing rights to obtain a reserve on which to make provision on the markets at a somewhat better cost. We rely on the EIB's programmes, if we are able to propose them, because they are funding for projects that need to be presented. We rely on subsidies; it has been said that EUR 1 800 billion of operations have been authorised by the Commission in the field of state aid, of which more than 1,000 billion have been used by Germany. Let us wake up and wake up: let us use an important part of it. Europe is helping us, let us take it. Then there will be the recovery fund; well, we are happy and we will see what will come. There is still the problem of finding several hundred billions on the markets. There is the problem of this majority and this government, because in the markets it takes credibility and to have credibility we must first demonstrate that we can support this debt and therefore allow anyone to verify that nominal growth is higher than the cost of service of the debt. But nominal GDP growth is not achieved by your formulas of pushed nationalizations, of staticization of the economy. This aberration of the 50 billion euros to redo the IRI, through the formula of the Cash deposits and loans does not create wealth. You have to get out of this anti-corporate and anti-business ideology, because that's where you create wealth. The Italian recovery has been assisted by the private sector, by the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which, helped by a regime that allowed it, has managed to create the wealth we have enjoyed. That regime is no longer there; you are making it increasingly difficult. You're talking about "Genoa model." The Genoa model, which means a bit of sburocratization, lower regulation and the whole issue of procurement, means nothing more than applying the European criteria. If we were to apply the European-format procurement code in Italy, we would be able to redo the new Morandi bridge instead of the collapsed one (as many others will collapse if there is no proper maintenance) in a few months. You do not understand that we need to deregulate and deregulate and you do not have the intellectual honesty to accept some of our proposals. We have asked for it and have tabled hundreds of amendments in the past and none of them have been accepted. You asked for political cooperation, we believed in it and we fell into the trap. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We have proposed hundreds of speeches, we have put forward hundreds of proposals and one has not been approved. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] So then you will not be able to go on because, I repeat, we need pro-business reforms, we need credibility and - let me intervene for this last minute - we also need something else: attention to Italians abroad. Now you've all found out that there are Italians abroad. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You have discovered that there are virologies, scientists, experts from various professions because they are now fashionable. There are in all professions, but you, since this legislature began, and - alas - this Government continues, you have mocked them and in a maneuver of 25 billion euros you have allocated 4 million euros for Italians abroad in need. It is about 3.87 euros for every indigent Italian abroad. Not only did you not treat them but you prevented the re-election of the Italian Committees abroad, the Comites and abolished the only institutional assembly we had. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The Committee for the Issues of Italians Abroad abolished the first Conte Government and the second Conte Government does not reinstate it. First there were the PD colleagues who at least helped us defend these chapters, now they have gone in the majority, they have satisfied themselves with some chairs and no more talk about them. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] To speak of Italians abroad we were really very few. Italians abroad exist and without them your way will be even more difficult so I invite you to change your address. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u107	Senator Presutto is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about a particular DEF, a special DEF that is affected by a serious problem: we are talking about contagion, let us not forget it. Let's leave economic lessons to universities: at this moment the economy serves but it is an emergency economy. So I extend a special thanks to the Government for how it has managed so far a criticality, before of a sanitary nature and at the same time of economic nature, in combination with the measures of aid for the enterprises that will accompany the new model of Italy. We are debating in an international scenario, to say the least, unimaginable that concerns the whole world. The whole world suddenly sees some certainties being questioned, discovering themselves more fragile and, in some respects, impotent; it is not just a problem of Italy. Yet all of us, no one excluded, work with the certainty that we will leave all this behind. Of course, the Coronavirus emergency - because we are talking about the Coronavirus as well as the DEF - will leave us all a legacy that is not easy: the Italian and international economy will emerge from this situation with not indifferent scars and probably with economic models that universities will have to re-learn to study (then there will be a way to repeat them also in the Chamber). Today we are talking about human lives, those that are struggling in hospitals and those that we must help to recover dignity through an economic system that is healthy again. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That is why we must stress the importance of the response prepared by this Government with the support of the parliamentary majority. After a deficit of 20 billion euros authorized by the decree Cura Italia, we are about to put in place a further effort, always in terms of deficit. This time we are talking about EUR 55 billion, all because of a sort of maneuver that through the May Decree - let's give him the right name because there are two days to the month of May - will put in place more than EUR 150 billion. This is a very significant and historical intervention. A completely due intervention within which there are solutions for: the extension and strengthening of the integration fund also for the very small companies; an extension and strengthening of support for the self-employed; an emergency income for all the categories that have been discovered by the previous measures; a large public appropriation to cover all the guarantees granted in favour of the liquidity for the enterprises; an extension of the suspension of a wide range of fiscal and bureaucratic obligations; new appropriations to pay to the enterprises the debts of the public administration and additional interventions to fund for the benefit of the enterprises that have suffered a decrease in the turnover. This is, only in general terms, what the Government, with the support of Parliament, has done in the combined arrangement of several successive measures: the decree cure Italy, the decree liquidity and the imminent decree May. There is no one responsible for denying that every effort is being put together to establish a protection network around our health care, our workers, our families and our businesses; that is our goal. There are those who, responsibly, can deny the extreme complexity of the situation and the extreme difficulty in preparing measures adaptable to the changing needs of the country. It is irresponsible to put further difficulties on these objective and epidemic difficulties. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This country is preparing to face, as a result, a large and due financial effort, a commitment that also opens up a horizon of opportunities that we are obliged to embrace. In front of us we have the prospect of a reversal of the paradigms and economic models followed so far, which the crisis is accelerating. The government is doing its part extensively both inside the country and in a European key because we have all now understood how the two dimensions are connected and must be managed in emergency. The Italian Government has the indisputable merit of addressing the debate and enriching a range of proposals that had initially appeared as a shy minimum on the inclusion of the European recovery fund proposals in the package - hence on the direct issue of sharing efforts. We are aware that this is a first step and we all also know how much work will still have to be done to fill the recovery fund with content and how important it will be that the resources it finds do not go to the States only in the form of a loan (operation that would feed additional debt). But a principle has been set. Not only that, there is also a temporal constraint defined as urgent and put in black and white, of which the Community institutions are now called to respond. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reference to debt is not accidental. The Italian response, like that of all the countries, will result in a significant increase in the Italian public debt that is about to move from 133 to 155% of GDP in practice. We all know that Italian public debt is sustainable and that the country has sound economic fundamentals, a high level of private savings, a low private debt, a historical - at least so far - primary surplus, a net external creditor position and a diversified economy. But a high public debt is still a moloch to which we must sacrifice huge resources, taken from the new generations and the development of our country, which constantly exposes us to the usual blackmail of the speculations of turn. We are aware of the risks of some relationships and will work to improve them, but bringing Italy ready. In responding to the crisis so difficult that we are living, we must therefore take the opportunity also to address the issue of debt. From this point of view, the European Central Bank is, and may be, crucial. So I agree with that. The European Central Bank has already stepped up its scope by placing an additional EUR 750 billion of its quantitative easing on the plate and thus by the end of the year it will reach a figure of EUR 1,100 billion, giving way to the Italian debt and other European countries. In addition, the European Central Bank itself has laid the foundations for overcoming certain rules which have so far limited its firepower. I am referring to the 33% rule that prevents the purchase of securities exceeding 33% of a single bond issue and the temporary flexibility on the so-called capital key that limits purchases of state bonds to the ECB's share of capital held by the individual central banks. On this last point, directly for the purposes of the transmission of monetary policy to the market, we expect more decisive and definitive action from the ECB and we will ask them. This does not mean that the ECB is subject to the political will of the various countries, but rather the opposite. Only an independent monetary authority can ignore the various national egoisms which unfortunately still remain within the European Union. Only an authoritative central bank can overcome the self-imposed statutory constraints, the result of agreements and downward compromises, but made in the past and not adapted to a period of radical paradigm changes. We believe, however, that it is equally important to identify autonomous ways of finding resources and protecting our public debt. From this point of view, the Movimento 5 Stars has several proposals on the plate, of which I go to extrapolate only some points, useful to open hints of general reflection, that I hope can involve, already tomorrow, all the human resources of our country and seize all the opportunities of change that the current scenario presents us. For example, we should think of a natural improvement process in public administration action, to enable it to manage public resources much more efficiently. A new model of performance measurement, more modern, more up-to-date and extended to public companies, is a solution to be taken into account. We will also have to think of incentive mechanisms to offer families, on a strictly voluntary basis, the possibility of investing in government bonds. We often say this: in Italy there is a financial and real estate wealth of about 10,000 billion euros; of these, almost 5000 billion are of financial wealth, of which about 1500 are deposited on current accounts. It must be possible to think of fiscally facilitated government bonds, smart instruments that can stimulate stable possession until maturity, with a view to saving and investment in favour of households aimed at a stable income increase. At the same time, we should consider, for example, the establishment of a public investment bank, a bank that, at the same time, can guarantee low-cost financing for families and businesses and that can invest in the country's major infrastructure. As well as the establishment of a certification platform for taxpayers' claims vis-à-vis public administrations, whether of a commercial or fiscal nature, resulting from facilitations or deductions, could be assessed. The aim would be to facilitate the circulation of these claims through their transfer to banks and financial intermediaries, their compensation with tax debts, their transfer to third parties, as a consideration for commercial transactions. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the so complicated times we are experiencing and the enormous effort that the state is putting into the field also require us to be innovative: a magic word at this time. They require us to speed up a path of change that only a few months ago we thought was unimaginable. A path that we will start by restoring dignity and quality of life to citizens, preserving, first and foremost, their health. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u109	The joint debate is closed. I communicate to the Assembly that the Presidency has received, on the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, motions for resolutions nos. 100, presented by Senators Calderoli and other Senators, 101, presented by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and 102, presented by Senators Bernini and other Senators. In addition, the Presidency has received motions for resolutions Nos 3 and 4 on the 2020 Economic and Financial Document. 1, presented by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris and Pharaoh, and 2, presented by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. The lyrics are in distribution. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u110	Mr President, given the late hour, I will really go for titles and do the reply as quickly as possible. I have taken notes on all the speeches made by the distinguished colleagues, but I repeat that I do not want to speak for ten minutes. In fact, it would take even more. I really go for titles, also because the themes have repeated themselves. There has been a lack of government intervention on several sides. I would remind you that up to now we have put in place 75 billion speeches and two deviations. If you look at the latest budget laws and do not consider the safeguard clauses, we have practically done, so far, the equivalent of 10 last budget laws. The emphasis has then been on the demand to put an end to welfare policies on a number of occasions. I'm guessing you're referring to citizenship income. I, on the other hand, the political force to which I belong and the government that we support, believe that it is a measure that has allowed, precisely during this period, to give answers to two and a half million people, who, without the income of citizenship, would have been in a truly dramatic situation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That this measure is right and meets the policies of social inclusion and start-up to work, this is borne out by the demands that come from other social groups that are currently suffering from restrictions, lockdowns and the closure of many economic activities. That is the objective: the method to be followed is that the State helps citizens who are in difficulty even temporarily and does not abandon them to themselves. On the other hand, there have been a couple of interventions on the issue of increasing the tax burden. I had told the truth quickly in my report that this is not the case: there is no increase in tax pressure and, indeed, net of the benefit of the 80 euros monthly (which were then raised to 100 euros for holders of total income not exceeding 28,000 euros), the tax pressure (which was 41.9 in 2018) would go to 41.8 in 2020 and 42.5 in 2021. There's no raise, then. With reference, however, to the interventions aimed at promoting the reopening of economic activities as soon as possible - of course it is something we all hope and that we would all like to do - but in a responsible way the Government also keeps an eye on the curve of contagions. I just want to remind you that in Germany, in a few days after the reopening of some activities, the contagion index has risen from 0.7 to 1. This indicates that we do not invent the dangers inherent in reopenings, but that we pose the problem and try to safeguard the health of citizens, which must really be our first objective. Other measures concerned the need to strengthen the health system and to invest in this area. We can only agree because we have always stigmatized what we did to the opposite. In fact, in ten years, at least 37 billion have been taken from the National Health System and, therefore, of course, we in Movimento 5 Stars can only approve this type of proposal. The same applies to the possibility of creating more medical specialists. Obviously there is a change of mindset and ideas in this Parliament because - I repeat - in this case too in recent years we have gone in the opposite direction by imposing closed numbers. Let us all take our responsibilities and, therefore, let us work to make this possible. As far as the safeguard clauses are concerned, someone in his speech stressed the importance of eliminating them once and for all. In fact, it was an action that had to be taken because the presence of safeguard clauses meant that basically the last budgetary laws had their hands tied. Other interventions required the common will to put hand to the administrative machinery of the country, modernising it, therefore. If we all agree on this, we should really overcome our different political ideas and at least act as a single decision-making body. As far as the dramatic numbers of the decline in GDP that have been mentioned are concerned, I have actually pointed out one of the interventions in which a decrease in GDP of 15% was mentioned. This would have been supported by the Parliamentary Budget Office, but in fact it is not because the Parliamentary Budget Office does not say anything different than the DEF, so much so that it validated it. The decrease of 15% of GDP refers to the first half of 2020; then there is a rebound in the second half, which means that the decrease that we calculate is about 8%. As far as culture is concerned, more investment is needed in this area. We are also super agreeable on this. I would like to make a joke because a famous minister of the economy said, instead, that culture is not eaten. Among other things, it was supported by those who spoke a few hours ago instead of the need to invest in this sector. (The sitting was suspended at 21.01 p.m. and resumed at 21.01 p.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.) I'm almost done. The same can be said for school; there has been an indication of the need to make important investments in this area. Again, I note that there is a different approach to the problem, given that the school has been depleted in recent years, so here too, if Parliament agrees unanimously in this respect, let us step up and not divide ourselves at least on the issues on which we agree. I think I've answered more or less everything. There was the question of liquidity, which has come out several times, therefore of the need for the lost fund. In his penultimate speech, Senator Fantetti asked not to state the economy. It occurred to me, then, what Confindustria told us, that obviously surpassed us all on the left because, in the hearing held in the Budget Committee, instead asked for direct transfers to companies by the State to compensate for losses and then even the recapitalisation of companies in crisis through innovative forms of temporary acquisition of minority packages, i.e. state participations. We have returned to real socialism. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u111	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Damiani.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u112	Mr President, I too have listened carefully to all the speeches by the majority and the opposition, and I would like to focus on a number of aspects that have emerged from the debate, particularly from the speeches of my colleagues in the majority. Especially from the benches of the PD Parliamentary Group in many have spoken of Expansive Economic and Finance Document. Well, I would like to ask my fellow Members what we find today and we read expansively in the Document which was presented to these Chambers. Maybe emergency income, once again welfare? For us, assistantism is not expansive, because I would like to know what the multipliers of assistantism generate for the development of the country. What is quite different is income support, which is needed at this time for the productive categories and especially for the supplementary funds. That, yes, needed to be delivered with absolute speed. On the other hand, from the benches of the Movimento 5 Stars Group, many have called for national unity, for the consensus that must exist in this Parliament on the reforms, on the maneuvers that are being made. Well, we have offered our willingness several times, but the government has promptly rejected it. We are proposing it again here today in all our speeches. I do not know, however, if in the decree-law, which did not arrive in April and will arrive in May, there will be our proposals. Make yourself available to us too; for our part, we are willing to help the country, to help Italy and we do so with our proposals, therefore, since the measure slides from April to May we propose what are the solutions for the country. Finally, we do not blow at all on the social conflict, but at this particular moment people want a policy with capital P, they want to start the country safely. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We need to get the country back on track. These are the solutions to curb the fall in GDP today. Dear Minister, you know the numbers better than I do and much better than others in this Parliament. GDP will not only rise with rebound action in 2021, but will need strong support and economic investment measures. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u113	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Ferrero.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened to the speeches and I will be a little more direct than my previous speech, because you have convinced me: this DEF does not express an awareness of reality. Colleagues, do all of you really believe that companies will reopen so easily? You all, colleagues of opposition, but also of majority, have brought testimonies of concrete life: the drama of the Italians left without an income, of the Italians left without the livelihood necessary to live, of the entrepreneurs who see the job fade and the projects of a lifetime. Unfortunately, we do not have any concrete evidence on the use of the 55 billion, but only announcements. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And the paradox is even more evident when the majority senators say: "you should." By now it is late, the test of 25 billion with the care Italy you have failed completely. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The League had put forward over 200 concrete proposals, but you accepted only one; the desired collaboration between majority and opposition has miserably failed because of your behavior and now how will we deal with the use of these 55 billion? I'm very worried. Yes, because with the so-called care Italy you have missed an opportunity and you have put in place absolutely inadequate measures, completely ignoring the voice of oppositions. Will they once again be wasted on measures that are ineffective? Do you remember 600 euros in March? A real joke about VAT games. The serious delay in providing the integration fund was predictable and people are starving. Then there was the mockery of the extension of the tax deadlines and the mockery of the decree liquidity, quirky, bureaucratically heavy and wrong in his assumption of making Italians in debt. The economic and social situation is exhausted. The economy needs concrete and urgent measures, with immediate effect, but easily applicable and without bureaucracy. Yesterday the representatives of the categories heard at the hearing gave precise indications: they listened to the proposals of the League and they also gave us reason. It is a pity that the hearings have been deserted by many colleagues in the majority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I hope that the government will hear those hearings again: non-refundable contributions to companies in difficulty, white year, cancellation of tax deadlines, reduction of the Ires on the countervailable profits, compensation between debts and tax credits, cancellation of the fiction of Irpef accounts, simplification of procedures (but seriously). Unfortunately, even listening to your speeches, my colleagues in the majority, I understand that you do not have - except for some, I must say - the sensitivity of the extreme urgency of the measures and that the sensitivity to the problems of companies is not in your DNA. You struggle, you struggle to understand that, if there is no entrepreneur who risks, there is no job, there is no production and there is no GDP. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] But how can you think of including the administrator's responsibility for coronavirus disease Covid-19? In doing so, you hate employers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Do you know what they told me about the craftsmen, who are now exasperated by those 600 euros that didn't even get to them and those 25,000 euros of funding denied for an existing mortgage? Do you know what they told me? Resize and fire. The Government states that the general principles that will guide its modus operandi are clear: first, Italy's public debt and the debt-to-GDP ratio will be brought back to the euro area average in the next decade, through a return strategy that, in addition to achieving an adequate primary budget surplus, will be based on the relaunch of public and private investments, thanks also to the simplification of administrative procedures, making debt sustainable. Then, leaving aside the revival of public and private investment, fiscal reform and bureaucratic deregulation (all things that you may not believe), the only instrument really sure remains the adequate primary budget surplus. But we know what it is: it means cuts, tears and blood. Allow me no longer to believe the announcements, after the unworthy representations of the President of the Council's nullity to the nation of unified networks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Italian people are in complete uncertainty, with a government led by a President of the Council, a champion of falsehood, who, in cask of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, keeps the house arrests of a people by now exasperated. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] After an initial phase - and I have almost finished - of statements, misleading actions and aperitifs to the Navigli, in which the oxen have escaped, you have decided to close, rightly. Today, however, it also seems that you enjoy it. These months have been used to learn how to use masks and to understand what behaviors to care for everyone's health. Today we must have confidence in the Italians, who have given great evidence of civilization, observing the rules imposed. Today it is time to reopen and it is time to regain a minimum of normality, otherwise, the risk of dying of Coronavirus will replace the risk of starving. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u115	I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Professor Gualtieri, to whom I would ask you to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions submitted to the report pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012 and to indicate which motion for a resolution relating to the Economic and Financial Document you intend to accept.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u116	Mr President, the Government welcomes the motion for a resolution No 101, signed by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and accepts the motion for a resolution No 1 on the 2020 Economic and Financial Document, tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris and Pharaoh.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u117	Since the Government has stated that it accepts motion for resolution No 1, signed by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris and Pharaoh, the one-hour deadline for tabling any amendments referred to it is now in force. Please, Minister Gualtieri.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the rich debate on the Government's request for deviation and the Economic and Financial Document. As is evident from this debate and also from the reading of the various motions for resolutions, and as should not be surprising, there are different views on the measures launched by the Government and on the measures being prepared. Of course the oppositions have criticized the Government, as it is legitimate and physiological, although some criticisms have sometimes appeared to overlook the fact that, faced with one of the greatest global pandemics of all time, to a new total lockdown, probably there are no simple solutions, which someone would have been able to provide in looseness. It may at least be doubted. Faced with the test that Italians are subjected to because of this pandemic, I think it is good, on the part of everyone, to exercise the utmost sobriety and humility, avoiding triumphalism, but also perhaps recriminating and practicing the virtue of dialogue and listening, recognizing that we face very difficult challenges, which require the highest degree of unity, commitment and responsibility. However, there seems to be broad consensus that additional resources need to be mobilised and I am therefore pleased that there is a very broad consensus on the authorisation to increase debt by EUR 55.3 billion and the net balance to be financed for an additional EUR 155 billion. I thank all the majority and opposition senators for their support for this request. The document of economy and finance frames the request for deviation in economic forecasts and public finance that highlight the impact that the measures of containment of the epidemic have had and will have on the economy. I do not recall the numbers you know because they are in the DEF, and they express a prudent assessment, validated by the Parliamentary Budget Office, which, as you know, in the baseline scenario is projected to fall by 8% this year and a 4.7% recovery next year. I will also be very quick in recalling the interventions already adopted by the Government in the face of this unexpected shock and which we have tried to launch in a timely manner. First of all, we have provided the necessary and immediate support for health, civil protection, and provided initial support to avoid a crisis of liquidity and job losses and to support citizens' income; we have introduced the blockage of redundancies; we have financed and extended the integration fund to all employees; we have launched a first allowance for self-employed workers and introduced urgent liquidity support measures, such as the ex-lege moratorium on financing and credit openings and the strengthening of the Central Guarantee Fund. The implementation of these measures has, of course, been a challenge, but as a result of these measures, some 4 million self-employed and seasonal workers received the allowance of EUR 600, 140 billion of loans to more than one million families and businesses have been subject to the moratorium, more than nine million workers have entered the Cassa Integrazione, although we know that only more than five million have received the cheque and there are delays - which we regret - especially for the part concerning the regional procedure of the Cassa Integrazione in derogation, a problem that needs to be addressed and resolved. The second stage was the so-called liquidity decree-law, which followed the changes by the European Union of the rules (temporary framework), which allowed to increase the level of guarantees compared to what we had established with the first decree-law, and which allowed precisely to launch the new Italy Guarantee, on the one hand, and to strengthen up to 100%, for loans up to 25,000 euros, the guarantees of the Central Mediocredito. The rules of the liquidity decree-law are now entering into regime; to yesterday they have already generated 3.6 billion financing, of which 450 million for the almost 21,000 operations for the financing up to 25,000 euros. We expect very significant growth in these numbers in the coming days and we hope to overcome the initial problems that some of these measures have had in their first days of implementation, including with Parliament's valuable contribution. The impact of these measures is obvious in the trend of public finance, unlike the new measures for which we are asking for authorisation at additional costs, because, as we have announced from the outset, these first measures would be followed by others to continue and strengthen economic support for families and businesses, including through non-refundable transfers, which are and will be all the more equitable and therefore effective at a time when we will also be able to assess and compare the impact on different sectors, such as loss of turnover. It is therefore perfectly logical and sensible that an initial phase (i.e. the blocking of dismissals, the redundancy fund, the allowance) and a second phase (liquidity) should now be followed in good time by a third phase based on direct, even non-refundable, support to businesses. For this reason, the Government calls for a deviation, which, moreover, concerns not only - it is important to recall this point - 2020, but also the following years. In fact, we have decided to apply for authorisation also for the complete and definitive elimination of the increase in VAT rates and excise duties, as from 2021, for all the years, as long as these are provided for by the current legislation, and for the further increase in investment resources. The elimination of increases in VAT and excise duties is a fundamental operation of "cleaning" the public budget, which, on the one hand, increases the transparency and credibility of our forecasts of public finances and, on the other hand, aims to achieve a reduction in the tax burden during the recovery phase, when the intonation of fiscal policy will have to remain expansionary for a reasonable period of time, even if it is clearly within the limits of a prudent management of public finance. The elimination of the increase in VAT and excise duties leads to a reduction in the tax burden of 1.1 percent of GDP and also gives back room for economic policy, which in recent years have been compressed by the safeguard clauses mechanism, which have often transformed budgetary laws into an exercise focused almost exclusively on the elimination of VAT increases for the current year and often on their increase in subsequent years. To stimulate growth we will also act through the forecast of specific incentives, devoting part of the greater demands for 2021 and the following years (about 6 billion euros each year until 2031) to the strengthening of investments. Therefore, if we take into account the resources provided for in the report at the previous deviation and this, we have a total deviation of 75 billion in net debt and about 180 billion in budgetary appropriations for 2020. It is undoubtedly a powerful expansive maneuver, an entity never reached since the post-war period. Although the required deviation has a very significant dimension, so as to bring net debt to 10.4% in 2020 and public debt to 155.7%, this expansionary manoeuvre does not jeopardise the sustainability of public finance and, indeed, is a condition for its strengthening. I would also like to point out that before the crisis the government debt had fallen compared to the forecasts of the DEF Update Note by about one percentage point and that the return on government bonds showed a stable and descending profile. Moreover, after the ongoing crisis, which inevitably triggered a recovery in returns, also thanks to the interventions adopted by the ECB, previously recalled, already from the second half of March have returned to the markets operating conditions definitely better. On the other hand, the quantitative dimension of the package put in place by the ECB is such as to ensure support commensurate with the size of the largest debt that all countries will have to place in order to cope with the crisis. Also this year our average interest rate on debt will continue to fall and next year, considering the increasing portion of debt held by the ECB, the payments net of the share that is relegated to us by the Bank of Italy will be in line with the current ones. In any case, both the deficit and the debt-to-GDP ratio will fall significantly as early as 2021. For the following years we will set up a debt reduction strategy that will be fully compatible with the objectives of social inclusion, environmental sustainability, growth and development that this Government has given itself and that will be based on the relaunch of public and private investments, thanks also to the simplification of administrative procedures, and on the pursuit of a responsible budgetary policy. Finally, the government's action will be directed towards the introduction of innovative European instruments, necessary to ensure an adequate, symmetrical common response to a shock that is symmetrical. We want to support an economic fabric put to the test by this crisis and give hope to an entire country, which has suddenly seen family, friends and colleagues disappear, from which it would never have thought it would have to be separated so abruptly because of this terrible pandemic. Of course I would like to express a thought of mourning to all the people who have paid and are paying a very high price. [[Applause.]] We are defining the details of the interventions that will be contained in the next decree-law. This work is also based on the careful examination of the agendas that have been approved by the House and the Senate on the so-called decree cure Italy that, as you know, did not have the resources to allow amendments with increased expenditure. However, as we have defined and agreed, by making a commitment, the preparation of the "decree April" would also be based on a careful examination of these agendas. We are trying to take this into account as much as possible. We will not fail to have, before the final adoption of the decree, which also awaits the imminent launch of a new version of the temporary framework by the European Commission, dedicated precisely to defining the modalities, thresholds and characteristics of direct financing, capital or lost funds to companies, which, of course, should be taken into account in order to calibrate our interventions, which is imminent and which is an obvious element that should be taken into account so as not to have to correct the measures in progress. However, we are confident that at the beginning of next week these rules will be approved and also the decree with very few days, two-three days of difference from the original plans, can be launched. These increased resources, which will be available through parliamentary authorisation, will be used, on the one hand, to strengthen and extend over time the interventions already launched, on the other hand, to introduce new instruments to support the productive fabric that favour and accelerate the recovery phase. First of all, the refinancing of social shock absorbers and income support instruments already in force will be envisaged. As we have said several times, we must work to ensure that no one loses their jobs because of the epidemic and that the support we are providing to workers is therefore essential and will be provided as long as there is a need for it. The allowance for self-employed workers will be renewed and strengthened by a review of the procedures which will make the payment of the next tranche very rapid. We are also discussing the new temporary instrument for families with no income, pensions or public subsidies and who are currently in economic difficulties. New employment insurance (Naspi) will be extended for those who have the unemployment benefit due and compensation will be provided for colf and caregivers who have not been able to work in this period due to the emergency. The suspensions, simplifications and tax concessions will be re-proposed and strengthened and we will completely eliminate VAT on protective devices throughout 2020, taking advantage of all the room for manoeuvre on the rates granted by the European Commission on an extraordinary basis, and then on a regime basis, since 2021, to reduce VAT permanently to 5% on these fundamental products. We will also increase the tax credit for companies that are sanitising the environments and working tools and who purchase the necessary devices to protect the health of workers. To these interventions and others will be added an important package of business support measures that will take into account both their size and the impact of the crisis. The maintenance of the business system, which is fundamental, will be ensured by specific forms of support for those who have suffered the impact of the crisis and, with some targeted interventions, we will also intervene on some of the structural problems of the Italian economy naturally aggravated by this crisis, such as the lack of capitalization of companies. We are therefore putting in place measures to strengthen corporate capital, to contribute to the absorption of the losses generated by the crisis and to support them with prospects of recovery in investment for recovery and growth. As you know, we will move in line with the new rules being drawn up by the European Commission. Of course, we will continue and try to strengthen and relaunch the Green and Innovation deal plan, which, with a view to greater sustainability, can be strengthened by greater digitisation of the economy, which at this stage has proved evident to know a lot of spaces and margins for strengthening. There will also be important measures to stimulate investment in order to increase both the sustainability and resilience of the economy, as well as an intervention on bureaucratic-administrative constraints and on the interaction between the productive sector and public administration, which we think can be the subject of a specific parallel measure. These actions will anticipate some of the reforms that will subsequently be incorporated into the multi-annual strategy that will be fully defined by the PNR, which will be presented to the Chambers on the basis of a shared evaluation at European level. At this stage it would have been premature - but most countries will follow this direction - to present a PNR during the outbreak. Finally, we will allocate 12 billion to allow the collection of claims from public administrations for supplies, procurement and professional services, thereby strengthening the necessary liquidity injection of the system. We will take specific measures to support local authorities, which represent the level of government closest to the citizens' demands and are central at this stage. I would like to thank them for the very difficult work they are doing. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] These actions must be placed within the framework of measures to respond to the global pandemic adopted at European level, which are important and necessary also to avoid situations of divergence within the Union. Senator Urso recalled the differentiated data on the use of public interventions in the various countries of the Union. This is exactly one of the reasons why Italy and other countries are calling for significant common instruments at European level to define a common response. I respect the deep-rooted beliefs of Senator Bagnai, who once again proposed to us and who, of course, would find room for a broad academic debate in a complex debate and review of the European treaties. Perhaps, however, this is the time to concentrate all of us together and try to build an adequate and strong response at European level, as the Italian Government is asking. The government has achieved the not negligible objective - indeed I would say hardly imaginable until a few weeks ago - to change the agenda of possible responses, so that - as has been indicated - a set of instruments will have to be activated starting from the three (before there was only one, then they have become three). I recall the new ESM credit line without conditions to support direct and indirect health expenditure; the Sure programme for countries that wish to apply for it; the new Sure line to support employment support; the new EIB programme to support enterprises with joint guarantees and investments; the Recovery Fund for Europe's rebirth - also evokes the European recovery plan, as has been pointed out in the words of the true name of the Marshall Plan - that in the intentions of those who proposed it, obtaining recognition as necessary and urgent, should issue common debt securities to finance joint actions, in particular in support of the countries and sectors most affected by the crisis. Of course, the Italian Government is very busy these days and will be very busy in the coming weeks to ensure that these instruments are properly implemented. We are therefore faced with a global strategy for which it is good to seek and pursue - and this is the understanding of the Government - the highest degree of unity, collaboration and dialogue of all the forces of the country. It is a difficult challenge, but we think that this country is able to face it and overcome it. That is why we are calling for broad support, for a joint vote by Parliament on the request for deviation and also, for those who want to give it naturally, for the underlying Economic and Financial Document which presents the basic forecasts of the request for deviation. Then we will work together to adopt an adequate, strong and effective decree and to build and improve it together in a fruitful dialogue between the Government and Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u119	I shall refer the continuation of the joint debate on document LVII, No 3, and the attached report to Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u122	VALENT (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have asked for the floor to express the condolences of the Senators of the Democratic Party and of course my staff for the disappearance of Aldo Masullo on 24 April. Professor Aldo Masullo was for decades a reference point for colleagues and students of the University Federico II of Naples and one of the most original philosophers in the Italian panorama. Raised in the furrow of the Neapolitan philosophical school, he always proved himself able to renew it in the depths, opening to European traditions of thought even little known in Naples. Aldo Masullo was a man with a living and generous intelligence, a mild man, with a great lordship of ways, but with strong passions, starting naturally from that for study and research cultivated for the whole of life up to the civil and political commitment, which even in various forms he never abandoned, not even in recent years. The esteem and appreciation attributed to him also by the student world between the sixties and the seventies allowed him to be elected first deputy in 1972, as independent on the lists of the Italian Communist Party, and then confirmed senator in 1976. In those years, as then between 1994 and 2001, when he returned to the benches of this House, his parliamentary commitment was focused mainly on the subjects of education and the university school system, at a time when the university institution underwent a profound updating, including organizational. But he followed and worked with passion and dedication also on the issues of justice, supporting in this House a bill for the abolition of the sentence of life imprisonment from Italian law. It was not only in the institutions that Aldo Masullo reserved his best energies. Naples, a city that had been fully adopted for a long time - he, Avellinese of origin - recalls his participation at the forefront in the public life of the city, especially in two important circumstances: the first is that of the famous Assise of Palazzo Marigliano, which, especially thanks to Aldo Masullo and others, since 1991, animated the awakening of the city; the second, which I want to remember here, is the "Manifesto of intellectuals for Naples" signed by Aldo Masullo in 2004, which finds broad consensus by the public opinion of the city and availability of listening by all the local institutions. With two significant examples I want to conclude: I would like to remind you that last year, at the age of ninety-six years, Masullo had actively joined, also as a testimonial, the initiative adopted a philosopher, giving lectures to the children of high school on the project of European construction, precisely in the imminence of the new elections of the European Parliament. Over the years he had accustomed us to read about the Republic and the Morning in his speeches and to find you, in addition to the keen and piercing look of the commentator, above all a great sense of humanity. Among the many issues that I could recall I would mention only one: constant attention to the difficulties of the prison system, to the world of prisoners and to not being able to steal anyone from a community that claims to be democratic the right to hope. Up to the last one he did not fail to express his voice, intervening again on the coronavirus epidemic. He described the existential void that he felt spread, what all of us have felt in recent weeks and that today seems even greater because of his loss. From here I want to express our condolences to all his family and in particular his three children - Carlo, Paolo and Lorenzo - to whom goes my affectionate greeting and of all the PD. Because of the restrictions, Naples could not greet him. We're definitely gonna do it better. I hope that we can do so here in the Senate, to pay homage to an Italian intellectual who has certainly made the political life of his city better and I think I can say about the whole country. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u125	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to take the opportunity of this speech to demonstrate our closeness to all the people of Lombardy, my Lombardy, who in recent months is facing a tragedy as we could have imagined: friends who die and are too many to be able to list them, but we remember them all; relatives who leave us without even being able to give the last greeting. These are things that perhaps we have not fully understood in the media bolgy which, especially in recent days, is demonstrating all the limitations of today's politics. My Brianza is also paying her own blood tribute, fortunately less than other provinces, but today there is no distinction of origin. Today we are and must all be lombard. This is a message that, however, perhaps not everyone understands, given the beceri and genuinely disgusting attacks planned and organized by a certain political part that obviously does not know the respect of the other. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ; attacks that have the sole purpose of affecting the management of the Lombardy Region, because so it agrees. The Lombardy Region has done everything possible and will do the impossible to counter today and in the future an invisible, sneaky and unknown enemy. But we Lombards won't stop. We will continue to fight to start again, with every means, even when a central government, always too far away, arriving at night, tries in every way to erase the excellences that have - let alone - worked to stem the spread of the epidemic. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This far-off government, however, must understand that from Lombardy, as from every other region of the peninsula, the cry of sorrow rises more and more today. To date, those who direct in Rome remain deaf to any attempt at dialogue to alleviate the pain of the population. It is for this reason that, having to account only and exclusively to the people of any extraction, color, profession, origin, we cannot further remain silent about the systematic and intolerable distortion of democratic rights that is taking place in these weeks. That is why we are all over Parliament, which is our place of work, until there are answers for all citizens, mothers, fathers, entrepreneurs, traders, workers who do not know what to do. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They don't have any certainty. They don't know if they can reopen their stores if their kids go back to school. We will bring in the classrooms the voices of the workers, of those who suffer, of the disabled, of those who are more fragile, until the government gives clear answers. We are asking for answers, also on behalf of local mayors and administrators, on the restoration of all freedoms, in full health protection, with indications at national level. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We need certainties about the health rules in order to be able to leave safely; certain times for the integration fund, for those who are not working and real money for self-employed and entrepreneurs. We are and will remain in this Chamber also to reaffirm the importance of the certainty of the penalty and the indignation at the release of dozens of mobsters, life killers and murderers. It is high time everyone finally assumed their responsibilities, that Parliament was once again involved in decisions concerning the life, rights and freedom of each of us. It is time for us to become a fully-fledged democracy again. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u128	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, where have the children gone? The very serious global health situation requires us to protect the right to health of all, particularly the elderly and the most vulnerable, but we must be careful not to neglect the youngest, the children. Coronavirus emergency is having a strong impact on their daily lives, with long-term effects that could be dramatic. But children are no longer heard; children are no longer seen; children are not seen in the streets, in the courtyards, in front of the school gates and in the squares. They remind us of their existence the colorful signs hanging on the windows with the words: It's gonna be okay. But will everything really be okay for them in a situation of prolonged isolation? Schools have been closed since March 5, but it is in schools that you notice if a child has eaten, is clean, has bruises. There are children who have lost their sociality, smile, dance, choir, soccer, communion and confirmation. There are children who are afraid and have begun not to sleep and eat incorrectly. There are children who are losing school because they don't have a computer, a tablet, a mobile phone. Some kids don't even have a bedroom. And those who have mobile phones sometimes lose sight, but also security and safety because we know how dangerous computer tools are. We know that in Italy one in three families doesn't have one PC and one in ten families doesn't have a tablet. In some areas the Internet line is very poor. There are children who don't have school support because their parents work and their grandparents, terrified, are gone. There are parents who work in smart working and, therefore, cannot pay attention and support children in online lessons. Teachers in a few months have become computer experts, but now they are realizing that the teaching plan cannot cover the pedagogical plan and human relations. The school dispersal in Italy is 14 percent. What will be the percentage after the pandemic? We still wondered what happens in families with problems of domestic violence, drug addiction and poverty. Those children have become invisible. Social workers have reduced working hours and no longer go to their homes. Children's complaints have decreased. Then there are special children, without any external support to the family. It is a few days ago the news of a three-year-old autistic who loved to run and who ran away from home. It was found after five hours. Then there are the disputed children, children of separated and divorced. There are those who have not seen the parent for months because the jurisprudence is not unanimous in the right to move to visit the child. And, then, where does the visit, in which family, in what street if you can't go out? There are children who have been blocked, on the contrary, at the home of the unfamiliar parent and are reclaimed by the other. I should like to conclude, Mr President, with the hope that children will return, albeit gradually, to run, smile, socialize and play in the open air and that the Government - and above all the regions and municipalities - will work as quickly as possible to ensure that this happens and that no child is left unprotected. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Conzatti.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u129	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u130	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u131	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business in order to understand what has happened. I do not know if I have understood exactly the words spoken in the heat of the intervention constructed in art, but it seemed to me to understand that the colleague representative of the League has announced in all respects the occupation of the Senate Chamber; which makes me think that the League has decided to blow tomorrow the vote on the budget balances that will allow the Government and this country to make available the funds to make the interventions that Italy needs. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u132	Wait a minute! Wait a minute!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u133	[[Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Marcucci (PD). But can you shut up when someone else talks? Mr President, that was said by my colleague from the League! He's been talking about over-employment! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Marcucci, I'm going ahead with the session. Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, let me finish. Have the courtesy. Then I ask you this was yet another one, one of the many clowns made by the League, or I want to understand how you intend to proceed, how you intend to ensure the work of this House and allow this Parliament to allocate the necessary funds to deal with the emergency of Italy and all that our country deserves and needs. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u136	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, it is clear, and we must avoid this, that the Senate is being mistaken for an instrumental operation and also - as has been said - for a clown. We must avoid this because this operation started today, in the afternoon, with a statement by Senator Salvini on television, with the over-employment of the Senate. So, there was a whole adjustment, there were the sheds, they confabulated until recently, among other things with manners that remind me, colleagues - and I mean - our experiences. I, in fact, do not criticize this way of manifesting. What is critical is that I believe that this is really a crisis on the edge of the nerves by the League regarding the decline in consensus. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Colleagues, put such an attitude before the spotlight, which serves to bring you back to the limelight. We all followed the fight on the squares: square yes, square no, maybe. Then you contradicted and then Forza Italia said he didn't know. I mean, there's been this whole situation. I do not wish, Mr President, that the Senate should pay for it, but, above all, the Italian citizens, at this time when such an operation is painful. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] The country needs answers. The intervention of Senator Ferrero ended by saying that we must give answers to those who are hungry. Very well: the answers are given here, but you have to come. Senator Salvini has to come here to get the answers. If you, Senator Salvini, aren't in the Senate, and you're just here to take care of it, how do you get those answers? [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You don't come to the Senate just to take care of it, but you also come to work and not just to make the record of absences. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Mr President, you have to clarify these things, because then you have to give the answers to entrepreneurs and craftsmen. And you give them in here, with the measures, but someone must be there to collect them and to listen, because it is too easy to always play the game of propaganda and exploitation. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] Mr President, I have received a message. When I already knew - given that it was the Adnkronos that had announced it - one person wrote to me, who certainly does not vote for us, telling me that perhaps they would occupy the House, that is to say that they must demonstrate by occupying the House, among other things, putting the real work at risk. And then that person told me they're scraping the bottom of the barrel. And he doesn't vote for us. This is an operation that truly demonstrates the lack of seriousness and irresponsibility of those who, in this historical moment, tell the Italians that the answers do not give them and come here to occupy the benches. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] So, Mr President, I would ask you not to make the Senate, through you, complicit in an operation which has been widely announced, implemented and to have those senators accommodated as if the Senate were a hotel. This is not good. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u137	This morning we held a Conference of the Leaders and voted unanimously on a timetable. So, I think there is no doubt about what should be the continuation of the work. We voted. There was a Conference of Leaders and the timetable was voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u140	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, you were right to point out that this morning the Conference of Leaders unanimously agreed on the timetable for the week. So there is no statement of occupation in this House. We have said that we are all over Parliament because we want to continue to stress certain aspects of certain individual freedoms which have been totally trampled on - as Senator Emanuele Pellegrini has rightly pointed out - and to remember a whole series of reasons which are important here to underline the importance of the fact that there are no answers to so many citizens, to so many entrepreneurs who are waiting for them. Tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m. there will be an absolute guarantee that explanations of vote will begin and there will also be a vote on the deviation. By the way, you should look at all the agencies. And this concerns both the Senate and the House, where even on the deviation was confirmed by Minister Gualtieri the sense of responsibility on the part of the League in giving the green light to the authorization, while taking a different position on the DEF, but we will see this tomorrow. No work will be interrupted. There are no problems and, therefore, before speaking one should first listen well to what the fellow Member has said and inquire about what has actually been said. Some reporters may declare that we will occupy the Assembly or someone inside the Palace may think so, but we have never said such a thing and go and read the agencies well and what is written on Facebook. Maybe you can't read or you can't write or you're in bad faith. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There's no alternative. Do not try to play - I tell you - on Forza Italia, Lega e Fratelli d'Italia. Do not try to divert the difficulties that exist in your majority, and this is so true that the Council of Ministers, which was to be convened for tomorrow to start the decree, will be postponed because you have not yet managed to agree and people are still waiting for the money of the decree not in May, which is no longer April, but still March. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Look into your house. Try to solve the problems and give concrete answers to the citizens without taking it out on us that we are here to do our honest work to the full. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u143	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I do not know if they are unfamiliar with Italian, but they said that they were here all the time and this word in Italian - you teach me this - means that there is no closing time. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] So it is perfectly legitimate for President Marcucci to ask you to understand how we proceed. If, instead, since Facebook statements have been quoted, all this must be done to do some live on social media, tell us so in an hour we understand. Dear colleague Romeo, the point is that we and this country do not need scenery. The country needs seriousness. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We've been here hearing all the stupid things you said today. CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Go home! DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). You want to get rid of all the responsibilities. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What's the matter? Calm down! I said that one more time. What do you want to do here? Do you want to prevent anyone from arguing about Lombardy? [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Do you want to know what the other regions think about you? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I'm the one who decides on the direction of the works. They just asked me, so I wanted to announce and close the session. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). President, you let me finish, as you all did. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Of course I do. DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). I have been interrupted and you should also ask them when they do in here statements about the excess; you should not ask me. Is that clear, ma'am? Maybe you should ask them what they mean. Mr President, tomorrow morning we have a timetable and they have also voted on the timetable. We want to know - this means being serious or not - whether at 9.30 a.m. we can do our duty regularly, as we always do, on the contrary. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u144	Please, let's finish and then I'll finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u145	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). That being said, if you stay here all the time, you don't go out and you go in. You're all over the place, okay? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u146	Colleagues, as I understand - if I have understood correctly - that Senator Romeo said that tomorrow there will be a regular sitting at 9.30 a.m., I note that the timetable, as set out by the Capigroup unanimously, will be respected. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If so, then it will be respected and I can close the session. Mr Marcucci (PD). No! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have already said that this is the order of business. [[Senator Marcucci's comments.]] I can't hear anything outside the microphone. I'm closing the session. I don't understand what you want, Senator Marcucci. Talk to the microphone, because I can't hear it. Mr Marcucci (PD). You are very kind, Mr President, but you cannot give permission to do what? Why are they releasing the House tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m., you give permission to do what? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I give no authorization to anyone. I'm continuing the session according to your order. Let me be the president. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u147	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-29-LEG18-Senato-sed-211.ana.u148	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 30 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.07 a.m.
