ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u3	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders unanimously approved the new timetable until 20 November. The follow-up of the current week will be reserved for the work of the Commissions, with particular reference to the decree-laws presented to the Senate. Next week, Tuesday 10, at 4.30 p.m., and on Wednesday 11 November will be discussed the decree-law extending measures against the Covid-19. Thursday 12 November, at 9.30 a.m., there will be a question time with the participation of Ministers for European Affairs, Economic Development and Infrastructure and Transport. The week from 16 to 20 November will be reserved for the work of the Commissions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the new schedule of proceedings until 20 November: [[Tuesday, November 10, h. 16,30 - Drawing of law n. 1970 - Decree-Law n. 125, Extension of measures of contrast to the Covid-19 (expires on 6 December) Wednesday 11 " h. 9,30 Thursday 12 November h. 9,30 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure]] The week from 16 to 20 November will be reserved for the work of the Commissions. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No. 1970 (Decree-Law No. 125, Extension of measures against the Covid-19) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 1 h. Votes 1 h. Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 27' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 8' FIBP-UDC 1 h. 2' PD 49' Mixed 46' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, yesterday a series of terrorist attacks struck the city of Vienna, causing victims and wounded among unarmed citizens and police forces. The violent, vile aggression, in contempt of the lives of people, of the history and culture of one of the capitals of Europe, represents, not only a profound wound for Vienna, Austria and its people, but also an unacceptable threat to the values and fundamental rights of civilization and democracy. No reason, no ideology, no extenuating can justify conduct that represents crimes against humanity itself. In the face of pain, confusion and the violent deprivation of freedom, the common response, based on the condemnation without uncertainty of all intimidation and violence and, at the same time, on full solidarity and closeness to the innocent victims and to Austria as a whole, towards which we feel even closer today from ties and feelings of genuine friendship. In remembrance of the victims, with gratitude to the rescuers and in a spirit of participation towards the citizens and the Austrian institutions, I call on the House to observe a minute's silence and recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u8	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the Group for the Autonomies and Representatives of the SVP, we express our solidarity with the Austrian institutions and people for the events of last night. We feel particularly close to the families of the victims. The links between South Tyrol and the city of Vienna are ancient and profound; a friendship that, never before, we feel the need to emphasize and reaffirm. What happened was just a few days after the attacks in France. It reflects the strategy of Islamist fundamentalism to create confusion and terror at a time when Europe is all called to cope with the dramatic health emergency. This is yet another proof, if anything, of a sick and disgusting design, to which Europe must respond in a unified manner, and to which it must re-launch its commitment against all forms of fundamentalism and intolerance. Terrorism scares us, yes, but, at the same time, it increases our firmness in the wake of pain and death that sow among so many helpless and innocent citizens, whose only fault is that they found themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time. This, for all of us, is simply unacceptable. Those who sow terror, those who want to turn our cities into scenarios of war, must know, however, that Europe, in its history, has been able to defeat opponents much greater and more threatening. So, again this time, to honor the victims of a war that exists only in the disturbed minds of those who trample and manipulate a religious message to pursue purposes that have nothing to do with faith and religion. Long live freedom! Long live the Austrian people, to whom, from this House, we send the biggest and most moved embrace of which we are capable. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u11	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, also from the Italian Viva-PSI Group, I express total solidarity, closeness and condolence to the Austrian institutions, the families of the victims, the Forces of Order and all Austrian citizenship. A new attack, which is not just an attack on Austria, but on Europe as a whole, among other things a few days after the other events that had first affected Samuel Paty, the French teacher brutally slaughtered, and then later Nice, still the scene of bloody murders. Such murders do not come from Islam - it is important to reiterate this strongly within the institutions - but from Islamic terrorists, who must see us united at European level and convincedly aimed at countering these forms of brutal and fanatical violence. Compactness is important not only in the complaint, but also in the conflict. It is important for Europe to be compact in strengthening the European instruments that we have created in recent years precisely to combat terrorism. I think first of all of Eurojust, configured on the model of our National Anti-Mafia Directorate. It is an extremely profitable agency which has also shown in recent attacks, which unfortunately have in turn bloodied the main European capitals, that it is an important and valuable instrument. At European level, instruments such as this need to be strengthened, something that has not been done in the European Commission's recent proposal in relation to the budget. From the usual budget of 45 million they have been previewed cuts of several million. The appeal to the Italian Government is also to take advantage of tragic opportunities such as this to reaffirm the need to strengthen the instruments already envisaged for a contrast, as harmonious as possible at European level, to forms of terrorism such as this. Similarly, there is a need to strengthen the exchange of databases, to provide training at international level for investigative forces of both the judiciary and the police, and to strengthen joint investigation teams. At national level, too, laws need to be given and the various European decisions and directives aimed at improving cooperation at international level and, in particular, at the Community level, in order to combat terrorism as closely as possible, as well as organised crime. Mr President, in starting to conclude, I would like to reiterate that this struggle must see us united and united in countering forms of terrorism and Islamic fundamentalism, instead to stress how strongly united we are at European level for the defence of rights, freedom, freedom of opinion and expression, as we are for secularism and for what we are for a liberal conception of the State. In expressing our deep solidarity, this must also be an opportunity to reaffirm a strong political commitment, as well as to strengthen the instruments appropriate to the fight against terrorism. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u12	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u14	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, the Brothers of Italy Group also expresses to Austria, to the citizens and to the victims of this yet another terrorist attack all its solidarity between Italians and Europeans. Unfortunately, it is sad to see that in a few days in this House we have had to express our solidarity with the victims and the French people twice and now with the Austrian people. Europe is under attack. You have also said that and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also used clear words outside this House for the first time. We acknowledge this because we think that it is absolutely necessary, today more than ever, to find ourselves together in the awareness of what is the terrorist phenomenon that strikes the heart of the culture and civilization of Europe that Italy founded just starting from these. Well, feeling united against these beasts who hate our civilization and our freedoms also means reacting together in a conscious and common way. It is a clash of civilizations, indeed it is the assault on the civilization of those who do not have civilizations. We must be aware of this: it is the assault on the Christian, Jewish and Latin civilization; it is the assault on the secular civilization that founded on freedom the growth and development of our continent, teaching others the way on which to walk. On the other hand, in Islamic fundamentalism, certainly not in Islam, there is no civilization, there is hatred of civilizations and, therefore, above all, hatred of our civilization. It is precisely for this reason, and not by chance, that the symbols of our civilization are struck: the synagogue, the churches, freedom of religion for all (which we and only we perhaps succeed in sanctifying), schools and freedom of teaching, the critical, satirical and desecrating spirit, which is then creative and at the foundation of art, culture, knowledge, the growth of humanity and of each person who is part of it. They are the enemies of all this and we must defend all this because it is the foundation of our common action. They also struck, of course, the places of joy, of recreation, of worldliness. Joy, recreation and worldliness, together with religion, school and education, are also part of the civilization of light and dignity that is our civilization, while theirs belongs to the violence of darkness and darkness. Precisely because we know that there is this opposition in place, we must be united, as Italians and as Europeans, but we must also react not only by uniting ourselves in solidarity and commemoration. We must react well aware that Italy is the frontier of all this. It is the frontier, as the repeated case of Lampedusa shows, but it is also the heart of European civilization. For these reasons we ask you to act to close that border, to close the port of Lampedusa if it is the symbol of the course of terror. We ask you together to react, because only by reacting together in common measures will we be able to demonstrate to them, that they strike us in the heart and brain, that we are civilization and, as such, we will move forward and overcome the challenge of darkness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u17	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we too, of course, join in the pain and mourning of the victims of this terrorist attack and do so as a Mixed Group, as a member of Free and Equal. I think it is, as is being demonstrated in this debate, a feeling shared between colleagues and among our fellow countrymen. It was a vile, cowardly attack, because not only does it happen a few days from the events of Nice, from that horrible and disturbing event that touched the city of Paris, which was remembered, but because it happens and falls a few hours from the lockdown to which the city of Vienna was preparing. It is therefore in the heart of a Europe already under siege, frightened and frightened by a war against another enemy, just as sneaky and invisible: the virus, which is testing not only the bodies of women and men on this continent, but above all the psychological hold even of our fellow citizens and of the citizens of this continent and of the whole world. From this point of view it is a despicable attack that we must condemn without if and without but without sociological or other justifications. We are talking about people who are difficult to count in humankind who have attacked and killed innocent people. However, Mr President, with reference to the last speech I heard and following a piece of the debate that took place in parallel with the House, I think that we would make a mistake to get out of the representation given by the Austrian Federal Chancellor Sebastian Kurz - which is not exactly in tune with my political sensitivity, on the contrary, is the most distant from my idea of politics - who said, a few hours ago, that we are not faced with the opposition between the Christian world and the Muslim world, we are not talking about this and we must not talk about this, because if we give the idea that this is the representation that becomes the object of our debate, we are playing exactly the game of those terrorists who want that representation to be the real dimension, the photograph of reality. [[Applause]] It is because of this representation that they act on the levers that we must neutralize, that we must eliminate and that are within European society, in the heart of European society. In fact, Mr President, there are two things that we cannot forget: Europe is not a fortress that must erect walls and within which automatically grows an idea of democracy. Like all the great democracies, Europe lives in its contradictions and if we do not go to see first of all where those contradictions are nested, made also of material conditions and inequalities, which are exactly the levers on which the terrorist dynamic acts, perhaps we lose sight of the reasons and the ways in which fanaticism feeds its dynamics, so it feeds itself. There is a second aspect that we must take into account: Europe must regain its sense of a relationship with the rest of the world. We cannot be permanently at war with the world, from Russia to Iran, passing through Turkey, pretending that we can no longer even distinguish that within the same Islamic world there are the Shiite world and the Sunni world with a very complex articulation. Therefore, to recover the sense of politics, the sense of a strategy in international relations, also means to understand where we are in history and we must do so, Mr President, we must trigger this debate all the more in order to honour the name and memory of the innocent victims who have fallen into the vile attack of these hours, such as those we have commemorated - alas - only a few days ago.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u20	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, Vienna after Nice, two European cities that are in the midst of the history of our continent, which are open to the world and perhaps for this reason have been targeted, like our model of life and our set of values, cities that are still bloody. The horror suddenly caught us the other night, as it was for Nice, so I want to add to the solidarity and closeness expressed by you, President, to bring the Democratic Party Group's embrace to the families of the victims, to all the Austrian people and, if you allow me, in particular to the Jewish community, which has probably been targeted, and also to the Islamic Arab community, the honest one, who decided to make that place the seat of his life, which pays the price of these events that risk putting in trouble and interrupting the paths of integration. [[Applause]] In European history, the dignity of human life is the first place and in our Charter, in the European Charter itself, the values of freedom of expression, political opinion, religion and expression of their sexual orientation are sculpted. This is our story and we must not forget where we come from: we cannot deny our history. So on our continent we will never accept that they use religious hatred as an excuse for their deplorable actions. On this we will always make common front: they cannot use religion to justify their atrocious actions. Those who commit these acts - and we tell the youngest, even the Islamic communities - are not martyrs, are criminals and this must be clear at all levels. [[Applause]] He did well yesterday Kurz to use certain words, which I would also like to remember in an exact way. Kurz, who is a popular leader of a right-wing government, said very clearly that it is not a war between Christians and Islamics, it is not a war between Austrians and migrants, but it is a war between those who want peace and the few who want war. I think that this is the furrow within which to stand, because the temptation is evidently to close, to renounce our freedoms and to follow only a safe path. However, making us close down our history and our freedoms is precisely the aim of those terrorists and we must clearly rebel against this attitude. This is not enough, it is clear, because social and cultural measures are needed, as well as security measures and mere national measures are not enough. Today we win, if we have a response at European level, at cultural and solidarity level. When we are struck, it is not that we are all French or all Austrians: we are all Europeans and we need measures at European level. I would like to take up one of the points raised by Senator Garavini: we have a very important challenge. We have had a great deal of trouble to say to the European Public Prosecutor that now, under Article 86 of the Treaty and the founding regulation, he can only prosecute crimes that harm the Union's financial interests. However, it is already foreseen that its competence can be extended, with the possibility of prosecuting crimes from the point of view of the infiltrations of organised crime and Islamic terrorism. Well, I think the time has come to make a qualitative leap, to have no fear and delay. I believe that this is a battle to be fought together, that all the senators and all the Members can support by sending out a very clear message: we need European measures to tackle international terrorism. No, therefore, to the sovereign shortcuts and yes, to a stronger Europe to defeat and face those challenges that we are no longer able to face alone today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u23	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion too we have heard loud words of outrage from the President of the European Commission, from Mr Gentiloni Silveri and others, but these are words that unfortunately hide a great powerlessness of Europe. Here, too, I have heard statements that, for goodness sake, we cannot but share: it has been said that there is a cultural theme, a theme of integration. All the facts are not yet clear: I read just now that in Austria a minister contested the behaviour of the protagonist of the Vienna bombing, who would have deceived - I still don't know in what ways - the de-radicalisation programmes launched in Austria. Certainly, in fact, we must redeem people, bring them from a fundamentalist position to a normal exercise of their religious practices; however, to me it has struck a lot in these years that almost always - for now we have not understood it well for Vienna - for all the protagonists of the attacks, if you have noticed, after a few minutes or a few hours they knew their history, their biography, where they had fought, relatives in Libya or, as in the case in Spain, that the bomber was in a sort of illegal mosque. They were all known and known: at least 90% of the protagonists of the attacks that had been recorded and identified as fundamentalists by the United Kingdom, France and Spain. Then is it time or not for a preventive action, even a stop, of those who, known, cannot be left free until they decide to kill, around the corner, the first passing? It is a tough choice, but perhaps it should be hypothesized, because many of these characters then end up killed - happen to us - in the inevitable conflicts on fire, which have been there even in recent days, in France or following the attack in Barcelona. Anis Amri and many others were killed, killed and suffered an inevitable death penalty, following the action of the police forces who intervened. If they were held back first, perhaps the penalty for them would be lighter than the one they then face. Europe must therefore raise this problem: if we know people who foment hatred and who have now become involved in an activity not of religious law, but of religious radicalism, which prepares massacres, perhaps we need rules such as those that democratic Italy has enacted in the years of internal terrorism. We faced those years with special laws, which in ordinary times would not be done. I see that even in France, the other day, the Minister of a country that makes democracy and freedom its pride, spoke of a European Guantanamo. We also need to clarify at international level, ladies and gentlemen, the position of Turkey, a country that we have considered as a friend and which is part of NATO. Turkey must explain to us whether it flanks and backs fundamentalist temptations, from Libya to other places in North Africa and the East, or whether it wants to be part of the European Union, as well as NATO: there are ambiguities. Vienna is, moreover, a symbolic place: besieged at the end of the seventeenth century, it was the scene of one of the epic clashes of civilizations. We can deny it or not, but there is also a clash of civilizations and history, which we must prevent and defuse, but we must not ignore what happened in Nice or Paris days ago, where a professor was slaughtered, because he explained cartoons, beautiful or ugly. To which Christian would it be thought to slaughter someone, why does someone disrespect the Catholic religion, if not a mad criminal? A normal person would never think so, even though we often see and read things that we do not share. In conclusion, Mr President, there is also a question of foreign policy. I agree with the distinction between different strands and we do not take lessons in this House. In Egypt, for example, realities that many do not like, al-Azhar, the imam of that cultural and religious reality, al-Tayyib, is one of the greatest enemies of fundamentalism. Today Egypt is a bulwark against terrorism. Some people in Italy consider it almost an enemy country to boycott. So let us begin to say these things and also to be careful in Italy. Not everyone who lands is terrorists, we know that, but terrorists also land. In Italy, we proceed with those who block the landings and give hospitality and protection to those who, by disembarking, prepare murders around Europe. [[Applause]] If even today 1,000 people are landing in Lampedusa, many will be unfortunate to help, but among them there may also be the misplantation of hatred, radicalism and Islamic fundamentalism. So we ask that, in addition to European measures, Italy block the entry of illegal immigrants [[Applause]] It's not the dismantling of the decrees! No more rhetoric, colleagues! We are besieged and the siege imposes a response of civilization, but also of firmness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u26	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, of course, ours can only be a heartfelt embrace that we give to the people of Vienna and Austria, but that we extend to everyone, as it should always be, even for what unfortunately happened last week in France. You see, Mr President, we are perhaps getting used to the ritual of coming to this House to intervene to commemorate this kind of happening. Getting used to these situations, however, cannot be defined as normal. I am referring to the previous speeches, because, Mr President, it is certainly true that not all Islamics are terrorists, but one cannot ignore that these terrorists are all Islamic. [[Applause]] We cannot ignore, Mr President, the fact that we do not want to foment the clash of civilizations, that today there is a Turkey which is far from secular, which foments the clash of civilizations. It cannot be ignored, even in the management of relations between Europe and Turkey, because if things have happened in France, a responsibility must be sought in Ankara. The responsibilities must be taken and we must be strong. I say this to Senator La Forgia who spoke before me saying that Europe has no walls, it has no fortress to defend. Yes, it has and is made of values, identity, culture, centuries of professed freedom. [[Applause]] Someone armed the hand of these who are crazy, because of course they are always crazy (if he goes to kill, a person cannot be sane); however, when they kill in the name of God, in the name of Allah, they do it because someone armed their hand. I don't know if we'll ever be able to disarm that hand, but I know we have values to protect, and I know that if these walls made of values aren't kept, they crumble. Then we cannot give up these values; in the name of a melancholy, indiscriminate reception, we cannot deny that there is a basic cultural difference, that there are values of freedom that we must strongly profess, to which we cannot give up. [[Applause]] That professor in Paris, in fact, has not renounced the values of freedom, even to profess an opinion against it, and he has lost his life. What happened yesterday in Vienna is nothing more than a source of so many attacks that we have commemorated in recent years, from the one against Charlie Hebdo going back in time. Mr President, there are also things that shock us and that we need to be reassured about, such as finding out that that terrorist in Nice was one of the many so-called refugees who arrived in Lampedusa who are not refugees, but who, as we have seen, arm themselves and kill people. In these three days more than 2,000 people have landed in Lampedusa, all in total silence. There is also a struggle on the part of mainstream communication to tell things; there is difficulty when we talk about these attacks to refer to fundamentalist Islam, to say the word: "Islam" [[Applause]] There is difficulty in saying that those who are disembarking in Lampedusa are at risk of infiltration into Europe for Islam; there is difficulty in recognizing these things [[Applause]] We need and ask the government to have security. We call for these values to be defended, Mr President, because otherwise that blood will also have been shed for nothing and we will still be here tomorrow to commemorate and we do not want that. We have strong walls of identity, culture, history and freedom, do we want to defend them? What you propose to us is the sleep of reason. We say: wake up, the time is running out! Wake up, let's defend these walls of freedom! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u29	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, the 5 Star Movement is closing to the Viennese people during these dramatic hours, expressing to them the greatest solidarity and closeness, in particular to the families of the victims of this horrendous new attack that is again affecting Europe. This House is with you and does not leave you alone. [[Applause]] The terrorist violence that religion uses as a pretext to sow fear in our society, already challenged by the crisis caused by the pandemic, risks destabilising our democracies by blowing on the fire of intolerance and political extremism. For this reason it represents an enemy that must be fought with coldness and lucidity, without further feeding fear and hatred, without exploitation. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs Di Maio said today, it is objectively necessary and urgent to improve controls on those who enter Europe and, therefore, the sharing of intelligence with the countries of origin to avoid the entry and the permanence on our territory of wolves disguised as lambs, terrorists who mix with migrants and refugees with the intended aim of carrying out attacks, as happened for the Tunisian of Nice. What happened in Vienna, however, at least from the information available so far, has to do with the problem of the radicalisation of second generation immigrants. The Vienna bomber is, in fact, a twenty-year-old Austrian citizen born in Austria from a Macedonian family of Albanian origin, who radicalized himself to join the ISIS. This is therefore the need for investment in integration, but also for greater controls on mosques, cultural centres, associations in which fundamentalist propaganda and proselytism are carried out. This means better intelligence on certain environments, such as those connected to the international movement of the Muslim Brotherhood, carried out with the indispensable collaboration of our moderate Islamic communities and the Islamic countries, from which they start financing these organizations. In conclusion, allow me to reflect on the perspective, in the hope that what is happening will serve us not to repeat the mistakes of the past in the future. We all know, in fact, how the West, which is under attack today by these criminals, has blown for decades on the fire of Islamic fundamentalism, when this was useful for our geopolitical purposes in Afghanistan, the Caucasus, the Balkans, the Middle East and North Africa. Mr President, it is our historical responsibility to close in the lamp the evil genius that unfortunately we have helped to free and that now threatens all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u32	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to speak at the end of the sitting, hoping to have the attention of all my fellow Members, for a very serious matter. In these hours, which should see the Government engaged to face the second wave of health emergency, due to the inconsistency of what has been done in recent months, sources of press have anticipated a draft decree-law that would concern the ill-advised decision to prolong the commissioning of health in Calabria. Beyond the fact that a new Calabria decree (I still remember the first: a Chinese box of a commissioner, with a sub-commissary, with a deputy sub-commissary) is a huge waste of money, removed from Calabrian health, it is in contrast to the constitutional principles reaffirmed by the Consulta, that in ruling, with the judgment n. 233 of 2019, on the constitutionality of the aforementioned emergency legislative provision, it stated that it constituted a regulatory intervention not ordinary, but extraordinary, in order to address with determination and speed the attempt to ferry the Calabrian health to normal situations. I assume, however, that the evidence is not this, at this time the Calabria Region, following the elections of January 2020, has undertaken a virtuous path, aimed at returning the management of the regional health service to canons of effectiveness and efficiency. All the more reason, Commissioner, when it was practically identified as a red zone, it means taking away the means to fight a war. [[Applause]] The enactment of a new decree-law on the commissioning of police officers would seriously undermine regional competences in the field of health protection. We all cannot and must not forget that the government commissioners who have alternated in the last ten years should have rebuilt the government of health in Calabria, even before it was restored. Instead, all these Commissioners have only increased regional spending. And do you want to extend and renew the measure? Good. Commissioner's management of Calabrian health has been going on for ten years. Ten years in which the quality of the services provided has deteriorated and the journey of hope has increased. I see the microphone is blinking, so I'm gonna have to take my word off soon, because maybe I don't like what I'm saying...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u33	Senator, that's not how it happens when I'm presiding. I'll let you finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u34	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Thank you and I'm sorry. The Calabria Region is currently governed by the center-right. It is surprising to me that one of the majority parties, the political expression of Presidents Zingaretti and De Luca, almost denies a winning model to focus on a commissioner model that has failed for ten years. Again, the usual agencies and newspaper reports say that perhaps Dr Arcuri would have chosen for commissioner to implement the health building projects to be financed under Article 20 and the other programs signed with the Ministry of Health: a match that exceeds the billion euros of funds in part committed, in part to be committed, but certainly to be spent. Or is it the assist for Arcuri's candidacy as President of the Calabria Region? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have to finish. Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Do you really want to give so much power to a person who has clearly demonstrated the slowness and inability to handle emergencies? I hope the government will reconsider. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u35	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u37	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, at this particular and extraordinary moment in which the pandemic is changing and disrupting our relations and our social life, I would like to bring to your attention a story that, in its simplicity and ordinaryity, but with its profound humanity, must make us reflect and give the inspiration for some simple considerations. Similar situations certainly take place every day in our country, even if with different motivations, but all are united by a single common denominator: the great heart of many of our fellow citizens. A pediatrician from Naples, Dr. Eduardo, is called to visit at his home a little sick child; his family lives with deep dignity and simple soul his serious economic difficulties, exacerbated by the emergency of the moment. Well, Dr. Eduardo, well understanding the objective and evident family problems, lends his work with professionalism, but rejects any economic recognition: this action which, respecting the oath of Hippocrates, represents the demonstration of how very often, even in simple gestures, the human soul manages to express the best of itself. Dr. Eduardo simply does what every doctor does normally and daily: answer the health question of every citizen, but at the same time empathy in his social problems. This is the heavy task that many health professionals, in a different and qualifying way, carry out with competence, professionalism and humanity, in many and difficult environmental contexts. You can be the best professionals for skills, but without humanity or empathy with the patient you will never be able to help in all those who are sick and need our professional help. The patient comes first and foremost. Doctors should not be considered heroes, but merely men in their souls and actions. Finally, Mr President, the special attention given to the most fragile or weaker persons must not be the exception, but the rule and normality, both in the medical profession and in general in the life of a community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u38	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u40	CROATTI (M5S). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is a time of great difficulty for our country - needless to say - but also a very important phase and we have the enormous responsibility to lay the foundations for a restart and for the future of Italy. In the dramatic crisis that we are experiencing there are challenges and opportunities that we have a duty to reap, because some processes of epochal changes are accelerating their path in an upset society, which sees its paradigms mature. One of the models that is rapidly changing is that of the energy sector: all the larger countries are completing their energy transition from fossil sources to renewable sources. This is one of the biggest challenges of our country for the enormous consequences on the economy, pollution and employment, but unfortunately - I regret to say - we are wasting too much time and perhaps even precious opportunities; the delays on the Pitesai, the Plan for the sustainable energy transition of the suitable areas, testify. The lack of this national energy plan is a problem that has a negative impact on different levels: it creates uncertainty and blocks private initiatives; it creates conflicts and divisions on territories and local authorities are spread out with uneven approaches. The government must play a decisive role; we cannot waste time. It is an alarm that I launch to this Government, which I support; there are many other aspects on which it is acting effectively in the area of sustainability. On the subject of energy transition there is a serious delay; we cannot delegate planning to local authorities and, above all, the management of individual projects. It is a visual that they evidently cannot have; it is an overall vision that there is not on the territories. You run the risk of causing damage instead of solving it. What is happening in my province of Rimini, with the offshore wind power plant, is very emblematic It is a situation of great uncertainty. A private designer designs a mega wind farm with huge landscape impact, just 10 kilometers from the coast (5 miles). This stretch of coast is a place of great tourist vocation and this naturally generates divisions and discussions, both among citizens and among associations and, above all, among the local authorities involved. It is precisely the Pitesai that is missing, that is, the regulatory tool of reference to plan, to put the necessary stakes, to enhance the environmental and socio-economic sustainability of the different areas of our country. This instrument should have told the private that, if you focus on sustainability, then that project must be truly sustainable and that impacting landscape, as happens in Rimini, with 50 wind turbines 200 meters high a few kilometers from the coast, on one of the most known and loved beaches of our country, is not an acceptable approach on the way to decarbonisation. It is clear to everyone that it is difficult to reach a compromise between opposing needs that focus on sustainability, the protection of the environment and that of the landscape. Here the state must enter the field and work, cut, sew a compromise that is respectful of the peculiarities and riches of the different areas of our country. It is impossible to follow the path leading to the necessary and urgent energy transition if we do not build a clear and coherent path. We must now absolutely run and we cannot stand firm on this objective. I close by quoting Lucio Anneo Seneca, who says there is no favorable wind for a sailor who doesn't know where to go. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u41	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u43	(M5S). Mr President, I should like to leave it to the Minutes that, since the Minutes of the sitting of 27 October last, I noted that, during the vote on draft law No 1721, at the fourth vote, the device I used in the gallery did not detect my vote in favour, because the tablet went out at the time when the President declared the vote closed. I therefore call for both my presence and my vote to be recorded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u44	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-272.ana.u45	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 17.24.
