ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:39 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand]] Senators, I would like to address a moving thought of closeness and condolence to the family, relatives and friends of Senator Carla Nespolo, who died last Sunday after a long illness. Woman of lively intelligence and strong moral principles, Carla Nespolo was among the main protagonists of many social, cultural and legislative battles in our history. Born in the darkest and most dramatic years of the Second World War, in an Italy divided by hatred and fratricidal violence, Carla Nespolo had not made the resistance but had inherited its spirit, together with an unconditional love for those ideals of freedom and democracy that are the heart of our Constitution. On those ideals he built his life and work first as a teacher and then as a woman of value at the service of citizens and institutions. A journey started very young as provincial councillor in Alexandria at only twenty-seven years and culminated with his election first to the Chamber of Deputies and then to the Senate of the Republic. During her four parliamentary mandates, Carla Nespolo was a signatory and rapporteur of important draft laws in the fields of work, education, women's rights, environmental and territorial protection; a political commitment always lived with passion, coherence, tireless fidelity to her ideals, intelligence and non-common openness to dialogue and democratic confrontation, that same passion that marked her action within the Italian National Partisan Association of which she was the first woman president. Always present at every event and every anniversary, as long as the disease has granted it, it has never stopped defending, telling and passing on, especially to the younger generations, the historical and cultural heritage of the Resistance. With Carla Nespolo leaves us an extraordinary woman, the example of a combative and determined spirit to always demonstrate the inestimable value of a country truly free from abuse, abuse and violence. In remembrance of Senator Carla Nespolo, I therefore call on the House to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]] [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u7	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, from 1976 to 1983 and senator from 1983 to 1992, Carla Nespolo has been president of the Italian National Partisan Association for the last three years, the first female president, the first non-partisan. As the President of the Republic Sergio Mattarella recalled, with Carla Nespolo we lose a passionate witness and a fervent supporter of the values of the Constitution. As a teacher he began his work of educational and cultural contrast to all forms of violence and racism, then continued in his parliamentary commitment and then in the leadership of the ANPI. For reasons of identity, Carla Nespolo had not fought the Resistance, but she was undoubtedly partisan in ideas and ideals, a deep acquaintance of history and its value. His passion also explains the intransigent contrast to xenophobia. In an interview with Republic of 21 February 2018, he said: One thing must be clear: Fascism finds its cultural humus in racism. The two things must be fought together: telling the poor that their enemies are the poorest is the most undemocratic and unjust thing that can be done. Some may wonder what a partisan association such as the one presided over by Carla Nespolo is serving today, seventy-five years after the Liberation, until his death. In addition to fighting the malerba of fascism, it is Carla Nespolo himself who gives us the meaning and value of this presence even today. During the terrible twenty months of war, the partisans experienced the strength of unity and managed to be together, while coming from different worlds. This is what it takes to make a country free and democratic. Keeping alive the memory of that commitment and sacrifice that lies at the very foundations of the birth of our Republic and the writing of our Constitution is an important civic and political duty. Carla Nespolo did it first without having directly lived the commitment to the Resistance. Today the witness of memory and of the fight against every fascism must pass to someone younger, who will make himself a new witness for everyone. Carla Nespolo was able to make the National Partisan Association of Italy and its values of democracy not a reliquary to be honored, but an experience at the service of all to continue to build the future. Hi, Carla. Hello, Commander. Bella, hey. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u10	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I would like to thank the House for its opportunity to do what I think can only be a double commemoration. On the one hand, in fact, we remember the figure of Carla Nespolo in the role she exercised all the more and especially in the final phase of her existence, without taking anything away from the important biography that she herself, President, recalled, namely that she was the first woman in charge of a great organization, even very complex. In fact, many do not know the internal dynamics of the National Association of Italian Partisans. The first woman in charge of such an important and complex organization has carried out her function with great determination, with stubbornness and also with great sensitivity, such as the one that only a woman can bring into such a context. Who has attended her, who has had this privilege in the most difficult months of her existence, before Carla died, can tell us and told us about how strong her determination to carry on the exercise of her function until the last minute available and until the last physical resource available. Smuraglia, president emeritus of the Association, tells of when Carla recently called him in the middle of the night because he was harassed by the fact that it was necessary to reason and take a position on a political affair. Carla Nespolo was in fact this and interpreted her function in this sense, in a living relationship with Italian society and with the world of associationism, above all she never took away and never took away her association with the important matches of Italian politics, assuming from time to time the position that she thought was the right one, that is to be on the side of the Constitution and in defense of her values. Carla Nespolo was all of this. President, in these few minutes that are offered to us there is, however, a further significance of this commemoration that naturally lives because of the memory and memory of Carla Nespolo. The opportunity that we must give ourselves and that above all we must provide to the country in a debate that must be increased in scale, in the public debate, must revolve around a question: what does it mean to be anti-fascist in Italy today? This was an assailant of Carla Nespolo, as it was of all the presidents of the National Association of Italian Partisans who preceded it. There are, Mr President, two enemies that we must fight, beyond belonging to the political fields. On the one hand, a sort of creeping revisionism, which exists in our country, more or less explicit, and which confuses in a scam way the piety that we must have for the dead, all, and the victims, all, with the idea that we must preserve and preserve, according to which in every passage of history there are those who sit on the side of reason and who instead deliberately decide to stand on another side. This is an important point that must be preserved and that must be part of the shared heritage of an entire community and of an entire country. There is, however, a second more devious enemy, and on this Carla fought and exercised his function in the name of this contrast. That is, the idea that there is not only a page in the dark history of this country that recalls the story of fascism, because the return fascism does not need to be divided in order to reappear in history, but it enters into the folds of society in a more insidious and subtle way because it has a different face: that of abuse, violence, denial of differences, racism, contrast to absolute value, which is that of peace. We often forget this word also in our discussions and how important it is. Here is the lesson of an important figure like that of Carla Nespolo, that is the idea that the values of Resistance and antifascism are the values of our constitutional roots and are not relegatable simply to a page of history, but must live the relationship with society. In this respect, it is very important that the previous speaker emphasized this because it is an unprecedented but fundamental step. Carla wasn't a partisan in the historical sense; she didn't participate in the Resistance, it wasn't just for personal reasons, but the choice of ANPI fell on her figure also because she wasn't a partisan in the historical sense. But Carla partisan was, because she knew where to stand; she knew that she had to stand on the side of the Constitution and in this sense I think she should be remembered, precisely, as a partisan. Because a person who works and fights in the sign of freedom dies also for freedom as every partisan. Thank you, Carla, for what you did. We're gonna miss you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u13	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, Antonio Gramsci wrote: I hate the indifferent. I think living means being partisans. Carla Nespolo did not make the Resistance, but lived intensely and politically; he showed what it means to be partisans for freedoms, for the Constitution. For this reason she became president of ANPI; first woman, first president who did not make the Resistance. Our memory is for its intense and authentic civil passion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u16	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the most recurrent adjective in remembering Carla Nespolo these days. I too want to use it for the amount of his life and his political, institutional and civic commitment. Carla Nespolo left at seventy-seven years, after a long political activity, carried out inside and outside the institutions, spent uninterruptedly to make the democratic conscience more robust, stronger institutions, stronger commitment to the improvement of national society, which, for her and her political part, meant workers' rights, social justice, fight against all forms of discrimination, economic and gender. Parliamentary of the Italian Communist Party and the PDS, elected in Piedmont, declined his work in the Chamber, first, and the Senate, then, dealing with reform of secondary school, broadcasting emitency, environment and problems of emancipation of women. Therefore, the first woman - it has been said - elected president of ANPI and first president not to have participated directly, for personal reasons, in the Resistance. But precisely for this reason it is important his experience and the work he has done as a bridge, as a generation bridge between a before and after. These are elements that have marked his commitment to the ANPI. I am thinking of the setting up of the Memorial of the Resistance, a deposit of collective memory; but I am thinking above all of how he intended to be the manager of the ANPI. Luciana Castellina defined it as a great partisan of the present era, a fighter who interpreted her role as a commitment to take sides on one side and who fought a lot for the celebrations of April 25, until the end. I would like to quote what he said about memory: the ANPI serves to continue a memory that is not rhetorical, but struggles for the construction of a better country. And starting again from the Constitution means exactly not to start again as before. Yes, because the link between the liberation struggle and the Constitution was the figure of its political commitment and the message it intended to support, branch out and transmit to the generations of today and tomorrow. Fighting against all forms of discrimination and racism, because, as has been said and as you have said on several occasions, you have strongly felt and affirmed that racism is the basis of the return fascism. Fighter, he was not afraid and afraid to take sides, even with battles that could be lonely at the beginning, but that, thanks to his courage, were not; in the front row to mobilize against the facts of Macerata, to call for civic responsibility and mobilization of people against all kinds of fear and to defend the values of our Constitution. Fighter to put out any form of reconstruction of neo-fascist and neo-Nazi parties. However, it is also a fighter for another aspect, which is very topical, which has characterized the generation of yesterday and today that has built Republican democracy in our country. Fighter for unity, Republican unity. I cannot forget, having participated with you in an institutional demonstration on 25 April, your irritation at one of the speeches that took place that morning, of open political controversy at a time that had to be institutional - and not neutral - for this reason. Fighting for unity, because antifascism is the connotation of our republican unity. Fighter for women. The Resistance was not only male - he said it several times - and it was not only armed: the laymen, the gappists were women and were fundamental and women animated the insurrectional strikes made at that time. He intervened in 1985 on the ratification of the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, adopted in New York, and denounced the delay of our country. He said that the laws that have marked the history of millions of women in our country have at the same time marked the path and development of Italian democracy for all, men and women. Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. The Constitution, freedom, unity of Europe and openness to the world were the building blocks and inspirations of the imprint that Carla Nespolo wanted to accentuate for the Association she chaired. An example that pushes us to work for a country that finds today the strength and unity to overcome a difficult moment in its history. I quote Carla again: "The ability to design a better world starting from a tragic story is something we can learn from the partisan struggle." He said that on April 24 of this year. The responsibility that Carla Nespolo felt on her shoulders must also be ours, in order to be consistent with the ideas that push us to make politics, to pay homage and continue the work that Carla has done over the decades, for the sake of our country and of the generations of today and tomorrow. His family, ANPI, his friends and the city have the sympathy and affection of the Senate PD Group. For those who have militated with what has been his political part, today we greet a brave, combative and consistent companion with his ideals. For those who have then shared with you the institutional commitment and who today represent Parliament, we salute a witness to the policy lived as a service and as a commitment to the common good. For the citizens, all and especially for the younger ones, we greet a patriot of the Republican Constitution, an identity figure that unites and represents an entire people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u17	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u19	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, by joining, also on behalf of the Forza Italia Group, the expression of condolence for the disappearance of Carla Nespolo, I too would like to recall the commitment of this woman in Republican and post-war Italy and her role as president of the National Association of Italian Partisans (ANPI). She was represented for many years by fighters and now, for a generational fact, she has representatives who have no longer participated in the war of liberation (or class struggle or civil war). For Carla Nespolo I would call Bobbio, who gave the exact definition of the period between 1943 and 1945, with a reference to all those who at that time and in that historical context thought they were in the right and the right way. I come from a land of the Garibaldi Brigades and, therefore, I would like to say that the Constitution was the true masterpiece, because it was the union of what Bobbio called civil war. ( [[Applause]] ). In fact, it was possible to put together the three instances that Carla Nespolo represented - I remember a day when he referred to Bobbio - and that from September 8, 1943 led us to April 25, 1945 and, on January 1, 1948, to this Constitution. That is why the memory of Carla Nespolo is a warning but also a commitment to the protection of the Constitution, which she defended to the end, without even having the doubt to side with the losing side in the last referendum. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u22	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the death of Senator Carla Nespolo, President of the National Association of Italian Partisans, leaves a great void not only for those who have known and esteemed her, but for all those who recognize themselves in the values of the Resistance, from which our Republic and our Constitution were born. Daughter of a partisan of the Langhe and nephew of Commander Amino Pizzorno, as has been said, Carla was a fighter and knew all the atrocities of the fascist twenty years. She was also a fighter because, until the last of her days, she continued to manifest, even from a hospital bed, all her commitment to freedom and justice in defense of the last, those whom she considered the oppressed of our everyday life, always standing alongside those who do not renounce the dream of a more just, more supportive and more equal country. She was a pedagogist, a senator before the Communist Party and then the Democratic Party of the Left, but above all a woman able to claim always and everywhere any battle that in the last fifty years has served to change the conservative culture of this country. It is no coincidence, therefore, that she was the first woman to assume the role of president of ANPI, generating, moreover, a great attention from the new generations for this glorious association. When we talk about the Resistance to young people - said Carla Nespolo - we must not do it as if we were telling a season of nostalgia, but talking about their future, because this is the Resistance: the sacrifice of men and women massacred in the name of the Nazi-fascist ideology, which made it possible to cultivate the precious seed of democracy and which marked a watershed between two ideas of the world, between those who struggle for freedom and those for its denial. Democracy for all, even for those who were defeated at the time, and for all freedom and equality, without discrimination of sex, race, language, religion and political opinions: this was the dream of the partisans, who lived and live in the will to change the world and which Carla Nespolo proudly embodied. To be anti-fascist today - he said - means to be against racism and against those who also take advantage of the social crisis to make our country regress politically, culturally and morally; attempts, these, all too often made to pursue easy and ephemeral electoral consents and that denote a valuable drift from which she, together with the ANPI, continued to resist as a watchman of our democracy. In this commitment a young political force such as the Movimento 5 Stars is fully recognized with its militants and its representatives in Parliament, aware, especially at a stage of so acute difficulty for citizens, that the institutions inherited from the Resistance must be defended every day in the country and in Parliament, safeguarding their proper functioning and the delicate balance between the Republican powers. These balances, precisely today, with the country precisely struggling with an unprecedented economic and social emergency, which calls us all to a unitary effort for reconstruction equal to what the Constituents knew to produce in the dramatic years of the post-war period, involve a religious respect for the roles, to which the President of the Republic Mattarella invites us, so that the Government can do its work and the Chambers supervise, legislate and accompany this effort loyally, avoiding that their most illustrious representatives abandon themselves to inappropriate invasions of the field. [[Applause]] This is the republican loyalty to which we, heirs and beneficiaries of the enormous and noble legacy of the Resistance, are called to practice strictly in the interests of all democratic citizens of this country, also and especially today, in the name of Carla Nespolo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u23	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u24	Mr President, I would also like to mention Carla Nespolo for three brief profiles. First of all, I would like to remind you of your long political activity, which has always been firmly rooted in deep moral convictions, ideals and principles for which you have fought with a deep, unbreakable and rare coherence. Then I want to remember Carla Nespolo as a woman, not only engaged in so many battles for women's rights, but also because her own life was a testimony, I would say a manifesto, against all gender stereotypes, so deeply rooted - as we know or not - in the political world, as shows also, last, her being the first woman to play the role of president of ANPI. Finally, I would like to remember and take from memory as the spiritual heritage of Carla Nespolo, for all of us, these words: The very meaning of our commitment as ANPI, but more generally as Democrats and anti-fascists, is to combat indifference. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u27	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, since today we have returned, as our custom, to his memory, when some senator or character who is worthy of particular mention disappears, as in this case Carla Nespoli, let us just point out - and we are sorry - that, even on the occasion of the memory of a missing person, there are political groups that use this opportunity to instrumentally attack present parties or ideas that are represented in our country. I really find it an incredible squalor. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u28	The next item is the joint debate on draft law Nos. 1912 and 1913. The reporters, Senators Gallicchio and Bottici, requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur on draft law No 1912, Senator Gallicchio. 10:17 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the general state statement is the instrument through which the Government is accountable to Parliament for the results of budgetary management and consists of two parts: the budget account and the asset account. A supplementary note shall be attached to the accounts for each administration. The statement is accompanied by an economic statement and an illustrative report, the state's eco-account, which illustrates the findings of the environmental expenditure of the central government of the State, or of the expenditure for the protection of the environment and the use and management of natural resources. On the basis of the accounting findings, the management of competence achieved, in 2019, the improvement of all balances compared to the final forecasts, as well as the differential results recorded in the previous year. In particular, the net balance to be financed, given the difference between final revenue and final expenditure, is positive, of approximately €2.3 billion, i.e. 0.1% of GDP, with an improvement of almost €22.3 billion compared to the balance recorded in 2018, which had been at least €20 billion. The improvement in the balance is around €59.7 billion, 104 percent, compared with the final forecast of 2019, which still indicated a negative balance value of less than €57.4 billion. The result gives rise to a net credit in contrast to previous years, in which there was a debt due to the increase of the final revenues, increased by 14 billion euros, and the reduction of the final expenses, reduced by 8.3 billion euros. The use of the financial market, which is the difference between the final revenue and the total expenditure, including those relating to the repayment of loans, amounts to less than 217.6 billion, with an impact on GDP of 12.2%, with an improvement of 7.5 billion compared to 2018. It is therefore confirmed the trend in decrease, recorded already last year, of 225.1 billion euros. It is worth noting that both the net balance to be financed and the use of the market recorded in the statement are both below the maximum limit set by the fiscal law of 2019, the ceiling established, respectively, in less 68,179 billion euros and in 299,687 billion euros. The figure recorded by the net balance to be financed is to be traced back to a management of competence that shows an increase of the final revenue surveys, with more 14 billion euros compared to the previous year, mainly due to the increase of the tax revenues, with a more 12,7 billion euros, and a reduction of the commitments of the final expenses pairs to 8,3 billion euros. It also confirms the significant impact on the total commitment of social security policies, which stood at 15.7% of primary expenditure, compared to 17% in 2018, and economic-financial and budgetary policies, which stood at 16.1 percent, an increase of 0.7 percentage points compared to 15.4 percent in 2018. School education accounts for 9.1 percent of primary expenditure, slightly higher than in the previous year, where it accounted for 9 percent. As a percentage of commitments, there was also an increase for the Social Rights Mission, which now accounts for 6.8 percent of primary expenditure, compared to 6.2 in 2018. Overall, final revenue was estimated at around EUR 605.6 billion, or 103.6 percent of the final forecast, estimated at EUR 584.78 billion. As regards residual management, the account of those from the 2018 and previous financial years indicated at the beginning of the financial year assets of 203,940 million euros and liabilities of 140,364 million euros, before the residuals relating to the repayment of loans, with an active surplus of 63,576 million euros. On the asset side of the initial stock from previous years of EUR 203,940 million, EUR 154,711 million was established in the financial year, of which EUR 29,116 million was collected and EUR 125,095 million still to be paid or collected. In addition to these past residues, following the management of competence, EUR 91,066 million of newly formed residues were added, for a total of active residues, at 31 December, amounting to EUR 216,161 million, an increase of EUR 12,200 million compared to the previous year, with a more than 6%. As regards the remaining liabilities, of the EUR 140,364 million from previous years, 121,113 million were established, of which 44,723 million were paid and 73,390 million still to be paid. These past residues increased, as a result of the management of responsibility, by EUR 37,624 million, for a total of liabilities, at the end of the year, of EUR 114,014 million. Overall, the 2019 residue account exhibits active residues of EUR 216,161 million and liabilities of EUR 114,014 million, with an active surplus of EUR 102,147 million. On the general account of the assets (which, as we know, is the accounting document that annually provides the balance sheet of the State as it results from the closure of the financial year), the results of the financial year show a passive surplus of about 1,916 billion euros, with a deterioration of approximately 13 billion euros compared to the financial position of 2018. This result, while being the smallest of the last decade, is in line with the trend of recent years, considering that in 2018, on 2017, the deterioration amounted to €27,5 billion and in 2017, on 2016, of €77.4 billion. In percentage terms, the deterioration in assets was around 0.6 per cent in 2019, which is the lowest value of the last decade. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u30	I call the rapporteur on draft law No 1913, Senator Bottici.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u31	Mr President, in initiating the examination of draft law n° 1913, concerning the adjustment of the State budget for the financial year 2020, I would like to stress that, in accordance with Article 33 of the Law on Accounting and Public Finance, the measure under discussion is responsible for providing in the middle of the year, and therefore in the current financial year, the updating of the budget appropriations, also on the basis of the size of the remaining assets and liabilities established in the accounts for the financial year which expired at 31 December. The draft law, already approved by the Chamber of Deputies without amendment, and examined by the 5th Commission in the referee and by the Committees responsible for the matter in the consultative forum for its opinions, provides for the updating of the budget estimates of competence, formulated in accordance with the current legislation, in relation, as regards revenue, to the possible revision of the estimates of revenue and, as regards expenditure, limited to the discretionary component in relation to the needs which have arisen. In summary, the draft law under consideration, with reference to the authorizations for payment in cash terms, shows the updating of the amount of residues established in the accounts for the previous year. The proposed changes in the budget, together with those made until 31 May due to administrative acts, in connection with legislative measures adopted after the adoption of the budget law (including Decree-Law Nos. 18, 23 and 34 of 2020), define the forecast set for 2020. The proposals made with the settlement bill are neutral for the purposes of public administration's net debt, as they are already discounted in the trend frameworks defined in the 2020 Economic and Financial Document. The report annexed to the bill shows that, in terms of competence, the proposed changes lead to a worsening of the net balance to be financed corresponding to the difference between final revenue and final expenditure compared to the initial forecasts of the budget law, which stands at a value of less 302.7 billion euros compared to an initial forecast of less 78.6 billion euros. The worsening of the net balance to be financed, compared to the initial forecasts, is due, for 171.6 billion euros, to changes by administrative act and, for an additional 52.5 billion euros, to the variations proposed by the bill of settling. In detail, I would like to stress that the deterioration caused by changes in administrative acts is due to the effects of the decree-laws adopted to deal with the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, for which Parliament authorised the use of debt through the adoption of specific resolutions relating to the two requests for budgetary deviation submitted by the Government. Overall, these result in an increase in final expenditure of more than € 179.6 billion, partly offset by an increase in final revenue of around € 8.1 billion. The deterioration of the balance is due to a proposal to reduce the final revenue by EUR 50.8 billion in terms of competence, due to almost EUR 39 billion in tax revenue, and is entirely determined by the significant deterioration of the macroeconomic forecast. Added to this is a proposal to increase final expenditure by EUR 1.6 billion. On the residue side, the settlement bill updates the active residues on the basis of the findings as of December 31, 2019, following the management ended in the final year. Overall, the forecast estimates an increase in final residues as at 31 December 2019 of EUR 216,161 billion, compared with EUR 246,389 billion of residues initially only presumed. For tax revenues, the residuals are quantified at 108,477 billion euros, with a decrease of 18,667 billion euros compared to the initial forecasts of 127,144 billion. For extra-tributary revenues, the remaining amounts to EUR 106,974 billion, with a decrease of EUR 11.538 billion compared to the initial forecast of EUR 118,512 billion. Starting with the conclusion, as regards the amount of the residual liabilities, those relating to the total expenses, including those relating to the repayment of loans, of 752 million, are certified at the end of the financial year 2019 for an amount of 114,014 billion euros.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u32	I declare the joint general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u33	Mr President, it seems to me that we have to talk about numbers, there is little to do; but within the numbers, which seem arid, there is everything: there is the lives of citizens. 2019, to report, for me is prehistory compared to what happened in the following months. Unfortunately, this is the case: when we were debating for one or two billions - even if it is billions, so they are always delicate facts - they were roses and flowers; now we will see from the data - as we have seen from what the reporters have described - how many are the billions of the settlement. The balance sheet shall be made up of the balance sheet and the balance sheet. The state's assets are negative for 1,916 billion and have deteriorated by 13 billion, but I am not surprised: it is normal and it is due to public debt. The report says that there has been an increase in tax revenue of 14 billion - we are talking about an assessment, it is not said that they have been collected - and this means scraping the barrel, but it has brought the total of the budget, what interests us, to 605 billion revenue; then the budget equalizes with the addition of the mechanism of public debt - deadlines, new missions or renewals - to 866 billion. Already the 2019 budget, however, says that 66.5 billion are needed to finance, which are the most residual competence mechanism (for a part of 30-40 billion were those of the deficit that had been approved in the budget law, the difference is residual), but already it was 66 billion. The real problem, in the accounts, is the residue. The residual liabilities amount to 114 billion and these are costs, they are debts; but, if we have committed them to make investments, which must be made and implemented, and we pay and we have to pay, a large cash mechanism comes in, with a huge problem. I'm talking about the 2019 data, let alone the 2020 data. They must be reduced, however: passive waste must be spent by all administrations. Active residues, on the other hand, amount to 216 billion and are dangerous amounts, because they are real and real and the system can pay them (i.e. the previous taxes and all the revenue that the State has to acquire and that it has not acquired in the course of the year). That is, companies and families that finance the state through taxes, labor, profit and receipts - I insist on this - are able to reduce the active residues, which are a non-regular figure in the context of the budget amounts and it is not a balance that can be judged economically by a third party or by a technician as an exact amount. Basically, governing as we do today, only deciding to spend and spread everywhere, because we think that there are European funds, brings us rights in the abyss. In my opinion, it cannot be said that Italians are rich, that there are 1,500 billion deposits and 2,500 of financial wealth, in bonds and other forms, because thinking about touching these means creating a terrible psychological shock, stopping all business and determining a capital flight. Not to mention Alitalia, which is too easy, there are other debts under the carpet, which somewhere will be registered, sooner or later. The operation Monte dei Paschi, which expires, will generate a loss of 10 billion; the INPS is below 26 billion; the suppliers not paid by the State and the debts not accounted for in this amount are, according to the different systems of calculation, debts off balance sheet for 30, 50, 70 billion, but sooner or later also these nodes will come to the comb. Moreover, this mechanism of not collecting active residues, of having to spend on passive residues and running the machinery of competence determines too slow a payment: the State pays slowly and slowly pays all institutions. This is the situation in 2019. However, the budgetary adjustment, which is an update of the forecasts on the basis of what has changed on the basis of the figures in the accounts, collecting figures that make my legs tremble: they would not make me sleep at night if I were the Minister for Economic Affairs or even a Undersecretary (I do not want to, Mr Undersecretary). We all understand together - because the debt is not of the Government and of the majority, but of all - what we are deciding: in the budgetary adjustment we say that we must finance - and it is official data - 350 billion cash and 302 billion competence, divided into different items. The adjustment takes note of the decrease in final revenue by 50 billion, of which 39 from tax revenues, and it is the least that can be said (I believe that it will also be something more). The last thing I mention is the difference in the public debt system of issues and renewals in relation to the deadlines, from 313 billion to 563 billion in total, with a difference of 250 billion to be financed. In this battle of figures the primary balance disappears, which, as you know, in recent years was positive for about 30 billion, but which then went into deficit for the payment of interest of 60-65 billion. The difference to be financed with the use of the market - which is a question mark, according to the report - is covered with the amounts we expect from Europe, but from what we will discuss tomorrow we learn that European funding will be in instalments until 2026, when it will start to be repaid; they will be in tranches, assuming that we are able to spend them. I wonder, therefore, when and how long it will come and under what conditions, given what is happening in Europe compared to the epidemic: are these loans or subsidies? I think - and it is written in what we will discuss tomorrow - that they are all loans, because what we call subsidies will be the annual registration fee on the increase by all states, at least those who will agree. In my opinion, since we are forced, if we succeed, to spend - and to spend well, to make investments - then we need to think about the internal market and the ECB's mechanism. As an extrema ratio, we should think that when we have to give back the loan, or loans, to Europe - from 2026 and to 2058, that is to say at the time of our grandchildren - an inflation mechanism that is not physiological, but can be a different, controlled figure, maybe three or four percent. Europe too seems to agree with this possibility and the Germans also seem to have changed their minds. Otherwise, the hypothesis of some authoritative scholars remains valid: the jubilee of debt. Having said that, I wish that everything I said in the final part of my speech does not occur, but there is some other solution. I sincerely do not see it in the documents and I stress that everything we talk about here deals with serious, serious and important issues that affect people, the first and the last. So we too are touched, not just the majority and the government. God help us! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u34	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u35	Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the examination of the 2019 state accounts and the adjustment of the 2020 budget is taking place this year in a particularly complicated scenario for the Italian economy and society. This passage has always been very ritual for its technicality. This year, however, has a very strong political significance, because the impact of the Covid-19 is strongly felt in the data of budgetary adjustment and, consequently, in what will be the budget for 2021. The report is a technical tool to make Parliament aware of the results of financial management. It constitutes a relay document, a basis on which the data of the adjustment are inserted, in particular the updates of the revenue forecasts and the incurred expenses and of the cash authorizations. The arrangement is planned by June, according to Article 33 of the Law of Accounting and Public Finance, and is built not only on the basis of the arrangement, but also on the active and passive residues, as colleagues said before. These are two important documents, because they form the basis on which the budget is then built for the following year (in this case, for 2021: it will be submitted to Parliament in October or November for discussion). They are closely interlinked documents, which always have a political value, this year even more important. As I said before, the adjustment summarizes all the impact on the economy of the crisis caused by the Covid and the budget that we will have to build will be a turning point and a revival, because starting from this huge crisis, it will try to reprogram the future and the restart of Italy. I must say, therefore, that this year more than ever, such numbers take on a political value of hope and of the future for our country. The starting data of the general government accounts of 2019 were rather positive, both from the point of view of nominal GDP and for all balances that we will then list. It is a starting point on which it is worth reflecting. The primary balance, which had been reduced to 0.2%, had been raised to 1.7%; interest expenditure, which we had managed to absorb by 0.3%, was set at 3.4 percent of GDP, but the current balance was also positive; the deficit was rising from 2.2 to 1.6%; the debt-to-GDP ratio was constant at 134 percent, so very high, but much better than what we will see in Nadef by 158 percent. All these data were truly a solid basis on which to imagine a restart for 2020 and still today, despite the shock of the crisis Covid, they are a very important point to say that public finance data in Italy is stable. Nevertheless, there were some problems that were already seen in the data prior to the statement and were represented by the tax pressure and expenses. During the yellow-green government, despite the flagship flat tax, the tax burden increased to 42.4% and this confirms what we have always argued, namely that that was not a flat tax but nothing more than an extension of the subjective scope of the flat-rate virtuous regime introduced by the Renzi government. Nor was it very virtuous to increase expenditure at that time, which gave account of policies on which we had much to say and with which we did not particularly agree. On this basis, in any case, the 2019 State statement is supported, which showed an improvement of all the balances both with respect to the final forecasts and with respect to the differential results: a net balance to be financed improved by almost 23 billion euros compared to the balance and 59 billion euros compared to the final forecasts; a net credit, therefore an increase of the final revenues, and a fairly significant reduction of the final expenses; an improved public saving and also a lesser need for recourse to the financial market, which stands at about - 217. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Conzatti, you were assigned five minutes and we're over six. CONZACTS (IV-PSI). I'm closing. The settlement thus acknowledges the shock and the measures that have been adopted, in particular the Italian decree cure, the liquidity decree and the relaunch decree. The data of this impact are evident and negative. What I want to say is that everything that has been done so far has been absolutely essential to try to buffer, contain the negative effects and revive. All this must be used to prepare us for a budget law which must really be a breakthrough, as we said yesterday. [[Applause]] I would ask you, Mr President, to give me the written statement that I had prepared for it to be annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u36	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u38	Mr President, this is not just any moment as far as Parliament's life is concerned, but it is a particular moment, because it carries out that specific fulfillment of Parliament's activity, which is the activity of verification, control and then, in cascade, also of direction for the follow-up of the life of the Italian system. The fulfillment of the statement and the settlement has been renewed as a result of the reform of the accounting documents and carried out with the law n. 163 of 2016. The numbers have been listed and highlighted by colleagues who spoke before me and I must say with a technicality that is finally respectful of the truth. We all know, who has more experience than those with less experience, that budgetary documents must respect four fundamental principles: truth, which coincides with truthfulness; the fact of clarity; the fact of continuity of budgetary documents; and finally, the fourth element-principle which is prudence. A discussion of the accounts and the adjustment must be nourished in the light of these four principles. Does the budget documents we are examining prove true? Are they capable of being fed by the continuity of data and information? Is there respect for the principle of clarity? And then there's the date of caution? The Court of Auditors in a reading that I am sure is part of the assets of all the senators has testified, with the paper document that we have in our hands, that these principles have been respected. There is also a note that the Court of Auditors makes with respect to a figure relating for example to the matter of competence of the 6th Commission that I chair, which are the so-called tax credits coinciding with the so-called tax warehouse, of which yesterday we did a true operation with the valiant and appreciated new Director-General of the Revenue Agency. It has emerged that, precisely with the principle of continuity of budgetary documents, those credits are figurative, nominalistic, they are not in truthful competence because if put into operation, through the contractual activity with the Revenue-Risk Agency, we would run the risk of having actual costs, instead of actual revenue. How, then, is the use made of a parliamentary moment on the state budget statement? Even assuming guidelines and objectives in the wake of parliamentary life to provide us with a rule that allows us to rationalise the tax warehouse in its untruthful part, to make a reordering operation, otherwise we carry out a consistency of potential fiscal capacity that does not correspond to the truth. However, I first called for the law to reform the state's accounting system. This reform law, in Article 14, has a fundamental committee which must be more sympathetic to both the Government and the parliamentarians. This article sets out the need/administrative necessity for Istat to set up a committee to provide indicators for fair and sustainable development assessment. Budgetary numbers, that is, when they are declined by spending operations, must give rise to downstream indicators that allow the measurable development of fair and sustainable development, including through an international reading of practices. In this regard, we must do a truthful operation. The document must be approved because it is a document that records in terms of absolute exceptionality a rupture that on the planetary plane is judged as a rupture of civilization. It is clear that this has led to a mismatch between the forecasts and the effectiveness of expenditure; so much so that it has been highlighted by the first colleague of the opposition to the colleague who spoke before me in the majority, as in the end the financial operation turns out to be an imbalance about the coordination between revenue and expenditure for about EUR 300 billion. What, though, is the additional figure that we must place in our reflection? We have to ask ourselves one question: how do we recompose and re-establish the state budget? We have suspended the state budget for reasons of necessity. There is a lack from the point of view of revenue because with parliamentary vote we have determined a measure of flexibility on the duties of revenue. We have determined a deviation, which means indebtedness in relation to the coordination framework for Italian and European public finance, and this too has been the subject of parliamentary vote to ensure that we meet again a real economic circumstance that gives impetus to productivity, to the wheel of the economy that must start again to spin. What should we add, without prejudice to the order of the accounting documents that we have to vote on? We must ensure that public finance expenditure achieves objectives in realistic times. That's the figure. There was a program with an evocative name in the Italian order: Beauty Italy; I don't know which one of you remembers it, certainly the parliamentarians with longer course than I will remember it. This programme concerned the 6,000 Italian bell towers. Do you know where that program is? With all the accounting documents in order it does not yet generate that majestic meeting of workers, yards and cement, which is the transformation of reality, because there is no opinion of a figure of a very demanding Ministry, which I do not want to mention in order to avoid here creating antipathy and sympathy. It is a Ministry that refuses to abide by the rules of the proceedings and that hates the times of the administrative procedure; it has them in hatred, knowing that the law n. 241 of 1990 is exactly thirty years ago that the law of the order has been made. Thirty years later, thirty days are abundant enough to instruct and define a process. And yet it doesn't happen. This must lead us to make a reflection, senior adult colleagues (I consider myself a junior colleague and there is Senator Casini in front of me, who almost debilitates me, judging his experience). In the light of this, I would like to gather the experience of a public accounting giant, Manin Carabba, the authoritative magistrate of the Court of Auditors, who has often fed the accounts of this Parliament. Manin Carabba says: we consider the resource the financial resource, and it is indisputable; there is another indisputable resource, the regulatory resource, for which we must dare more. The measure called "simplifications" must be more demanding with regard to the simplification expected from the country, also because the normative resource does not cost: it is indeterminate. Only the load of fatigue it imposes can produce a misunderstanding. Then there is the organizational resource, the human resource: 500,000 human resources are missing from public administration. We cannot continue to produce programmes, missions and projects thinking that an acta commissioner solves everything; it is not so, it is a deception. There is a need to rebuild skills and to align procedural arrangements. I shall conclude with a note. The microphone light turns on and reminds me that the "clexidra" calls me back. You know that there is a committee at the Ministry for Cultural Heritage and Activities, which deals with the absence of constraints and which on average meets twice a year: to verify if a bond actually exists on a property that is burdened with it, it needs to be pronounced. We need to make sure that the statements of the investigative opinions are treated as nodes of a process to be prioritised on the agenda, otherwise the accounting documents certainly tell a truth, but it is not the factual truth. Among the one hundred and thirty-six measuring objectives and indicators that the Minister of Economy and Finance has assessed, there is an objective that speaks of the real impact of public spending. We risk being a united party with a single majority on that indicator, because we cannot break the reality of the problems of citizenship. We therefore need to simplify and consider the amendment of lazy and sad rules as a high priority in order to ensure that public expenditure is accounted for and judged. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u39	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lannotti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that the law of settling and reporting is not just a boring list of figures, but something alive, because what this pandemic has never done has happened. I repeat, it never happened, and it shows us the roller coasters that had to face Italy, as it had never done before in the course of its history. The Covid-19 threw us into the abyss, but it also brought out our incredible ability to recover and also showed us the qualities of this Government. In short, this is what happened to our accounts: a story divided into two, between what happened before the coronavirus and what happened after. Let's start from 2019. With regard to investment expenditure, the result was certainly positive, also due to the effects of the unblocking interventions adopted in the first months of the government action. Investment expenditure has grown again after four years, marking an increase of almost 3 billion euros compared to 2018. The primary balance, one of our most proud fundamentals in Europe, was positive and equal to 1.7% of GDP (EUR 31 billion), with a growth of 0.2% compared to 2018. Interest expenditure amounted to 3.4% of GDP (EUR 60.3 billion). The current balance was positive and amounted to EUR 27.8 billion. If we look at the main aggregated data of the profit and loss account of the public administration, the improvement of the balance mainly contributes to an increase in revenues of about 23 billion euros. The total revenues in 2019 of general government increased by 2.8%; i.e. for current revenues. In particular, direct taxes have increased due to the growth of Irpef, Ires and substitute taxes, while indirect taxes have increased mainly as a result of the increase in VAT revenue and lottery and lottery tax. In addition, there is a +3.2% for actual social contributions compared to 2018. The government debt ratio is unchanged at 134% at the end of 2019. The management of competence achieved in 2019 an improvement in all balances compared to the final forecasts, as well as compared to the differential results recorded in 2018. The net balance to be financed had a positive value of around €2.3 billion in 2019, with an improvement of almost €22.3 billion compared to 2018. Public savings improved and the use of the financial market was also good. Then came the pandemic and, together with it, the global catastrophe of the economy. The shock that has hit us has completely reversed the scenario that begins to emerge from the beginning of 2020. The figures for the first months of the year showed, in fact, trends fully in line with the best forecasts made by the government and international observers. The deficit was below expectations, the growth profile on the basis of indicators suggested that the economy had steadily started on the path of a moderate recovery. The measures to control the epidemic that we found ourselves having to adopt first among the European nations have, unfortunately, had an unprecedented impact on the economy: a powerful earthquake, amplified by the fact that, at the same time, the economies of all the countries of the world, not only of our European partners, have been affected. And that's where the government emerged. This majority has responded with timely and unprecedented interventions in the history of the economic and financial maneuvers approved by Parliament. The proposed changes in the budget with the bill of settlement, in addition to those made by administrative acts in the period from 1 January to 31 May, take into account the financial effects of the legislative measures adopted after the adoption of the budget law, but in particular the extraordinary measures taken to counter the negative effects of the epidemic. Unfortunately, the effects on our public finances, as the report points out to the 2020 settlement bill, are heavy, with a worsening of the net balance to be financed compared to the forecasts. Overall, there is an increase in final expenditure of more than 179 billion euros, partly offset by an increase in revenue of around 8 billion euros, and a reduction in final revenue of 50.8 billion euros. It should be noted that this reduction proposal mainly affects tax revenues for almost EUR 39 billion and is entirely determined by the significant deterioration in macroeconomic forecasts, already illustrated in the 2020 Economic and Financial Document. But a lot of damage has been limited. Italy has probably, for once, acted better than its European partners and we are all aware of that. The Bank of Italy noted that, in the absence of the measures taken, the decline in GDP in 2020 would have been more than two percentage points higher. Instead, the measures taken have reached broad strata of the population. A rather conservative estimate suggests that there are at least 1.5 million jobs saved so far by the measures taken. On 20 July, only for the INPS part, benefits estimated at 16.5 billion euros were paid in favour of an audience of 12.6 million workers (and I feel to be supportive with President Tridico, a humble professor who is doing well). The applications received from the banks to the guarantee fund have become 918,000 to 61,7 billion euros paid out, of which approximately 784,000 up to 30,000 euros for 15,5 billion euros. A simulation published by the ECB in its economic bulletin shows that in Italy, without intervention to support workers, unemployment would have jumped to 25%. Then there is the National Reform Programme, discussed in Parliament, where the policies that the Government intends to adopt in the three-year period 2021-2023 are outlined for the revival of growth, innovation, sustainability, social inclusion and territorial cohesion in the new scenario determined by coronavirus. There are exceptional measures to respond to the pandemic taken at European level. In short, Mr President, the pandemic has thrown us down the tunnel, but today we see, even if far away, the exit. This pandemic is comparable to the impact of a war. This is why in seeking the reconstruction of this country from the economic ruins and finance of neoliberalism there is a need for the help of all, majority and opposition. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u41	The joint general debate is closed. The reporters and the representative of the Government do not intend to intervene in the reply. I inform you that, since the final vote on the two measures will take place by electronic ballot, pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, once the examination of the articles of the accounts has been completed, we will proceed directly to the discussion of the articles of the settlement. The joint explanations of vote will then be followed and the two votes will be taken using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u42	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u44	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Amendment No 1.Tab.2.1 proposes to move resources from the immigration fund, by increasing those allocated to local authorities for their own actions. The aim is to provide support to neighbouring entities, which have been severely weakened by the Covid crisis that has affected economic activities. Amendment 1.Tab.2.2 proposes to shift resources from the immigration fund to the protection of essential levels of health care. With amendment 1.Tab.2.3 the intention is to move the resources allocated for the holiday bonus, addressing them to the fund intended for municipalities for the refreshment of the TOSAP and COSAP exemption. Even with Amendment 1.Tab.2.4, we are counting on the holiday bonus, considering it more appropriate to allocate the same resources to the municipalities, for the IMU exemption for the tourism sector, certainly more useful to the sector than the holiday bonus. Amendment 1.Tab.2.5 devotes resources from the immigrant fund to the financing of recreational activities and sports, which determine their social function on young people.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u45	I call on the rapporteurs and the representative of the Government to comment on these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u46	Mr President, I am against all these amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u47	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u48	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.1, tabled by Senator Tosato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.2, tabled by Senator Rivolta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Colleagues, I remind you that the mask is not a container of the parrot or the chin but should be placed on the nose and mouth. [[Applause]] I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.3, tabled by Senator Zuliani and other senators, identical to amendment 1.Tab.2.4, tabled by Senator Tosato and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.5, tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.6, tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.7, tabled by Senator Zuliani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.2.8, tabled by Senator Faggi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.1, tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.2. tabled by Senator Rivolta and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.3, tabled by Senator Tosato and other senators, identical to amendment 1.Tab.8.4, tabled by Senator Faggi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.Tab.8.5, tabled by Senator Zuliani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). This concluded the examination of the amendments tabled to the single article of the draft settlement law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u51	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, the measures we are debating, although very technical, are necessary for the lives of citizens and the functionality of the state machinery. Despite their rituality and technicalism, the examination and approval of both the general accounts of the State administration for the financial year 2019 and the provisions for the adjustment of the State budget for the financial year 2020 are fundamental to Parliament, which will soon be able to allocate resources, in view of next year, with the budget law 2021. This year the serious crisis linked to the pandemic by Covid-19 has caused profound changes in the management of the state's resources. However, this passage allows us to build a bridge between the previous budgetary session, closing it, and the new budgetary session, reprogramming our forecasts. I believe that when Parliament is called upon to adopt measures that manage public resources, we need the utmost seriousness and transparency. Doing so at such a difficult time, moreover, calls us to an even higher and stronger commitment. As I said, the development of public finances has undoubtedly suffered the consequences of the pandemic. The data of the 2019 summary allowed us, in fact, to be able to count on a situation of stability that was certainly more in line with the best forecasts formulated by the government in autumn. The lower deficit of expectations and several economic indicators with a better than expected situation also led to the possibility of a moderate recovery. Then, however, as we all know, the measures to contain the epidemic completely upset that picture, but, despite everything, the numbers show that the Italian economy is fully sustainable. And if this has happened, it has also been thanks to a series of interventions that, over the last few years, have allowed the state to keep under control public spending, efficient and recovering important resources for the community, as well as being able to count on the support of a Europe that has not abandoned Italy and has guaranteed the sustainability of its public debt. We all know that the situation that is shown to us today by the adjustment is linked to the conditions given until 31 May 2020; until that date it was also possible to take into account the important measures that the Government and Parliament adopted, with the exception of the last approved decree, the August decree. The changes in the budget that we approve today in the draft law of settling also incorporate the financial effects of all those extraordinary measures adopted to counter the negative effects of the epidemic on our economy (I think of the so-called decrees care Italy, liquidity and relaunch). These actions undoubtedly lead to a worsening of the net balance to be financed compared to the initial forecasts of the budget law, which stands at around EUR 300 billion, compared to the EUR 78 billion initially foreseen. We are talking about a deterioration of more than 224 billion euros of the net balance to be financed compared to the forecasts, which is also affected by an increase in expenditure, amounting to 179 billion euros, linked precisely to the measures put in place so far. Among these are certainly transfers to public bodies, including 35.4 billion to the major pension funds, which have served to cover the burdens linked to the Cassa Integrazione per i lavoratori; not to mention the important financing that the State has guaranteed to the Regions and the Municipalities. For the latter I believe that our commitment must continue even more strongly; mayors and local administrators will face the consequences of an economic and social crisis that obliges us to give them more resources and tools to intervene because, as we know, mayors and municipalities are the front office of the State compared to all citizens. As I said, adopting these measures, Parliament will be able to enter a budgetary session which I believe will be crucial for the future of this country. We will have an arduous task, but above all a huge responsibility for future generations. It is to those generations that we must look at, at their needs and needs. 11.25 a.m. (Beginnings followed). With the current majority of government we have freed the field from the possibility of projecting Italy outside Europe. Today, from that very Europe we have the proof that Italy is and will continue to be a reference point. With the billions of the recovery fund and all the instruments that Europe has put at our disposal, we will have to do our part: secure not only the state accounts but the development, progress and future of our country. For all the reasons I have just mentioned, Mr President, I am also voting in favour of this measure on behalf of my Italian Group, Mr Viva-PSI. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u54	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, the 2019 budget and the 2020 budget are certainly among the most important issues that concern an administration, which can be the central one, as in today's case, rather than the decentralised ones, such as the administrations of the Regions, Provinces and Municipalities. These are clearly matters that are less exciting than political issues, although they are very important issues. We are talking about technical documents, numbers, as I said before, behind which the government is hiding to say that everything is okay except that, if something goes wrong, it is certainly the fault of the pandemic that has upset our country. Since my speech is an explanation of vote, I would like to leave aside the coldness of the numbers because we can certainly say that, between the two documents, there is a large watershed that concerns the pandemic that we are living. Therefore, if the numbers of the 2019 accounts have certainly positive parameters compared to those of 2018, the 2020 adjustment data have a lot of negativity, and the worsening is undoubtedly due to the dramatic moment that the whole world - including Italy - is experiencing, in addition to the policies, in our opinion wrong, promoted by the majority and the current Government. These data should suggest that it is necessary to leave aside the slogans to which the Government has increasingly accustomed, and optimistic forecasts to fall rather into the real reality of our country. I believe that the main thing we should look at is GDP, our Gross Domestic Product. Istat had to revise downwards its GDP estimates for the second quarter of 2020, which dropped by as much as 13% compared to the previous quarter and by 18% compared to the second quarter of 2019. Confindustria estimates that 2020 will close with a decline of 9.6 percent. This is thanks to the recovery that someone defines optimistically of rebound of the third and fourth quarter of the current year. A recovery that will certainly not be homogeneous, destined to leave several sectors behind: one for all, tourism which, as we all know, represents 13% of our gross domestic product. However, this will be a path of sight navigation, due also clearly to the particular situation that we are living and therefore to the contagions that are generating very strong doubts in our families and our enterprises, that fear a new lockdown. I believe that in this scenario it is appropriate to reflect on where we want to direct this country. Italy is experiencing a crisis that is the most important of the post-war period and Brothers of Italy has long been asking the Government for a change of pace that unfortunately we do not yet see. We cannot continue to squander public funds, resources, moreover, as I said yesterday, in deficit, nor can we continue to wait without doing anything about the European funds, those famous 209 billion that we expect by spring, perhaps even next summer. These are delays that could be useful to some parties in the majority, one for all the Democratic Party, who is looking forward to triggering the 37 billions of the ESM, so in addition to the skyrocketing public debt we will also make 37 billions of debt with Europe, a big deal for our country. Brothers of Italy therefore asks you to open your eyes and to report the results of this Government, rather than just do the accounts relating to the public accounts. With a little clarity, you would realize that you continue to assemble and dismantle measures promoted by the Government Count 1 and to deny those promoted by the Government Count 2, I am referring in particular to the quota 100 and the policies related to the security decrees that, as we all know, have been dismantled in recent days. This clearly means that there are no ideas on how to make pension reform, nor how to protect our borders and Italians from this uncontrolled immigration. We are sailing on sight, as I said before, ready to deny measures that the relative majority party in this Parliament had voted with conviction and we have not yet understood if you were wrong or if you were fully aware of what you were approving. One thing is no longer discussed, because it is now taken for granted, that measure on which you do not want and did not want to go back, which is the symbol of the waste par excellence, that is, the income of citizenship, very dear to the Five Stars. Over the last few months we've been wandering around saying that this measure is badly thought out and it's gone a lot worse. We also found ourselves former ministers who were proud to say that a 20 percent of perceptors have found work, careless instead of the remaining 80 percent of perceptors, who have still been walking. You found the money in the various budget laws to finance this measure, but honestly we have never been and we will never be convinced of everything you have carried out. We have repeatedly reported in this House cases of abuse of citizenship income, by people who did not have the right, or even worse than prisoners, or by those who had luxury villas and cars displayed on social media, by those who worked in black or by those who sold out and sometimes even by those who killed. So do the report to yourself, do it looking in the mirror, about what you have done for a crisis Italy, asking for structural reforms, starting from the tax system and the heavy bureaucracy that you have not even managed to resolve through this last decree approved and that is the decree simplifications. I am silent about investments, compared to which we note that the Genoa model has been an exception and that despite the high-sounding proclamations in practice there are not any unlocked yards, nor even great works that start. In this regard I would like to recall the announcements made by Minister De Micheli, we are even waiting for a ministerial decree that leads to the appointment of commissioners who can start works that in this country have been stationary for decades. To the members of this Government and of this majority, therefore, we say to make a political statement. Take an examination of your conscience, then when you have clear the extent of your failure, resign and leave the word to the Italians. The vow of Brothers of Italy will be contrary both to the account and to the settlement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u57	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, our vote on both the general accounts of the State administration and the budgetary adjustment will be favourable. The report is a very underrated act of transparency, also by us; instead, as the Court of Auditors says, giving an absolutely positive assessment, it is an act that makes it clear how and where the resources are spent. In relation to budgetary adjustment, I am more interested in highlighting two aspects. As another colleague said, this year the adjustment is an extraordinary tool because, while in previous years we were faced with minimal adjustments, the Covid brings out some very significant things. We are faced with a radical change, just think of the very heavy reduction in revenue, or the fact that we are moving to the market for more than 300 billion more than expected and additional expenditure (see Table 1 and Table 5). In this regard, I would like to stress that we could have a less ideological and less political debate, making two very discussed examples in the amendments and in the debate of these months. If we take Table 5 we realize that, without yet counting, of course, the so-called August decree that we have just converted (while the House has not yet done so), 16 billion more were allocated to decentralised bodies (local authorities and regions) and 33 billion more as regards the INPS and the Integration Fund. I make these considerations not to say that everything is fine, but that from this point of view the Government's effort is very clear. In the end I will say something about another point, but the problems arise on two elements. The first has already been put in the debate: there is no direct correspondence between the choice, the investment, the expenditure (we are talking about expenditure) of the State and the fall back on the territory. It is useless for us to throw the ball at each other, because it is a structural problem; on simplification we will see the outcome of Decree-Law No 76 of 2020 that we have just approved. The other big problem - I apologise to my fellow Members because I always repeat this - for the recovery fund is to restructure the public service, the public administration; we must immediately assume new powers at the central and decentralised levels. I would like to give you an example: if we have to make the single purchasing power stations and choose the provincial base, we have to assign competences to these bodies otherwise races are not done or take months or years to do them. We have to take some designers, we have to finally make - even these last floods tell us - an extraordinary plan, ten years, for the security of the territory. We need designers, environmental skills. We don't have them. Then we can no longer afford, in a year or two, to take note that there is still this problem. I repeat this again: it is a decision that must be taken immediately, with the budget law. It is necessary to create an important structure within the Presidency of the Council with these powers, capable of articulating itself in the decentralisation network of this country. Yesterday it was said by the Lega's Parent Company that with total lockdown, which did not make any other country in Europe, Italy would pay a higher price from an economic point of view. It is not exactly so and I do not say it out of controversy, but to point out, because it is useful to us to start from data of concrete reality, as rightly so many times the oppositions have reminded us. 11.40 a.m. (Errani followed). If we take Eurostat data, Italy has fallen by 17.3% over the two quarters of lockdown, France by 19%, Spain by 22%. I say this in order to reiterate that it is not true what has been argued, indeed, it will prove more and more, in the coming months, that the very hard action that we have carried out with lockdown, in advance of other countries, will allow - I am convinced - a faster recovery. In conclusion, it remains a great challenge for all of us and I repeat it again. I would like it to be a challenge for the ruling class of this country, not just for politics, beyond the different political positions. I see - alas - a great deal of willingness to ask for assistance and contributions, I use the terms of the opposition even if the Integration Fund is not assistance, and I see a low propensity to develop a strategic project. That is what we will be measured on in the coming years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u60	MANCA (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, the Democratic Party will also vote in favour of the report and the settlement. The accounts and the arrangements do not represent two bureaucratic acts, two technical passages. These are two pillars of the state's budgetary system, as Mr D'Alfonso pointed out when he spoke of the fundamental principles of public accounting. These are two fundamental steps within which, as provided for in Article 81 of the Constitution, Parliament is rightly given the opportunity and opportunity to check whether budgetary policies have resulted in economic and social consequences in our country. So they are not technical, not bureaucratic, but of strong political value. If we add to this the fact that the statement, which allows us to bring economic results into the adjustment, but also the basis of the adjustment, inevitably represent the basis for the forecast of the 2021 budget law, I believe it is right and appropriate, beyond the numbers and data that have been represented here by the colleagues who preceded me, to make some political considerations. The most important contribution that the Government has made at the moment - and this is a clear result for all - was to build together with Europe a new face of Europe. We must admit that so many structural interventions and so many structural limitations that we have inherited from the past have a profound root in a Europe that had austerity at its centre, a Europe that put at the centre of the word "reform" cuts, reductions in expenditure and reduction of services. We must admit this with great frankness among ourselves, because I believe that, instead, through the important action of this Government and the change in European dynamics, the new face of Europe gives us a new responsibility that is also to correct the structural limitations that have taken place in the public administration. Mr Errani mentioned in the various tables a clear fallback, namely the difficulty of the public administration to implement quickly the choices that Parliament, even with the budget law, identifies. If we take the accounts, we see how in many cases active and passive residues present a difficult link between forecasting and implementation. If we add to this also the assessment of the economic repercussions that the delays produce or do not implement in our country, we realize that we have structural elements to solve that only the new face of Europe will allow us to resolve. In fact, we need to inject new resources into the public administration and this could not be done before, when each reform corresponds to a linear cut, a reduction in expenditure or a freeze in recruitment. This is evident in public administration, because without the definition of a new investment season, even generational, because the new generations in public administration bring with them innovation, skills and new technologies, we will not be able to give speed to our actions. Without giving speed to our actions, the new European programming also runs the risk of not having time to implement it and therefore of not producing the positive effects to which we all refer. So I believe that the government has not only shown that it is facing the most significant shock that this pandemic has introduced; if we look at the data of the adjustment we realize that none of us could have predicted economic repercussions on the fiscal balances so violent and so immediate, that in fact they have changed in a few months the very conception of the public financial balances on which we had worked so far. In essence, that pandemic shock, which has become an economic and financial shock all over the world, gives us a new responsibility: only through a new face of Europe will we succeed, with the new European programming, to open a new season. That is why I consider this to be the greatest opportunity for the future. There is the next budget law. The Update Note to the DEF already defines the political framework for this transformation. Of course, more important investments are needed in the public administration, because there is a structural delay to which we must give an immediate response, because without a proper public administration and ready we will struggle to implement, body, speed and engine our projects. We need a season of investment in public administration. I believe that this element, combined with the search for a new project of economic development, inevitably determines, with the new programming, the possibility of overcoming the structural nodes of this country, even in the economic dynamics, so as to make sustainable the net debt that we have built. I say this to my fellow senators: without these measures, as already demonstrated by the data of the very important economic institutes for evaluating our economy and the effects of the pandemic, we would probably have lost 2 points more than GDP. Without our measures we would have created one and a half million more unemployed; without our measures we probably would not have in our country system a capacity to give resilience and to maintain the productive, industrial and economic system. Without our measures we would probably have left in the past a contrast between labour and capital that is much less evident in our country today. There is an extra awareness that work and capital are being held, that investment in new economic dynamics will be crucial to building competitiveness on the segments of innovation, research, digitisation, the environment and the green economy. It's an important piece of road. I also believe that the 100 billion net debt, which has changed the balances of public finance in this country, which will determine in 2020 a relapse that no one could foresee before the pandemic shock, we must increasingly support them with a new and extraordinary opportunity that is to design a new social and economic dynamic in the country, aimed at building competitiveness and growth on a new concept of competitiveness and growth. This also applies to public administration in particular. We must then be good at identifying suitable procurement stations, because it is not enough to say that we are hiring, but we must know where, how, with what purpose and with what objective. It is obviously not the season to produce non-productive expenditure, but the season of a productive expenditure to produce concrete economic spillovers that generate jobs and growth. We must therefore link it to concrete objectives in order to build a new face of public administration, through economic repercussions that we must certify and determine in relation to the actions taken. I believe that these structural problems we are facing today are the first response to Europe's new face. I believe that space for those who had Europe as their opponent, for those who imagined to do it alone has zeroed, there is no playground for an internal competition, for an isolation of our country in a condition of loneliness. Europe's new face is the biggest opportunity we have to build new economic growth. Of course, to the word reforms today we must give the meaning of an investment for the future of generations, especially for the younger ones, who need a functioning state, a public administration that has within its own generations adequate to be able to produce innovation, speed and development. These elements, which lead me to declare the Democratic Party's vote in favour, are the most appropriate political reading to say that the Government has done valuable work in this pandemic phase in the interest of the country, has anticipated difficult measures, has assumed a great responsibility, but has also helped to give Europe a new face and a new opportunity for young people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u63	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the general statement of the state is the right act and should be the most important one because it tells us what the reality of the previous year has been and allows us a political judgment on what had been the promise of the previous year. The promise is called budget estimates, the statement is the maintenance or not of the promise, from the accounting aspect that manifests itself with the part of the residues. Let me take a look at it; the statement is also a step forward towards achieving the objective that was given by Law No 196 of 2009, that is to achieve the right balance between what were the forecasts of competence. I say, even for colleagues who do not deal with the matter, that the forecasts of competence allowed to write entries freely, while the aforementioned law began to insert constraints? establishing that competence must, however, be related to cash availabilities. This is a step towards a modernization of our accounting system that finds its manifestation also through the indication that it comes to us from law n. 196 of 2009, indicating the destinations, the responsibilities and therefore the nature of the expenses, as well as the revenues. So a side-by-side of the two accounting models. What emerges from this summary? A basic fact emerges: in our country in 2019 we had 48.7 percent of the gross domestic product represented by the State. So almost 50% of our economy is the enlarged state budget: this is a very significant figure. On the other hand, there is a percentage that makes us smile: 134.8 percent of the debt-to-GDP ratio. We were discussing points a year ago, or even just six months ago; today we are talking about two more points, two fewer points than 160 percent. So an epochal change, with the consequences, as has also been said in the previous speeches, that this has on the adjustment and will have on the future budgets. What's still emerging? For example, there is a figure for political judgement: more revenue and less expenditure, which should be a very positive figure from the reading of a budget. But let us also give the political reading: what has been the greater revenue? They are probably exceptional: I'm talking about forgiveness-breaking, of course. But the lower expenses, which are important (almost 35 billion) compared to the balances we had, unfortunately manifest the great problem of our country: the inability to spend and politically the inability of the Government to spend. The Government has promised for 2019 an action that - alas - has not maintained. That is one of the reasons why we voted against this figure. The other element that we can identify, and that should rightly lead us to make a complete analysis of the system, is the fact that the summary also allows us to make a comparison between missions and expenses; and it also allows us, with respect to the bureaucratic structures that often govern more than political power, to remove ourselves from the sentence: "We have always done so." Let's think about health, which is one of the most important items: 2019 closes with 122.8 billion. As for the other great voices, I quote the provision: 84 billion. It is a subject that needs to be addressed: you will deal with it as a majority and we as an opposition; you may have one position and we may have another, but the question of balance must be put, and this must be done in a contributory system, thus recovering all those sectors of new activity and of modern type of work that do not fall under what are the ordinary schemes. This applies to all other missions, e.g. education: school education costs almost 50 billion (49.3 billion). Has anyone raised the question of how to hold it economically against the students? It is from this point of view that we must start. On the other hand, how can we balance this issue? There is the question of public school with private management, such as peers; there are many, many issues. It is therefore not only a question of numbers and competence, but also of the ability of a government to intervene on the paths. Alas, the result for us is not satisfactory, because there is a clear finding of the lack of connection between the political will and the effects of political decisions. My speech today is in continuity, if we want, also with regard to the considerations made yesterday on Decree-Law No 104 of 2020. The static situation, on the one hand, and confusion, on the other hand, we check the past and - alas - the present and the measures under consideration. [[Applause]] Probably none of us have the solution, but we have proposals. We ask the majority to listen also to our positions, our proposals, when we say that some things do not work, when we say that citizenship income may be worth assistance but it is not worth as an active labour policy. [[Applause]] , when we say that public works (and this, look, in view of the recovery fund has an important meaning and has also been said by representatives of the majority) it is not enough to predict them on paper. At school I taught my boys the PERT diagram, which gives the sequence of actions, controls and monitoring, finally indicating the date on which you can reach the goal. We must, of course, move forward in future policy from now on to ensure that, for example, construction companies are not just lawyers' firms, just to understand each other. This is the objective: that they should not just be structured in this way, because they must have workers and not lawyers. That's what we're aiming at. [[Applause]] It will be a trivial objective, but we place it, precisely by reading this data, the data of the statement and of the adjustment. I still have a record of the residue on the account. In fact, the adjustment in theory should serve to close the accounts of the year before and to bring the surplus or deficit to the next budget by establishing the residues. The difference lies in reading numbers. Active residues go from 204 billion to 216 billion: a numerical improvement. Is it a real numerical improvement or is it the inability to collect? The amount of residuals goes from 140 billion to 114 billion, which means that the State has paid. But if we go to see, it actually happened that, having not paid for more than two years the current account, these ended up in perent residues. It is a situation that must be addressed at the root and we must do so precisely because, with respect to the adjustment, that in this case begins to incorporate the 100 billion (not even all yet, but still will incorporate them and 75 them all) of the choices already made in 2020 for the great misfortune of the pandemic, we are preparing to make assessments that, on the one hand, must govern - and well - the existing and the ordinary activity and, on the other hand, aim at development choices for the future. On these development choices we clearly do not yet know what the majority's intentions are, but we know that it does not listen to us. [[Applause]] That is why we can only confirm our vote against here. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u66	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking in an explanation of vote, first of all as - and we see this - the debate and general debate on the subject of accounting and settlement did not arouse much interest. We all come from the marathon lasted more than a month for the August decree and the other provisions and still await us the recovery, the law of delegation. There has been a struggle in the works precisely because there were so many measures and the lack of ability to organize and respect the timing does not guarantee a good job. That applies as a principle and I want to stress it. Coming to the measures, regarding the 2019 statement, we simply take note of the results achieved with regard to the public finance balances for the year 2019, which present both a reduction of 1.6% of GDP, net debt, but also a further increase in total expenditure. They did not have any impact on the debt ratio, which remains unchanged at 134.8 percent. The overall tax burden is 42.4, but - as Mr Pichetto rightly pointed out - it also includes the discourse on scrapping. It has been inflated, therefore, by a measure that has been successful and, therefore, there has been an increase in that direction. Tax pressure remains at the core of the League's proposals, also in view of the fact that tax reform is one of the main policies supporting the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, currently under consideration by Parliament. We believe that it should be the subject of in-depth and shared analysis among the political forces throughout the Parliament, raising the alarm of all the categories that estimate - for example - a total tax and contribution rate of 64.5% on small companies and professionals. This is an unsustainable level. There is no point in saying how unsustainable this situation, especially at this particular historical moment, is and puts at risk the entire national economic system, which is based precisely on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. With reference to the 2020 budgetary adjustment, it is clear that we, opposition forces, have always shown ourselves responsible in dealing with the health emergency and the consequent economic crisis, offering a different perspective from those of the government forces, in an attempt to enrich the debate on the measures to be adopted, always making concrete and feasible proposals, gathering the demands of the economic and social fabric of the country, without the need for media footbridges. We have also tried to facilitate as much as possible - you must recognize this absolutely - the speed of parliamentary work for the procedures for the conversion of the emerging decrees without mere obstructions and with the sole aim of improving its contents, while assisting - I still remembered yesterday during the explanations of vote on the August decree - monstrous delays linked to internal tensions by an increasingly quarrelsome majority and, above all, deaf to the opposition's proposals. ( [[Applause).]] Above all, let us remember that we have contributed, proving decisive, on some occasions, by authorising - for example - the allocation of the resources that have become necessary to deal with the current crisis, by voting for three budgetary deviations that have produced an additional 100 billion deficits for 2020 alone and more than 500 billion from 2020 to 2032, bringing the ratio of public debt to GDP to close to 160 percent, a ceiling that we will probably break with the next maneuver. We did this out of a sense of responsibility and because we considered it essential to use all possible instruments to cope with the most serious economic crisis in the history of the Italian Republic. We have considered it right that the State should take responsibility for the difficulties faced by families, workers, entrepreneurs and local authorities, which every day must ensure, however, the essential services for its citizens. We certainly did not do this to see the cities invaded by daring scooters - emblem of a majority totally disconnected from the real needs of the citizens - to allow transactive mediation between the state and specific regions or to encourage the adoption of micro interventions that have essentially dissipated the economic effort that we have asked the next generations. ( [[Applause).]] Before that, Mr Missing spoke of the distinction between good debt and bad debt of the productivity of public administration - which I think is one of the biggest challenges. I think that everyone who has a guaranteed salary - I'm talking about public administration, but also about us - should take on the phrase that John Fitzgerald Kennedy said: don't ask what your country can do for you, ask yourself what you can do for your country. [[Applause]] Here everyone should think about being more serious, doing more. Let me give you an example: in many offices of the public administration there is smart working and there is a resistance to returning to the offices, even in the presence of all the devices and the guarantees of safety. Now, I have collected more than once testimonials from citizens who have told me that they need to talk to solve a problem, but not to be able to contact people on the phone. The only time a citizen was able to talk to an employee was told to call at another time because he was busy shopping. Are we crazy? Those people have to work for the citizens. [[Applause]] So, I don't see why those who work in municipalities and many professionals have to be at the forefront - and they have been in the worst of times - while others now say to do smart working because it's more modern and it's more convenient. No, gentlemen, we are all at the service of the citizens. [[Applause]] But above all we have to decide: simplify. It is not possible to have such important residues and not be able to spend; it means that we are not efficient. Productivity and productivity must be increased with numbers; productivity premiums must be given not because they must be given, but in the face of real efficiency work. That is the difference, otherwise too many people think they are not involved in the debate and recovery. Resilience means being flexible and adapting, but also understanding one's duty; there must be a civic sense that unfortunately in most cases does not exist. On the contrary - excuse me - small, medium and micro-enterprises and artisans, however, risk on their own because they risk their capital. I know artisans who are on the verge of failure because they do not fire their workers - it has also happened in the past - because they are the great resource of the small artisan enterprise, but now also part of a family, and this is the human side that stings them anyway to resist. Why is there no such attitude in public administration? It's not just about the workers. I'm a part of the state. Perhaps this is a concept that many really do not know. Let me give you one last example. I understand that there may even be twice as many employees in certain parts of Italy - I am talking about local authorities, for example - as well as the usual speech on forestry. There you are, there is a support, there is a welfare aspect, but the work should be perfect; the accounts should be perfect; the services to the citizens should be perfect; the woods should be clean; the hydrogeological order should also be the one supercontrolled. On the other hand, there is only one thing to take advantage of, an attitude of menephregism that could not be accepted before, and even more so, it is unacceptable at this time of crisis where everyone is asked for greater responsibility. For these reasons, we are convinced that we are voting against it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u69	PRESUTTO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measures we are voting on today, the management report for 2019 and the adjustment for 2020, are the most important legislative step in order to verify that the State, from a management point of view, has actually collected the revenue expected and executed the expenditure authorised within the time limits set at the forecast stage by the budget law. It's an important passageway. In financial terms, approving the result of the annual management of the budget, the flow of the management of the state accounts is fixed in order to allow the transition from the previous budget law to the next one; a change to say the least decisive - colleagues - given the challenges imposed by the pandemic and the importance that the forthcoming budget law for 2021 will take on, especially in conjunction with the recovery fund. In the composition of the upcoming maneuver, in fact, in order to continue to guarantee protection to our economic and productive fabric and to give a policy change of investments in the country, the assumption of spending commitments that will be financed from the resources of the recovery fund in 2021 is likely. The management report needs an in-depth analysis and particular attention, as it expresses, through the power of numbers, the real capacity of the State to maintain a healthy and profitable interaction with citizens, understood both as taxpayers and, above all, as those who will benefit from public services. Unfortunately, politics on this subject has long been somewhat distracted. Sometimes it seems easier to program than to get into the detail of what you can actually realize year after year. The question never arises as to whether the expected revenue has been collected or whether the authorised expenditure has been carried out. Not to mention the valuations concerning the balance sheet of the balance sheet, where, from the value of the loans and that of the debts, one can understand the general financial health condition of the State. It therefore seems crystal clear, ladies and gentlemen, how important this is with a view to a timely and profitable expenditure of the resources of the recovery fund. I never tire of pointing out that the recovery fund is a huge success achieved by the Italian Government in Europe, with the constant support and stimulus of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] These are huge resources which are based on a first concrete and significant example of European solidarity, which is expressed in the issuance of a substantial common debt. But precisely for this reason, the need for a virtuous expenditure of these resources is maximum. In this direction, a technical and seemingly static exercise, such as the examination of the management report and the budgetary adjustment, can help us to interpret and better address the future challenges launched by the recovery fund, now renamed Next generation EU. These considerations stem from my clear desire to bring to the attention of this House the need to attach the same importance to the management report as to the budget law. There is an unhealthy habit of giving much more importance to programming, but not at this analytical moment, which is a time to reflect how the state has worked. This can only happen through a change in the cultural attitude of all the political forces present here, so that it can be easier to pass on information to citizens and make them fully aware of what is reported in the management report. It is precisely the citizens who must understand how we have worked, as a state, as a political side and as a public administration. The numerical values reported in the statement are useful only when they are understood in their real meaning. For example, we read that in 2019 the actual revenue is almost EUR 860 billion. However, we must also take into account the total value of the active residues which, at 31 December last year, amount to 216 billion euros: more euros, less euros. But citizens will wonder what the active residues are. The active residues are expected revenue, established but never collected by the State. It would be right to understand why such sums have not been collected and what can be done to collect them, since they are necessary revenue to cover the expenditure authorised by the State in 2019 and in previous years. To better understand, I want to give another example. We read that in 2019 the total expenditure of the State amounted to about 823 billion euros, but, again, we must take into account the total value of the residual liabilities at 31 December last year, equal to 114 billion euros. Here too, citizens will ask themselves: but what are passive residues? The residual liabilities are expenditure items authorised and committed, but not carried out. It would be right to understand why such sums have not been spent and what they correspond to, since they are expenditure authorised by the State in 2019 and in previous years and the fact that they have not been incurred could have had consequences on the quantity and quality of the services provided to the citizens themselves. It is inferred - this passage is important - that active and passive residues are parameters that help to understand the functioning of the State in its relations with citizens. In fact, the total amount of the active residues measures the criticalities that the State manifests in the cashing of the anticipated revenues, while the total amount of the passive residues measures the criticalities that the State manifests in the ability to bear the current expenses and those in capital account, that is to say the investments of which so much is spoken and will be spoken in the future. Perhaps it is now clearer what I meant when I spoke about the importance of the management report, even more so in view of the forthcoming budget law and the spending commitments that will be made for projects to be supported with the resources of the Next Generation EU. The analysis of competence management is completed with two apparently trivial but important values: the surplus, which amounts to approximately €43 billion, and the financial deficit, which amounts to about €103 billion. Continuing the analysis, we can read the data of the balance sheet, which has a total asset value of approximately 982 billion and a total liability value of approximately 2,900 billion, with a deficit liabilities, last year, of approximately 1,915 billion. Again, it would be necessary to understand the causes that have generated for the State such a high total amount of credits and debts that have accumulated over time. Related functionally to the management statement we have the bill laying down provisions for the adjustment of the budget of the State 2020, which serves to define the actual amount of the assets and liabilities that, at the time of the preparation of the forecast balance sheet, were estimated only to an approximate extent. The proposed changes with the adjustment reveal a worsening of the net balance to be financed, amounting to approximately 302 billion euros, compared to an initial forecast of less 78 billion. The deterioration of more than 224 billion of the net balance to be financed is due, for 171 billion, to changes made for administrative acts due to the effects of the decree-laws converted by Parliament, which authorized the use of debt and adopted to deal with the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19. Entering into detail, the 171 billion - a net balance to be financed, as I said before - comes from an increase in expenditure, amounting to about 180 billion, and an increase in revenue of 8 billion. To the worsening of the net balance to be financed also contribute the variations proposed by this bill of settlement for 52 billion, mainly due to a reduction of the final revenues for more than 51 billion. These changes take into account the new macroeconomic framework set out in the April 2020 Economic and Finance Document, which indicates a worsening of the state's economic conditions as a result of the government's containment measures to address the current health emergency. The numbers that I have brought to your attention so far have a strong informative value, as they highlight an economic, financial and patrimonial picture with critical issues that come from afar, but aggravated by the health emergency due to the Covid-19. These values have been transposed by the Government, which is already working to implement the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, using the resources that will be made available by the European Union with the recovery fund. One of the key elements of the government's action will specifically address the relationship between the state and citizens, which will have to improve through the efficiency of the public administration, with the adoption of a modern management model. The aspect of employee training is fundamental, as is the recruitment of technical and not just legal figures. In this way, it will be possible to have a more performing and efficient central and local public organisation able to meet the needs and expectations of citizens, meeting their needs and their evolution, while containing public expenditure, making it functional to the adopted model, which can be measured over time by the overall reduction of the residual active and passive values reported in future management reports. The concept of functional expenditure - I stress this item - will have to replace the concept of linear cuts which have proved ineffective and dangerous to the social state. Efforts are also being made to enhance the digitisation of public administration, both in internal processes and in relations with citizens, and to promote interaction between public databases. This will lead to greater efficiency, and thus lower public spending, and greater speed in the delivery of services by the State. Another intervention to which the Government is working is the tax reform, necessary to overcome the conflictual relationship with the State, due to a dated tax system, inadequate to respond to the needs of effective collection of taxes that will also have to take into account the changes in the national and global economic and financial system of the last decades; a real gradual and continuous rapacification that will pass through legislative measures aimed at reviewing the logic of tax in an increasingly less vexatory perspective and that will also have the effect of reducing the phenomenon of tax evasion. The Government and Parliament are working to strengthen and relaunch the country quickly, implementing the measures and reforms that have long been expected and which have been incomprehensible in recent decades. We have the unique opportunity to make Italy a modern and evolved country, able to guarantee the improvement of the quality of life of citizens throughout the territory, to reduce the economic, social and infrastructural gap between North and South, to hold back our young people and to attract foreign investments. We can't afford to make mistakes and waste any more time. We owe it now to ourselves and future generations. I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Stars to both measures under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u70	We shall therefore proceed to the final votes on draft law Nos. 1912 and 1913. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 1912, as a whole, with annexes 1 and 2. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill n. 1913, composed of only Article 1, with its annexes, lists and tables. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (see Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u73	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, in the last few minutes I believe that the proposal to suspend work is emerging and to resume work at a reasonable time in relation to the time of the Conference of Leaders. I would say, then, to resume around 4.30 p.m. I just wanted to inform you, President, of this. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So you intend to suspend the work and resume it at the end of the Conference of Leaders? Mr Ferrari (PD). That's right.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u76	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, we are only now learning about this agreement, of which no one has made us part. As far as we are concerned, we do not agree and we are about to continue with the work without suspension. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u77	Colleagues, there is no unanimity, I think it is excessive to propose a vote. At this point I propose a middle solution: let us continue our work until 1 p.m., after which we suspend them until the end of the Conference of Leaders. Senator Ciriani, you should address your request to those who are sitting under you. Since my proposal is not accepted, I shall put to the vote the proposal made by Senator Ferrari to suspend the sitting until the end of the Conference of Leaders. It's approved. I therefore suspend the sitting, which will resume at the end of the Conference of Leaders. (The sitting was suspended at 12.31 a.m. and resumed at 5.30 p.m.) The session is resumed. The Conference of Leaders approved by a majority changes to the current timetable and the new timetable until 15 October. At today's session the general discussion of the 2019 European delegation law and related reports on Italy's participation in the European Union will begin. Tomorrow will be devoted to the work of the Commissions, with particular regard to the EU's Budget and Policy Commissions, to examine the guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. The discussion of the report on this document, for which seven hours have been allocated, including explanations of vote, will take place on Tuesday 13 from 9.30 a.m. The communications of the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 15 and 16 October 2020, already scheduled for 3.30 p.m. on Tuesday, will take place from 5 p.m. For the President-in-Office's reply, approximately 7 p.m. and for explanations of vote, live television broadcasting is planned. The timetable for next week's work also includes the follow-up to the discussion of the 2019 European delegation law and related reports, as well as the review of the Update Note to the 2020 Economic and Financial Document and the annex report to the Parliament on the deviation from the medium-term objective. For the approval of the latter document the absolute majority of the members of the Senate is required. Thursday 15, at 15, the question time will be held.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u78	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - changes to the current calendar and the new calendar of the Assembly until 15 October: [[Wednesday 7 October h. 9.30 am - General Discussion of the Law Drawing No. 1721 - European Delegation Law 2019 and related Doc. LXXXVI, No 3, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 3, reporting on Italy's participation in the European Union]] [[Tuesday 13 October h. 9.30 a.m. - Report of the Commissions reunited 5th and 14th on the Guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan - Communications of the President of the Council of Ministers in view of the European Council of 15 and 16 October 2020 (Tuesday 13:17) - Follow-up of the discussion of the bill n. 1721 - European delegation law 2019 (final vote with the presence of the legal number) and related Doc. LXXXVI, No 3, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 3, with reports on Italy's participation in the European Union - Discussion of the Doc. LVII, n. 3-a - Update note to the 2020 Economy and Finance Document and the Annex - Report to the Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243 (vote by an absolute majority of the members of the Senate) * - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday 15, 15, 15, 15) Wednesday 14 " h. 9,30 Thursday 15 " h. 9,30]] * The motions for resolutions to document LVII, No 3-a (Note to update the 2020 Economy and Finance Document) and to the annexed Report to Parliament drawn up pursuant to Article 6 of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012 should be submitted before the conclusion of the general discussion. Amendments to the resolution accepted by the Government on the Update Note to the Economic and Finance Document should be tabled within half an hour of the opinion being delivered. Time distribution for discussion of draft law No 1721 (Law of European Delegation 2019) and related documents Doc. LXXXVI, No 3, and Doc. LXXXVII, No 3 (Programme and summary reports on Italy's participation in the European Union) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 1 h. Government 30' Votes 30' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 3' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FI-BP 45' PD 35' Mixed 31' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion on the Report of the 5th and 14th Commissions on Guidelines for the definition of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 30' Groups 6 hours and 30 minutes, of which: M5S 1 h. 16' L-SP-PSd'Az 1 h. 13' FI-BP 1 h. PD 43' Mixed 45' FdI 33' IV-PSI 33' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 27' Dissentents 5']] The timing breakdown shall take into account specific requests agreed between the Groups. Time distribution for discussion on Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 15 and 16 October 2020 (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 38' L-SP-PSd'Az 29' FI-BP 27' PD 21' Mixed 19' FdI 16' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for the joint debate on the Doc. LVII, n. 3-a (Note to update the 2020 Economy and Finance Document) and the annexed Report to the Parliament prepared pursuant to Article 6 of the Law of 24 December 2012, n. 243 (7 hours, including explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1 h. 3' L-SP-PSd'Az 49' FI-BP 45' PD 35' Mixed 31' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u81	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the League Group calls for the timetable to be amended first and foremost by reaffirming its request, already made at the Conference of the Leaders, to include the debate on the motion of mistrust against the Minister of Education Azzolina on a regular basis because, in our opinion, after all that has been said and the intensive debate on school, we have repeatedly highlighted the Minister's total absence of planning on this issue, which was of course fundamental. It was already known in March that the problems relating to the resumption of the school year had to be addressed immediately and immediately it was necessary to move in that direction. Unfortunately, today, yes, schools are divided, but in many cases there are no teachers, there are no classrooms with adequate spaces and in many cases there are no famous banks promised (only 12-13 percent have been delivered to date). In many cases the school program has not yet begun, bearing in mind that in March, especially on the subject of teachers, the League had presented a clear program that would allow, if implemented quickly and surely, that the school year could leave with all teachers. [[Applause. Comments]] Unfortunately, Mr President, when they get upset, it's because you put your finger in the plague. As a result, I understand that agitation is a lot. Keep moving forward and do us a favor. Above all you cannot think of filling the spaces of the lack of roles through the competitions, because we know that they have very long times. There was a great opportunity to stabilize the current precarious, given that there are 200,000 precarious teachers in our country. We are the European country with the highest number of precarious people. [[Applause]] That is precisely why Mr Azzolina has the courage to come to this House to take responsibility. [[Applause]] This is what we ask for, so instead of murmuring behind the microphone, they will have the opportunity to intervene to claim that they are not afraid.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u82	I understand the request to change the calendar.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u83	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). The second request that we make was that the Minister and the majority should be prepared to accept our request, but at a time that was too long in our view. Asking Minister Lamorgese to report back to the House in fifteen days' time compared to the very serious events that have taken place in recent days, and I am referring first of all to the umpteenth revolt that broke out in the reception center of Agrigento and not only, where there have been launches of mattresses and various objects were burned - the police are no longer able to contain those people - but above all to what happened to a fifteen-year-old boy who died after having been quarantined for ten days on the ship called "Allegra." [[Applause]] He's been in quarantine for ten days and only in the last few days has a doctor noticed that the immigrant was not well. We say this very clearly, because everything has been said in this House and not only with regard to the League and Matteo Salvini, but when immigrants were on ships, so you sent Matteo Salvini to trial, women, children and sick people were immediately landed and assisted. [[Applause]] This is what the inhumane, the villain, the racist, the one to be tried. This is what we did: assistance to sick people. Instead, with the welcoming and well-thinking of the yellow-red government on the ships you die: that's what happened. Then we are tired of the welcome and the many words that go well in the salons radical chic. The real reality is that when immigration was first managed, as Salvini did, there were fewer deaths and there were really more security and management of immigration and not riots in reception centres. [[Applause]] And, above all - as I have said and reiterated several times in this House, President - we are opposed to the hypocrisy, which we have exposed, of those who always talk about helping others, of solidarity and, then, once immigrants land, leave them in the centres treated as beasts, because they no longer care about their lives and their future prospects. [[Applause. Comments.]] They all run, though... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u84	Senator Licheri...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u85	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Everyone's running for president. Senator Romeo, you've finished your time. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). President, I'm finishing. I also take the time for an explanation of vote, otherwise I will also make another statement which I am entitled to in the Rules of Procedure. I was saying that everyone is going to say that they have changed and changed the security decrees and cancel immigration policies. Well, if these are the results, Mr Lamorgese will immediately report on the scandal and shame that we have witnessed these days. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u88	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I now understand the attitude taken at the Conference of Leaders. In fact, it is understandable that the results of the recent elections have created some difficulty. [[Applause]] which results in a completely out-of-the-box intervention, but which has thus led to confusion within the House. In fact, I am starting from the second request addressed to Mr Lamorgese, who immediately gave his willingness to come and report to the House. We called it today, it has not been warned and the following week will be here to report because we ourselves have at heart the understanding of recent events regarding the situation that has arisen, specifically on that ship, as well as we would like a comprehensive update on the situation relating to the immigration affair and also on the issues concerning relations with Europe, including the results that we are obtaining with this Government on the relocations of all disembarked. I believe that, if we are at all serious, we are of course available and, indeed, I believe that we should thank the Minister for having given immediate readiness to report to this House. In fact, in fact, we all agree on the point, so much so that the information of the Government, in particular of the Minister, on the situation has already been foreseen. As far as Mr Azzolina's case is concerned, I think we should be serious. I have told the League many times, when it was in the government with important responsibilities and I confirm it today, that with institutions you don't joke, you don't make jokes, you don't make jokes, you don't have reckless attitudes. A Minister of the Republic is a Minister of the Republic. The League announced the distrust to Minister Azzolina at least five times in the election campaign, but it was all fake, it was not even presented. [[Applause.]] You must be ashamed of how you relate to the institution. [[Applause. Comments.]] I appreciate Senator Romeo's applause because I know he shares these issues. So before we speak in this House, we have to be local. Confidence is an important thing. I believe that the school is starting in a situation of enormous difficulty, unprecedented since the post-war era. The Minister must be given notice that she was able to start school. There are so many problems, including that of precarious teachers; a long-standing problem that does not seem to me that your Minister has solved in a year. It does not seem to me at all because the precarious who inherited Minister Azzolina left them to you and the Minister was not of the Movimento 5 Stars. It was the Minister of the League, a minister who, as far as I know, in his function within the Ministry today is also creating some problems. [[Applause]] So let's talk about school, let's do it with a great sense of responsibility, thinking about our students, the students, the future of our country, the teachers, both stable and precarious. The question was raised today, which we had called for, because we heard Salvini announce the motion of distrust, a motion that was not there, but it was a fake. Today has arrived and I think it will soon be scheduled. However, as a demonstration of the fact that the motions of distrust are used for provocation, while they are a very serious thing, the League presented another one on Minister Gualtieri who, since now it is no longer fashionable, does not care to calendarize. We take note of this attitude, we judge it for what it is, instrumental, then in this House we will deal with the issues with our constant sobriety. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u91	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, the illegibility of the signature lays down for the presence of senses of inferiority lived in the past and not yet fully resolved. This is a graphological investigation of the signature of Minister Azzolina, who is only the tip of the iceberg of an obscene denigratory campaign that has been implanted: it is an obscene thing. [[Applause]] We have even come to analyze in the newspapers the Minister's signature in the face of the criticisms that are being made. You have fueled this denigratory campaign against not only a woman, but also a minister. [[Applause.]] It is the only action you have been able to do was to write on your masks "Azzolina fluncata". [[Applause]] Otherwise, you have no arguments and no arguments. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u92	I believe that all the speeches have been turned on and taken part. Now let's listen to Senator Perilli's surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u93	Please, Senator, continue. Mr Perilli (M5S). When you quote the data, you have to do it well, because 6 billion cuts have been made by a government in which the League was there and by the center-right, not by us [[Applause]] On the other hand, 6 billion have been invested in the school, which is unprecedented and I'll call back a few numbers. 2.6 million single-seater benches have been purchased: we didn't make up lies, because there is a list and a chronoprogram, the "ballario" I've always talked about; on the contrary, where is who always uses this "ballario"? You left him at home and he's not talking here. There is the supply of 11 million masks per day; there is the supply of sanitizing gels to secure the school. In a responsible country, compared to one of the most sensitive sectors, which really affects everyone, we are working to make children safe within schools, to protect families. [[Applause.]] How many times has it been said: My children. My children? You should be ashamed, therefore, not to participate in this constructive climate and to sow hatred and discredit with respect to a person who is doing his best, attacked by all, by unions, political parties, by people. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u94	Talk to the presidency, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u95	Mr Perilli (M5S). It's a shameful thing. Mr President, apart from the issues, what Mr Azzolina is suffering is a shameful, unprecedented attack. [[Applause]] I challenge to be content and to produce texts about the school administration, which on other occasions has been absolutely disastrous in the past. With regard to the issue of security decrees, they are still in force and have not been suspended. These are the Salvini decrees, which have been approved. What is happening is in constancy and by virtue of the decrees [[Comments]] and it can not bother you that the indications of the President of the Republic are reflected. On this subject [[Comments]] We must reason together, because the dead are dead; investigations must be carried out, responsibilities must be ascertained and all the ministers of the case will come to report: no one must speculate on this. However, as far as legislation is concerned - and this is our task - those rules still apply. If anything is to be changed, it will change. You should also cooperate on this, without using campaigns - as I said - denigratory, seeking easy consensus on these issues. The country wants it, we don't want it, and you know it. Missing the quorum with respect to the extension of the emergency decree is a fact that only you understand. Outside, people want to be quiet, safe and do not want to use old politics to put in trouble a majority that is carrying out the country without your cooperation. [[Applause. Comments]] But with you or without you, we'll move on. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u96	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the House, tabled by Senator Romeo, which I shall summarize. Senator Romeo, you are asking me to include, in addition to what I read of the current timetable, the debate on the motion of no confidence to the Minister of Education Azzolina and the motion of no confidence to the Minister of Interior Lamorgese. Is that correct?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u97	Mr President, the request was to bring Mr Lamorgese's information forward to next week and to include the debate on Mr Azzolina's motion of no confidence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u98	I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly, tabled by Senator Romeo. It's not approved. I'll take the rehearsal. I order the doors closed. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. It's not approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u99	The next item is the joint debate on draft law No 1721 and documents LXXXVI, No 3, and LXXXVII, No 3. The rapporteur on draft law No 1721, Senator Pittella, asked for authorization to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u100	Mr President, Minister, Mr Undersecretaries and colleagues, we are bringing to this House today an important piece of legislation, which is one of the cornerstones of the relationship between the Italian institutions and the European institutions. The law of European delegation, which allows the transposition of 38 directives and the adaptation to 17 EU regulations, has involved robust, meticulous work, attentive to listening to more than 90 interlocutors, despite the particular conditions due to the pandemic. I would like to thank Mr Amendola and Mr Agea, who accompanied us step by step; Mr Licheri, Vice-President Bossi and all the members of the Political Commission of the European Union, by majority and opposition; the rapporteur, Mrs Gaudiano, who has worked on the planning and consuntive relations in a manner consistent with the delegation law. I thank the new President, Stefano, under whose presidency we have gone the last mile. I am also grateful to the Secretary of the Commission and all his staff, who have accompanied us with professionalism and commitment. Thank you all for your choir. I am very proud and happy to be one of the actors in this legislative passage. The draft law under consideration is particularly important for two reasons. First of all, it allows Italy to fulfil its obligations arising from membership of the European Union, responding to the obligation to implement directives and regulations, thus reducing the number of infringement procedures against Italy and avoiding the opening of new litigation. The measure is also important from the point of view of merit, because there are directives that are modified and introduced in their implementation and because these are areas that directly affect the lives of Italian citizens and businesses. The directives to be transposed relate, in fact, to media and audiovisual services; copyright for online publications; the use of renewable energy sources; the use of self-production in electricity; competition from the internal market also between agricultural enterprises; prudential requirements for banks and investment funds; animal welfare; environmental protection; supervision of medical devices; cybersecurity; the European pension product; the insolvency of individuals; working conditions and balance with family life; seafarers; road infrastructure and more. Consequently, the work of the 14th The Commission has carried out - I would like to reiterate this - with the greatest openness to the constructive contribution made by all the senators belonging to all political forces to carry out a choral and shared work that is for the benefit of Italy and the Italian citizens. The Commission has integrated and improved the text of the measure by approving 113 amendments and accepting 54 agendas. About half of the agenda (29) concerns Article 9 on the implementation of the so-called copyright directive, on which it was considered not to adopt amendments to the text. The remaining agendas concern the implementation of the Communications Code, the Renewables Directive, the Disposable Plastics Directive and other specific topics. I would like to avoid an article-by-article examination and I would like to read the various articles, if there are no disagreements, which have been consumed in the attention and debate in the Commission. I think they have been the subject of amendments in the Commission and then in this House. So, I would like to avoid going through article by article the bill and going to the conclusion of my speech. Senator colleagues and fellow senators, I do not want to make a general appeal or a sterile motion of affection, also because with the climate we had a few minutes ago it seems absolutely improbable or pretentious. I want to stress, however, how the work I have done to avoid synthesizing was, on the one hand, incisive thanks to the opening of the Government - the senators and senators were put in a position to be able to amend the law of delegation originally approved by the Government thanks to the attitude of the Executive - and, on the other hand, as choral as possible and took into account, as far as possible, the suggestions that emerged during the hearings. (17.28) (Following Mr Pittella, rapporteur on draft law No 1721). My wish and my invitation are, therefore, to proceed, also in this House, to support in the widest possible way and with the wider contribution of all the groups and individual senators, the approval of the delegation law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u101	She asked to speak to supplement the written report by Senator Gaudiano, rapporteur on documents LXXXVI, No 3, and LXXXVII, No 3. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u102	Mr President, Senators, Government, together with the bill of European delegation, the Rules of Procedure of the Senate provide that the Government's reports on Italy's participation in the European Union are also examined. We therefore have at our examination the final report for 2019 and the programme report for 2020, on which the 14th The Commission has given me the mandate to report to this House in a favourable way, taking into account also the advisory opinions expressed by the other standing committees. As can be seen from my report in the printed version which is being distributed and to which I refer for a more detailed explanation, the consuntiva report is the main instrument for the exercise of Parliament's ex post control function over the conduct of the Government in the decision-making bodies of the European Union during the previous year, while the policy report takes on a more political significance, since it reflects the general view of the Government on the future prospects of the European Union and indicates its political intentions on individual European dossiers. Both reports deal with the whole panorama of European Union policies, in which Italy actively participates and from which they derive legal obligations to be fulfilled and common European guidelines to inform our internal national policies. I shall confine myself here to one aspect which I consider to be of fundamental importance and which will never be sufficiently highlighted, namely the need to focus primarily on the ascending stage of training and negotiation of the European delegation, which precedes the final adoption and entry into force as a result of the binding nature of the legal obligation to implement the legislation (regulations and directives) that is adopted by the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament, but also with the active participation of our representatives in the European institutions. I believe that a greater and more incisive amount of resources, time and energy must be devoted to this phase both by the structures of the Government, which already do a lot, but which must further strengthen this commitment to be equal to the main state actors in the Union, and by the Member of Parliament. With regard to the parliamentary part, I am also referring to our elected colleagues in the European Parliament, with whom we should dialogue regularly, systematically and in depth, creating synergies of cooperation and mutual support; a dialogue in which we could make a contribution from the national and regional bodies, of which we are representatives, and in which we could at the same time receive valuable information from the Italian Members, points of view and opinions able to enrich our ability to examine the European legislative proposals at an ascending stage. It is a role, that of the national parliaments, to which the European Treaties attach an important value, and not only for the effective consultative intervention in the European legislative process, but also for the important value of stimulus and direction to the Government and for the role of involvement and approximation of European policies to citizens and to the national and regional territory; a role all the more important the more evident is the problematicity, especially at regional and local level, in the correct implementation of European legislation. Italy is in fact at the last places in the classification of infringement procedures, not so much for failure or delay to implement the directives, but for subsequent violation of them. Most of them are infringements where responsibility lies at regional or local level. At the last update of 2 July 2020 the total number of open procedures was 91, of which 69 were those resulting from the violation of European law, while only 22 were those for non-implementation. It is clear, therefore, that Italy has a problem of adapting to European legislation, the improvement of which could greatly benefit from greater dedication to the upward stage. Infringement proceedings are a problem which, in addition to the legal aspects, also has important economic implications, considering the sanctions that Italy is already paying and which are likely to increase, with the possible further sentences, that are expected. In fact, three infringement proceedings under Article 260 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are pending on Italy, for failure to implement a previous judgment condemning the Court of Justice, which is precisely those liable to impose financial penalties on our country. When these three come to judgment, they will be added to the six judgments already issued, for which Italy is already paying the related financial penalties, which amount to about 150 million euros per year. These are judgments on training and employment contracts, unfair landfills, waste in Campania, urban waste water, failure to recover State aid for Venice and Chioggia and failure to recover State aid related to hotels in the Region of Sardinia. The three pending procedures, on the other hand, concern the failure to recover State aid and the treatment of urban waste water. The text of the annual report for 2019 presents a comprehensive structure consistent with the legislative forecasts of Law No 234 of 2012. It is divided into four parts. The first part is devoted to developments in the European integration process and institutional issues. The second part of the document, the largest, is devoted to measures taken under horizontal and sectoral policies. Part Three, on territorial cohesion policy, takes into account the results achieved in 2019 and the state of implementation of the seven-year cycle 2014-2020. The fourth part is devoted to the activities of national coordination of European policies, with particular regard to the activities of the Interministerial Committee for the Affairs of the European Union, as well as to the Government's information requirements in Parliament. Finally, the summary report is supplemented by five annexes, of which the fourth contains the list of resolutions adopted by the Senate and the House of Deputies, at an upward stage, on the legislative proposals of the European Union. The 2020 Programme Report was presented to the Chambers on 24 January 2020, in a pre-Covid context and therefore appears to have been overcome by the changed European and national policy framework, in the face of the economic and social crisis resulting from the coronavirus pandemic. This is a policy situation, which is also constantly evolving, based on the evolution of the pandemic and on the ongoing negotiations on the various regulatory and financial instruments put in place by the European institutions in response to the crisis. It is therefore appropriate to take note of the policy framework set out in the report, which took up the main challenges that the new European Commission wanted to take as a priority, namely the objective of regaining global competitiveness, to be achieved through two fundamental guidelines: the industrial transformation of the European green deal and the synergy between European development companies, which can counter the often unfair competition of other major global players. The text of the report is preceded by a summary highlighting the individual positions and actions that the Government intends to take during the year, in relation to each of the policy areas of the European Union. The body of the programmatic relationship is then structured, as usual, into five parts. The first part concerns the development of the European integration process and institutional issues. The second part is devoted to the priorities to be adopted in the framework of the Union's horizontal and sectoral policies. The third part deals with the external dimension of the Union and thus sets out government guidelines on foreign and security policy, enlargement, neighbourhood policy and cooperation with third countries. The fourth part is devoted to the government's communication and training strategies, on the activities of the European Union and on Italian participation in the European Union. Finally, the fifth part is devoted to the coordination role of European policies played by the Interministerial Committee for European Affairs and to the issue of adapting national law to European Union law with the usual window on the prevention and resolution of infringement procedures. The text completes two appendices containing the programme of the trio of Presidencies of the Council of the Romanian, Finnish and Croatian European Union and a prospectus dedicated to the resources of the budget of the European Union for 2020, followed by the list of acronyms. Unlike last year, the report does not include an appendix to the European Commission's work programme for 2020, as this was published five days after the presentation of the report to the Chambers. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u103	I note that the motions for resolutions to the programme and summary reports may be tabled before the conclusion of the general debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u104	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Pittella, Mrs Gaudiano, and the whole Commission for their work. In fact, given the complexity of the debate, the deepening and the hearings, I believe that the political Commission of the European Union, of which I was a member until last July, has done - and I am addressing both the majority and the opposition - extraordinary work on a decisive, complex and very important subject for our country. Therefore, I would like to thank my fellow Members. I would like to focus on the part concerning the famous Article 9, which is not by chance transposed without changes, but perhaps with the support of some agendas. I am referring to the so-called copyright law. I want to place my intervention within the context, as rapid technological developments continue to transform the way in which intellect works are created, produced, distributed and consumed, while new business models and new actors are constantly emerging. In addition, we know that the network and digital are extraordinary tools for the dissemination of content, knowledge, relations and exchanges, with large, widespread and important opportunities, once honestly unimaginable; at the same time, however, they can create discrimination and increase inequalities, especially in situations where there is no connection, nor access and literacy necessary for the use of these tools. Moreover, I believe that, where the European directive was not transposed, there would be a risk of creating a profound injustice: I am referring to the non-recognition of the value of intellectual productions, which are a fundamental point for our economy and our democratic coexistence. In a circle that we need to be able to make virtuous, digital is undoubtedly the greatest resource we have to face the ever more complex and largely unpublished challenges that all of us face. Just look at the last few months and how central digital has been to ensure, at least in part and with all the limitations we have experienced, school continuity, work, consumption, information and the same existential need for our sociality. Of course, we have also noticed that digital space is not accessible to everyone in the same way and that not everyone and not everyone is in a position to benefit from it equally. This is one of the reasons why, in recent months, in the midst of the Covid-19 emergency, we have pushed forcefully to arrive as soon as possible - at the latest this autumn - to transpose the European Copyright Directive, which, in addition to being a choice of civilizations aimed at guaranteeing the quality, fairness and democratic sustainability of digital innovation, is also a concrete response to the enormous difficulties that the coronavirus has created and is creating for the world of culture and information. With this directive, for the first time Europe has recognized the fundamental interweaving between the right of users to access online works, in order to quote, criticize, review, and that of authors and authors to obtain the right and sacrosanct economic recognition from online platforms. [[Applause.]] As you know, the so-called web giants use them and, through advertising, get considerable gains. Work has been done to strike a fair balance between different interests of all those involved, by holding together the right to free access to the Network and new technologies with the protection of intellectual production: a work reflected in the directive approved by the European Parliament in March 2019, confirmed by the Council of the EU that today we too are ready to finally transpose. Colleagues, this choice - I say it with some emphasis because it is precisely so from my point of view and from our point of view, but it has also emerged in the debate in the Commission - is a victory for the values of freedom, democracy and dignity of people and work, which are the foundations of our European and national institutions. A victory for Europe that believes and supports creativity, culture, art and free information, but it is also a victory for citizens and citizens who can enjoy free of charge the content that is published on the Net. The directive, in fact, provides, if such contents involve revenue - it is the platforms, excluding those of new constitution (think of startups, blogs, personal accounts) and online encyclopedias without commercial purposes such as Wikipedia - to have to correspond them to those who own intellectual property: artists, journalists, writers, screenwriters, publishers. In short, the law of a European delegation that we are starting to debate today is therefore truly consistent with the general objective that our legislation has in order to be able to adapt progressively to this new context. I consider this to be an important political point. All this without restricting or hindering technological evolution - also an important point - nor compromising the free movement of ideas, which is a cornerstone not only of the Network, but of our own Constitution; but together, really keeping this interweaving, defending the wealth of knowledge generated by artists, journalists, translators, authors in general. The copyright law, in short, is a virtuous and balanced form of regulation; it does not imply any limitation to the potential offered by the web, rather, increases the plurality of the offer. Protecting those who produce cultural, editorial and artistic content means, in fact, investing in cultural, editorial and artistic production, promoting the plurality of the contents themselves, the economic sustainability of intellectual work and the transparency of competition in the digital field, a political point of modernity. It is therefore an important law, a law of civilization, as I said, that puts an end to a confusion in which to take advantage have so far been only some very large companies of the web, to the detriment of all those publishing, cultural and artistic realities excluded from the enjoyment of the economic return of the product of its human capital, and that from now on they will be recognized a fair compensation, social dignity, work and personal. Here, this serves the cultural quality of our country, of which, among other things, our country is truly envied in Europe and the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u105	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u106	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I too thank you for the work that has been done in the European Union's Political Commission, of which I am not a member, but I have followed the story of copyright, which, in Article 9, is one of the important points of this bill of European delegation. I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Senator Pittella in particular, with whom we have had the opportunity to deepen the work in progress. It is an important issue, which starts from a tough battle because, colleagues, I want the responsibilities of the web giants to remain in the act, who are doing an act of suffocating lobbying all over the world, all over the planet. We have a bite: on the one hand, China with the silk route and with all the dangers even health care, its desire for hegemony and colonization that extends until the attempt of purchase of the Italian ports; on the other, the giants of the web tax-free that, from the West, march chopping everything and everyone without paying taxes. That is the reality. And they plunder creativity, they plunder the intellectual product, they bring the publishing world to its knees, they plunder the production of artists, cinemas, musicians; worlds that, moreover, at this stage are already experiencing a huge difficulty, because all artistic activities, public activities, cinemas, productions that feed them suffer for the condition that we live today. In fact, being prevented from gathering, it also prevents the life that culture provides in its public use, which then means copyright, receipts, money for all areas of creativity. The copyright directive has been very much opposed. At one point a few years ago, when it was being discussed in Brussels, there were no free lawyers because the lobby of the great giants of the network had hired all the lawyers in Brussels, all the consultants to prevent those who defended themselves on the other side (authors, publishers, musicians) from finding, in the clash that saw opposing on the one hand a powerful lobby and on the other the creativity, of the people to whom to rely. There has been an overpower of Amazon, Google, Facebook, all these people who do not pay taxes and it is a shame that in Italy and Europe we continue to apply the web tax. Amazon's gentlemen, compared with a turnover in Italy of 4.5 billion euros, paid last year 11 million euros of taxes, 0.2 percent. I would agree to pay 20% or 30% of taxes, as I pay more, rightly, as a percentage of my income. They say they didn't pay 11 million, but they paid 85, because they calculate some contributions. Even so would always be 2 percent of taxes. I'm not against progress. I have contributed to the regulation of wi-fi, digital technologies in the various roles I have played, but these managers have to pay taxes, which pay copyright. And if they take newspaper articles that the publishers send to journalists sent to Afghanistan, America, Singapore, Hong Kong to tell a story, to testify the facts of history, which cost (the journalist goes, he tells, he risks) it is not possible that that content then you can find it on the Net. It is beautiful, of course, but that content has a cost, given by the wisdom, the wisdom of the producer and the publishing company that sends it. All this is now being looted free of charge and this happens for cinema, for music, for publishing. We must protect copyright, which is this, because without creativity people's lives become more dry. Years ago Celentano, who occasionally rediscovers this problem when he also touches his interests, wrote a nice article on the "Corriere della Sera" and said - the quotation may seem improper, but we speak of authors - that if the bread did not pay there would be no bakeries. If you could go and get free bread on the bread table, who should make this bread? Who should harvest the grain, grind it and work at night? No one would make bread if the bread didn't pay for it. You have to pay him, then if one is poor, he will give the bread to those who are poor. He made this comparison, defining the bread of the soul as art, literature, music, publishing, writing. Protecting the author is therefore a fundamental fact and it is serious that the European Parliament has had a very long time to approve this directive. It's taken years, because those who fight are very powerful. Beware that the fight is not over at all. A long time ago, the European Commission had the courage to fine Google for EUR 14 billion, after which Ireland (because there is the European Union, but the law is not the same everywhere, and here I too am critical of Europe, which I think should be a great common area, indeed it sends us an important directive that we must transpose together with so many other things that I will not talk about and that other colleagues will talk about, about European law) cancelled the fine. I have read that the European Commission has appealed, I do not want to accuse anyone of anything, but those who have to pay EUR 14 billion the way to find satisfactory justice find it, I do not have to add anything else. We must therefore ensure that all this progress that technology offers us today does not kill the rest, does not desert publishing, literature, music, authors, creativity, thought. So it is right that they be taxed, that they pay their dues, that they pay their copyrights if they use the music, the writings or the articles they have to re-propose. Today publishing itself organizes itself and travels on the web; Today when newspapers are told that they sell a few copies, they respond that they have many subscriptions and tot accesses via the web. It's obvious. It's normal. Today, through an object like a smartphone we watch television or a movie, even if it is better to watch it in a cinema and not on a microscreen, because even the enjoyment of the work in its size is advisable. You can do anything, even read a newspaper, but it is right that somehow that that product is paid and that our click is not in the gratuitousness, in the theft, because then this is the end. There are illegal forms of digital content looting, but also legal forms of avoidance. Before I mentioned Amazon Prime; these subjects are also great manufacturers. Of course, if you accumulate fortunes and you don't pay taxes, then you can make investments that stop everything. In Italy we have discussed for years the pluralism of television, even with great fierceness, but we talked about stuff, Network 4 and that other network, which are just grains of dust in the world. Today there are powers that end up controlling knowledge and information, because they decide which films are produced, what markets to attack, what dumping to do; in fact, if you earn billions of euros or dollars and you want to conquer the market of one country, you can also make dumping and work at a loss for one or two years, if you want to conquer the Dutch market, the Algerian market or some other country. So we need tax fairness rules, because then the filmmaker, the art producer and the singer have to pay taxes. So I wonder why these other subjects, who disclose content from others, should not pay for the creativity of that author and what is right about their earnings. I have set an example of Google's 14 billion; I hope that the European Commission will win this dispute, but who knows? It was said if there was a judge in Berlin, they probably found a judge in Dublin who gave them reason, who knows? I therefore believe that this draft law of a European delegation contains a fundamental act in this article. Then we will see what the balance and the rules will be. I believe in the world of cinema, in the authors associated with the Italian Society of Authors and Publishers (SIAE), in the appeals made by Giulio Rapetti Mogol - I don't need to explain who he is - that today he is the president of SIAE, not by his choice but because the authors wanted a representative character, a poet of our time (such we can define him), who represented this battle. It is not, in fact, an interest only of those who have to collect their royalty, as one might say, but of defending creativity, in order to avoid that then there is no baker to make the bread of culture, of journalism, of literature, of cinema that then, reduced to pavement, cannot produce a film because it has to do a work of art, because unfortunately it requires the means. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that this rule is fundamental and that it must lead to the web tax: these robbers of humanity, because they are such, have to pay taxes and copyright. Someone kneeled before them, saying alive the Net, live modernity. But I say down on the iniquity of the looting perpetrated by Amazon, Google and so on, that they also plunder the boys who work with them, but that would be another speech. The draft law in question therefore contains an act of justice because in Europe, so rich in culture but also in technology (because if there had not been Guglielmo Marconi and someone else would not have been even the Internet and everything else), there is some fairness. The rule under discussion contains an important principle, we hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible in Italy because other measures will be needed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u107	Senator Masini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u108	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to examine a measure which has always been undervalued, but which actually plays a fundamental role in the life of the nation: the law of a European delegation. The law of European delegation consists of a multitude of legislative delegations which Parliament gives to the Government in order to adapt the national regulatory framework to the new Community provisions. Also this year there are many areas where action is taken, from health to the environment, from cybersecurity to finance. Millions of our fellow citizens will therefore have to deal with these new rules. Given the importance of these laws, I would like to see the rapid identification of models that make it possible to anticipate the impact of this legislation on the socio-economic fabric. We often suffer from measures that penalise our entrepreneurs for the benefit of those of countries that are better structured in the practice of lobbying at the European institutions. On the other hand, we must learn to be much more prepared for legislative measures that are the link between Brussels and Rome. Trying to get into the detail of this which, as I said earlier, is an extremely complex measure but which affects different areas of the life of our citizens, it is necessary to make a passage first of all on the different European directives that our country is going to transpose. On every subject Forza Italia has tried to make its contribution to a better adaptation of European directives to the national legislative fabric, taking into account the peculiarities of our country and to ensure that they do not impact in a foreign way on the daily life of Italians. I have to say - let me say this little digression - that the debate in the Commission has been serene, cooperative and for this I feel like thanking all my colleagues of majority and opposition and the rapporteur, Senator Pittella, for having overcome the party fences and for trying to find a correct synthesis between the various positions. Probably the complexity of the act and the obviously erroneous perception that it does not directly affect national policies have meant that there were no external pressures that often and willingly stranded parliamentary work. Having said that, I return to the substance of the measure, citing only a few aspects on which we have had a significant impact. For example, as far as the communications sector is concerned, both the protection of users and the protection of copyright are a key issue for legislation. Although Forza Italia has always been ready to support the progress, development and simplification of new communication technologies, we must, however, carefully protect the rights of producers, but also those of consumers. In this direction we have tabled a number of amendments and agendas which have been accepted, perhaps reworded by the majority - that is - so that greater attention is required in the delegations to guarantee the products of our communication companies. There is no guarantee of individual artists, as Mr Gasparri said earlier, who often see their right of compensation compromised by the large non-European multinationals of streaming and dissemination. Another particularly important issue on which we have tried to make our contribution is the development of renewable energy, a topic that seems perhaps far from the citizens, but which actually has a direct and strong impact on their lives and their portfolios. The companies of the electric sector represent a fundamental strategic lever in support of the revival of the economy of the Country and, according to the national integrated plan for the energy and the climate, our Country will have to reach, in 2030, 30 percent of energy from renewable sources on the gross final consumption. For the electricity sector alone, this target would result in a value of more than 55% of renewables compared to the expected gross domestic consumption of electricity. This is certainly an ambitious challenge for which renewable sources will be called upon to play a primary role in the electricity market and to achieve such a development will have to be envisaged initiatives that also include investments to renew, and in some cases maintain in efficiency, existing plants. With this in mind, it is essential to overcome the barriers, including regulatory ones, that hinder the full development of renewable energy sources and it is in this direction that the delegations that the Government will have to face as soon as possible. There is also a change which we are particularly proud of and which has become an integral part of the text that we are about to vote on: my colleague, Senator Rizzotti, has tabled an amendment to include in the list of veterinary medicinal products which can be prescribed electronically even those with amazing or psychotropic action, as already happens for the same type of medicinal products in the human field. This too seems to be an intervention far from everyday life but the emergency Covid has shown that the dematerialization of medical recipes is useful and that the traceability and availability of information related to public health, and therefore also to the animal (because we all care about animal health), is fundamental for greater protection of citizens. So many areas of action in this measure, a measure that should give the exact measure of how much Europe and its Member States should work together for a truly consolidated and common development. So I cannot fail to reflect briefly on the state of affairs with regard to relations between our country and the European Union, and it is impossible not to start unfortunately from the tragedy of the Covid-19 and the terrible impact this pandemic has had on our society and our economy. The Community response was initially stammering, perhaps because of an extreme underestimating of the problem: the episode of national selfishness, with the blocking of the material at the border, or the slowness with which the instruments necessary to escape the emergency have made - alas - the very foundations of the Community institution to shake heavily in this first phase. Yet this law of European delegation, with its directives to be transposed and its delegated powers to be assigned, shows us that the main aim of the Union is to create common paths that can help all States to progress in a synchronized way on the road to economic, social and cultural development. The problem, therefore, is not Europe itself, but it is the use that individual states make of the instruments that Europe makes available to them. Allow me therefore to conclude by making a kind of appeal to the Government, to which we are giving a series of delegations today that will allow it to legislate on the most disparate topics, but at the same time, always on the European subject, has a great responsibility to draw up attractive and functional projects to take advantage of the funds of the recovery fund. With the Next Generation EU programme, Europe has the ambition of transforming the rubble left by Covid-19 into an opportunity to rebuild a more efficient, modern and greener continent, a Europe of rights and opportunities; an area where economic and social freedom allows everyone to build a future of hope and success. But Europe, when it is wrong, when it is doing the right thing, is not alone; it is a community. My appeal to the government goes in that direction. Don't do this on your own, please, don't handle this money on your own. A path of collaboration is created, because it is not acceptable for the Italian recovery plan to be represented by a few pages written among you and without any involvement of Parliament and civil society. This is not how we will exploit the extraordinary opportunity that Europe offers us, and that is not how we will change the face of Italy. Forza Italia immediately expressed its absolute and sincere willingness to help. We need unity of intent and to overcome ideological fences in order to get Italy out of the situation we are in. With this measure in the Commission we have shown that it is possible to do so. Now it is up to the government to accept the challenge and leave aside the small differences in order to pursue common goals. I'm not asking for it. The country is asking for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u109	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u110	Mr President, we could argue in different ways, going to see - as the rapporteur said before - the amendments or individual articles of this law or the same report as Italy's participation in the European Union. But I shall confine myself to a few elements, three in particular, which I believe have been quite emblematic of how unfortunately the majority of the Government, for the umpteenth time, has misused an instrument as important as the European delegation law, trivializing some situations that instead need great consideration, in our opinion, or simply by party taken, saying no, because to propose these things was the opposition. The same opposition that prepares amendments and proposes them and does not tell me that then we must also vote in favour, because some amendments are accepted. This is a very broad measure. What we asked the Commission first, that is to say the majority, is that we should be aware of what it means to acquire, under Italian legislation, European provisions which then cost our businesses and costs on our productive activities, all the more so at a time as serious as what we are experiencing from economic crisis. All of this, Mr President, has been condensed into an amendment proposed to Article 1, which I am going to read briefly: In the exercise of the delegation for the transposition of European directives and the implementation of the other acts of the European Union referred to in the preceding paragraph, the Government shall ensure that the burdens, whether financial or administrative, which fall on central governments, independent administrative authorities, regional or local authorities, economic operators and citizens are: (a) the least burdensome possible; (b) commensurate with the objective to be achieved; (c) appropriately mitigated by the granting of contributions or deductions. A very simple concept. There is European legislation, it is transposed. It must be borne in mind that this means costs, often and willingly sending our companies out of the market. Then we have made a point: they make themselves available, as I said, deductions and even direct contributions, so that the legislation can be transposed quickly and easily, but at the same time we avoid imposing a decisive burden, all the more so in a situation in which our economy is so put to the test with this economic crisis. The amendment was not accepted by the majority. The limit in these cases is limited to the agenda or to the recommendation which, unfortunately - I say this once again - too inflated, have lost all meaning. On the contrary, if there is a change to our Rules of Procedure and also in the relationship between the Government and Parliament, President, it would be precisely to establish that if a commitment is made, whether it is a motion, a agenda or a recommendation, when it is taken, it is taken seriously and then it must be taken into account. [[Applause.]] Otherwise we make fun of ourselves and the citizens. This is not acceptable; an agenda is adopted, it will also be announced in the newspapers that it has been approved, the majority makes it look like a concession and - as Totò would say and I stop here - with that you can blow your nose. This is the first question: the economic impact of this legislation has been completely underestimated, all the more so in a situation of serious economic crisis. Take good care; I am not saying good or bad about transposing the legislation. All I am saying is that without considering the cost that it produces, all the more so in a situation like this, it can have two effects, dear rapporteur: let us place our citizens and our companies in an obligation to follow the rules that they will transgress, because respecting them can mean going out of the market, or that we ourselves will obviously lighten the mesh of controls, because otherwise we close our businesses, we will be in breach and create a paradoxical condition. We have transposed the rule, we have settled with the form, but in essence all this creates a further problem. I shall then turn to another issue which is no less important. Mr President, in the six months of Covid-19 we have lost sight of a subject which is unfortunately always topical. I am referring to the debts of the public administration. Mr President, on 28 January 2020, when we were unfortunately caught up in all other problems, the European Court of Justice, in the Grand Chamber, ruled. I leave the judgment to the documents because I will not read it all, but for obvious brevity, I go straight to the bottom: in the light of all the considerations above, it must be stated that not ensuring that its public administrations do not actually comply with the payment times laid down in Article 4 (3) and (4) of Directive 2011/67, the Italian Republic has failed to fulfil its obligations under those provisions. For these reasons, the Court, in its main section, states and states firstly that: by failing to ensure that its public administrations do not effectively comply with the payment deadlines laid down in Article 4 (3) and (4) of Directive 2011/6/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on combating late payment in commercial transactions, the Italian Republic has failed to fulfil its obligations under those provisions. Second, it provides that the Italian Republic is ordered to pay the costs. Mr President, there is a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 28 January, which makes it clear that Italy is breaching its obligations in the payment of public administration's debts and within the time limits laid down by the European directives themselves. We already knew, they're telling us today in a sentence. Against this, being the provision in transit into the Senate, we present an extremely simple amendment that confers delegation to the Government. This is Amendment 20.0.7 - there are two other wordings which simply change transposition times, but the proposal is the same - which I read: (a) ensure that all public administrations effectively comply with the payment deadlines laid down in Article 4 (3) and (4) of Directive 2011/6/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on combating late payment in commercial transactions; (b) strengthen and lay down precise requirements in order to identify immediate consequences for public administration in the event of non-compliance with the rules on maximum payment times for public administration debts; c) to impose penalties on public administrations, as well as to guarantee the payment of interest on late payment and compensation for the recovery costs incurred by creditors, in the event of non-compliance with the payment periods provided for in Directive 2011/67/EU............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Modify them as you like. Mr President, this amendment transposes the judgment of the European Court of Justice. In the presence of Mr Castoldi in the Commission, my question was: Why does the Government take the opposite view? There was no answer. He had a speech on which it was written opposite opinion: either he didn't know what was written or I don't know. I would ask you for an extra moment, Mr President. It does not seem to me that this House is too busy with other problems, so much so that I cannot be allowed a moment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, Senator Candiani, you still have a few seconds, although your time is actually over. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr. President, I don't know how much time I had outside this theater. I thought I had ten minutes, but it's obviously passed. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I assure you, it's been ten minutes. I'll let you finish anyway. CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). You are very magnanimous, Mr President. I have here a prospectus coming directly from the Ministry of Economics and Finance's website, which I downloaded this afternoon. It says that, out of 47 billion debt, the government paid 45. This prospectus is updated to 5 October 2018: this is how it is written and you can see it all. This is the consideration that the Government is giving today to the debts of the public administration. I believe that this is at least unacceptable. [[Applause]] In the face of this, all I am saying is that we are doing and you are making a disaster: if we are giving money to companies and leaving money in the coffers of the public administration, not paying, it is very serious. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u111	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u112	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Representative of the Government, I would like to begin by thinking with you about an emotional matter before entering into the technical and substantive discourse. Here's the thing. For a coincidence this weekend I will be in Ventotene with a group of boys and girls from my territory to deepen the themes of Europe and to reason on those origins. Let us try for a second to think, we who are in this Chamber, if Altiero Spinelli today came through that door and knew that the Italian Parliament, the Senate of the Republic in particular, is discussing the substance of certain measures which must be transposed by all national parliaments and by all national governments and which try to become positive legislation to make European citizens make progress in relation to the future of their lives. You see, when we talk about a European dream and when we use a word - a dream - sometimes it may seem like something very far away and very abstract. Instead, the dream is this: it is that ability that men have to imagine a future that is not in that moment and that tenacity, that stubbornness, that strength and that creative ability to realize it. From a group of people exiled for a political confinum on a small island of the Mediterranean came a dream that today is not even remotely realized, but in which some of the consequences are measured in the concrete facts, in the daily life of all people, every day that passes. I have used a word, creativity: this is one of the most important consequences of this directive. What my colleague Mr Fedeli and other colleagues who have spoken very well in this House and on which the work of the Commission has focused very much, namely the transposition of that so-called copyright part, I would call it the protection of creative work, the protection of the rights of workers of creativity. We have nothing antimodern, we are absolutely convinced that technologies are a great opportunity for personal progress. However, we cannot think that someone gains - and gains much - on someone else's work and does not give due to those who actually did that work; this is far from modern, but it is something extraordinarily ancient, which we know, as old as man, and it is one of the reasons why politics is born. Politics is born precisely to build effective and positive rules that redistribute incomes and above all give to those who create, to those who work, to those who produce in their own time, with their own effort, with their own energy what is owed to them, especially to those who are weaker. It is therefore clear today that, in the face of someone who is very strong and who actually builds and realizes very little and but earns much on the work and effort of those who are often very weak, a sufficiently strong, sufficiently capable and necessarily political body is needed to restore that value to those who have realized it. This is the sense of the very important balance that has been found in the European Parliament. And I stress these words, because the node is precisely that: politics is this, it is building a balance between different cultures, between different countries, between states that have different cultures within them also on these issues, and finding a way to make it effective. Such legislation can only have a continental dimension, at the very least. Some time ago, two presidencies ago of the Italian Society of Authors and Publishers, I had dealt with one of the issues with it: how much copyright we lose in favour of the United States, because we - children a European culture - protect copyright much better and we return it rightly to the American authors, but on the other side of the ocean does not even remotely return the same figure, because, in a somewhat different logic, in which much the strongest governs (because there is a misconceived idea, in my opinion, of freedom of bargaining and rights), only the great authors are able to protect their creativity and all the small authors are not protected; and many of these are also our authors. The other issue I just want to touch on and which has been mentioned in part is that of renewable energy. In the meantime, I want to touch on it because I find them connected: I keep thinking that the red or green thread - let us call it what we want - of creativity is at the origin of this innovative capacity; and then because, once again, Europe has a boost, which is being strengthened precisely in these hours, with the vote that the European Parliament is putting into effect on the climate law, so that we are transposing some standards built in the past and in the meantime that place of elaboration continues to find points of convergence that look to the future, to ask us to do better and more. I understand and have listened carefully to the perplexities of some of my colleagues, but when we submit to rules, there is nothing anti-business or anti-business. Companies are stimulated by the rules that push to do better, because the entrepreneurial ability is precisely this: it never has anything to do with the preservation of the status quo, but it is the ability to imagine an idea that today is not yet there and to try to realize it in concrete. So, certain rules encourage companies to do better, to be more able to innovate and compete - even if it is a word I don't love very much - in the global market, instead of defending their positions of the past. I am convinced that Italian companies have only to gain from Community legislation that is particularly demanding and effective in the field of renewable energy at this time and, in general, in everything that can come from the so-called g reen new deal. As far as we are concerned, this means giving space to new jobs and new business capacities that think of a model of sustainable development and compatible with the needs of the future that the situation of our planet imposes on us. Mr President, I believe that Italy can earn a great deal from this delegation law and that it has a great deal of work for the current Government and for all the future ones to bring Italy to the point of value that it can have in Europe, taking into account what great Italians like Altiero Spinelli have been able to achieve. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u113	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u114	Mr President, I shall immediately begin by appealing to the majority and to the Government to declare immediately, as we have already asked on Monday, the state of emergency for the terrible flood disaster in Piedmont. Yesterday Governor Cirio was by the Interior Minister Lamorgese to communicate a first estimate of damages to public and private works, equal to one billion euros. We therefore ask the President of the Count Council and the Government to act immediately, because for Piedmont this is of extraordinary importance. The second appeal I make today is for those 18 Italian fishermen who are still prisoners in Libya without a precise accusation. [[Applause.]] Today the family protested in front of Montecitorio. The Government, which has so much to do in these days for migrants, shows at least a little 'dignity for Italian citizens and bring home our children! It is time for responsibility: the President of the Council, the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Interior show this. With regard to the law of European delegation, which provides the terms of the delegation to the Government for the transposition of regulations and directives, we observe that the text has also been partially integrated with some proposals made by the Lega-Salvini Premier Group. Of course, we are talking about the important issue of unfair trade practices, which mainly concern the agri-food world, but not only. Italy has already regulated them by Article 62, which provides for a very advanced regulation of trade relations relating to the supply of agricultural products and foodstuffs, with additional strengths compared to the same European Directive. However, some aspects remain on which national legislation needs to be adapted. I say this because European practices are difficult to frame at the level of breach of current competition legislation. Given that the instruments made available by national and European legislation are only effective in combating certain forms of competitive behaviour, the transposition of Directive 2019/633 could have taken action on this very issue. In fact, the text, as amended in the Commission, risks instead to affect what positive has been done so far by our country in order to be able to identify the presence, within an economic chain, of any unfair practice. Relying on two different bodies such as the Icqrf and the AGCM (in practice the key point is this) means that sanctions against possible offenders are ineffective. In fact, a number of disputes and appeals could arise because of the lack of competence of the authority involved, which would have the effect of imposing the current regulatory framework and allowing unfair practice to continue without any kind of measure. One aspect that needs to be improved is the efficiency of the agri-food supply chain; some dynamics need to be reviewed. The Competition and Market Authority had opened, on the basis of the powers conferred on it, two investigations into the dairy sector concerning the dynamics of the price formation of the supply chain. The need for the survey was that, today more than ever, the dynamics governing price formation are unclear and the information is very fragmented; milk is an example, such as animal husbandry. From here it falls then that, in the correct division of margins and revenues within the chain, the most penalized are the primary producers, the farmers and our stables: the price of milk today is 35 cents, against a cost, for those who work, gets up in the morning at 4 and until the evening is worried and works in the stable, of 0,40 cents; there is a dry loss on these products, but not only. There is also on animal husbandry, which on the meat side, has enormous problems and high production costs, compared to a supply chain that then does not bring back the necessary and due expenses in terms of profitability. We have before us a great opportunity, which is given to us by the resources of the recovery fund, to give competitiveness to the Italian agri-food supply chain. The Minister, during the hearing we held at our Commission on agri-food policies, spoke to us about a project park of 17 billion economic resources. We know that the agri-food chain during the emergency period has been extraordinarily important and has managed to overcome also the lockdown of the other companies, activities and supply chains connected to it; we are talking about the automation part, the machinery and the necessary equipment. But this strategic role does not turn out to be in fact, because today we are talking about a few resources, about EUR 1 billion for the agri-food sector, compared to the 17 needed. We need to know what are the certain resources, the time of application and, above all, who will have to determine their delivery. The Government cannot do this alone, but it must necessarily involve the Regions, because it is an important project to relaunch an extraordinary sector of our country. I would remind you that the Community's agricultural policy (CAP) has been cut by some EUR 34 billion. The impact is immediately evident at national level: a reduction of 370 million is expected already in 2021, 4% less on rural development plans and 15% less on direct payments to farmers. We are talking about a sector, agri-food, which is worth 540 billion, with 119 billion value added, 3.6 million people employed, 2.1 million companies and almost 50 billion euros of export. We therefore ask the Government, the Minister and the President-in-Office of the Council to really commit themselves to farmers, producers and the Italian agri-food chain, not only in words, but in deeds. First the Italians, always! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u115	Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u116	Mr President, allow me too to thank the rapporteurs, and in particular Senator Pittella, for the work carried out during the examination of the draft law of a European delegation, but also the Undersecretary, Mr Agea, who has been with us since last February, for the examination of both the draft delegation law and the final report on Italy's participation in the European Union. This is an important work, in which the deepening of the various issues has been possible thanks to the many hearings we have held with the representatives and the different stakeholders, as well as to the debate that took place in the Commission in the referent. The draft law under consideration is an important measure, as has already been mentioned, because it contributes significantly to the process of bringing the regulations of the Member States closer together and therefore of harmonizing towards European integration and the realization of the dream, which for many remains feasible, of a united Europe, also politically, as well as from the point of view of the approximation of economic systems and, in the future, we hope also of the social ones. What we are examining is a draft law on which Italy is playing a piece of its credibility, thanks to the contribution offered to reducing the number of infringement procedures and to avoid the opening of a new controversy, even if, at this moment, our credibility will be played mainly on the ability that we will be able to put in place in the preparation of the National Plan for Recovery and Resilience, for the use of the important resources of Next generation EU, with a work parallel to the examination of the law of European delegation, which at times has also made it seem over the examination of the measures contained in the draft law in question, but which instead we must consider complementary and coherent. The text before us is made up of a number of very important articles, with which 33 directives and 14 European regulations are implemented. Of particular interest to my Group is Article 3, which delegates the implementation of the 2018 directive on media and audiovisual services, through amendments to the single text in force, which is from 2005, to pave the way for a fairer regulatory environment for the audiovisual sector, as has been said, including on-demand services and the video sharing platform, for greater protection of minors, in particular, for the fight against incitement to hatred, for the promotion of European productions and to guarantee the independence of the regulatory authority in the sector. Our commitment, in particular, has been to demand that media service providers, including social platforms, provide information on any content that may harm the psychophysical development of children, including the prohibition of gambling advertising, as well as measures against those who use fictitious profiles, in order to alter the exchange of views, generate alarms and benefit from the disclosure of false news. This protection was necessary, not only for individuals, but for the very construction of the democratic process and for the formation of public opinion. We therefore consider this rule to be particularly important, as is Article 4, which contains an updated framework for the regulation of networks and services, as well as the tasks of the national regulatory authorities, with a view to the development of the new 5G networks at very high speeds, which must be linked to the protection of national security and public order. The following Article 5 also provides for the promotion of the use of energy from renewable sources and the indication by individual Member States of the targets to be achieved for 2030. The implementation of the Directive is closely linked to Articles 12 and 19, both relating to the internal energy market. There is particular attention to the production of energy from renewable sources according to the criterion of technological neutrality, as well as the principle of reuse and recycling linked to the production process of a fully circular economy, with the promotion of renewable and non-polluting sources for both self-consumption and community, with particular attention to public transport and, in the future, also air transport (the reference is to biofuels). The hope is that the agencies closest to the territory (so the municipalities) can plan a lower consumption of areas and the conversion of those unused, linking them to the installation of new plants towards sustainable development, smart and intelligent, in line with the Seventh Environment Action Programme, in the awareness that the protection of human health has to deal with the protection of the environment and the contrast to climate change, as we have well learned also because of the devastation of these last days. Article 6 deals with the internal market in order to give the competition authorities of the Member States more effective enforcement powers. Article 7 lays down principles on unfair commercial practices in the relationship between undertakings in the agricultural and food supply chain and thus introduces elements of greater transparency, for the benefit of the same supply chain and final consumers. Particularly important are the subsequent rules on the exercise of copyright, already mentioned by this House, and related rights, aimed at promoting the cross-border provision of online transmissions and the protection of copyright in the digital single market. The subsequent articles deal with financial and credit institutions, investment firms and small and medium-sized enterprises' access to credit, but also cybersecurity and cybersecurity. In fact, there are still many infringement procedures to respond to. Allow me to make a request to the representative of the Government, as well as to the President and members of the European Union's Political Commission. In my opinion, we should accompany the work of implementing European regulations with a greater commitment and attention to the bottom-up phase for the preventive evaluation of the European Commission's legislative proposals, in the context of that political dialogue that sees our country most protagonist in the construction of the European legal order and, therefore, in the process of bringing the Member States closer together, rethinking also a closer collaboration with the Regions, also called upon them to implement European legislative acts in matters of their competence. It is an important work, that of our country's participation in the construction of Europe, which can therefore see us as protagonists, in the interest of Italians and of a Europe that is perceived increasingly useful and close to the needs of both citizens and businesses. The issues dealt with in the European delegation bill are complementary and closely related to the objective of the transition to a green and neutral economy from the point of view of the environmental impact in 2050 and towards a digital economy, consistent therefore with the important work of building the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is engaging Government and Parliament in these days, waiting for the Commission's Regulation, also with a view to the end of April 2021, with the hope - and here I naturally appeal to the negotiation work that the Government will have to carry forward - that the so-called sovereign and anti-European countries do not cancel the results achieved at the European Council last July, in order to prepare useful tools to finally overcome the serious crisis generated by the Covid pandemic and the serious economic and social consequences produced. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u117	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u118	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on Article 7 of the draft law of the European Delegation 2019, which contains: "Principles and guiding criteria for the implementation of Directive (EU) 2019/633 on unfair commercial practices in relations between undertakings in the agricultural and food chain" I would like to thank the two speakers, Senator Pittella and Senator Gaudiano, and the Undersecretary Agea, with whom we have worked very well, and I thank them very much. When, more than a year ago, Parliament and the European Council adopted this rule, I believe that all those who follow the agricultural world and care about the issues of quality, safety, social sustainability, justice and fairness in food trade relations have rejoiced (and had reason to do so). The path that is now entrusted to us, after the approval, is to put the Government in a position to issue the implementing legislative decrees to give life in concrete to what contains the important directive n. 633 of 2019. It is important because a firm point is put in place and normative references and instruments are activated to affect the functioning of a system of commercial relations in agriculture that is now in many cases actually pathogenic, wrong and to be rethought. What are we talking about? We are talking about unfair practices, which I can summarize with some examples: delays in payments far beyond what is provided for by trade agreements; unilateral retroactive changes in contracts; cancellation of orders without an estimate; payments by cutting, according to the buyer, the products deteriorated without any possibility of contradictory; imposition of payments of services and initiatives not related to the sale of the agricultural product by stronger subjects on the commercial level; refusal to sign written contracts; abuse of confidential information; threat of sanctions in the case of the same incorrect regulations; overturning of customer complaints without possibility of verification on suppliers; double-down auctions and under-cost sales with unfair practices. The debate initiated by the European Parliament on these issues was accelerated by a figure that may seem trivial, but in those weeks there was a massive merger of purchasing power stations by the Carrefour power plant and the Tesco power plant, which created a European purchasing pool that exceeded 150 billion euros in turnover. You understand that for the agricultural world and for the processing of agricultural products dealing with a buying giant that has a value of 150 billion creates very heavy consequences. Again, in the course of the discussion with which we arrived at this measure, a large purchasing power station of an Italian distribution chain implemented a devastating double-down auction. Only in order to understand us, this means asking dozens of suppliers to submit offers of products with specifications to Later; then, take the product with the lowest price and the most advantageous specifications and on this ask all the other subjects to make an auction for supply; which means to put basically on the knees of the entire section. The consequence of this has led in recent years to the payment of agricultural products at 9, 12, 15 or 17 cents per kilo for products that, only to be collected, cost 11, 12 or 13 cents per kilo. You understand that the condition that comes to be created is devastating, moreover for products that we find on the shelves of supermarkets to a euro and a half or two per kilo. So, it's a really deadly situation. Personally, I have always believed that there is a need for great attention to market dynamics, but this must take place within a framework of firm and firm rules, that they are strong, because market freedom without rules or with weak or inapplicable rules is in fact a sort of far west, and in these situations the weakest pays the bill of all. I believe that Article 7 of this delegation law has done a good job, because - let us be clear - Article 62 of Decree-Law No. 1 of 2012, which we had for some years experienced, has in fact never brought any fruit and in this delegation that we give to the Government we include that to coordinate the entire regulatory framework with Article 62. I think this is a very well done thing. We must be grateful to the rapporteurs and the Government for having accepted many amendments in the delegation law that we are about to approve and I believe that we have enabled the Government to implement, through one or more legislative decrees, an action that can be really useful to the whole country and not only to agriculture. I think that we all want an agriculture that is not bent and exploited and that has no bags that, with an improper idea of recovery of competitiveness, exploit workers, rape the environment or ignore the basic safety standards. We do not want larger companies or large groups of large-scale retailers to be able to benefit from the damage of smaller or less capable companies. At least, we want to take action to reduce this. We are not dreamers, but we believe that the market must be regulated, in order to allow all actors who operate properly, efficiently, without waste and with the necessary quality of the products to be able to do so without being subject to blackmail, abuse or abuse of power. This rule puts in our hands the tools to go forcefully in that direction. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u119	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u120	Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor in a general debate which is particularly important - it is always said, but this time it is true - on the substance and method. On the substance, of course, for the importance of the delegation law and for the framework in which it is adopted, but also in the method, because this House will finally come back to vote on the amendments, and therefore a measure without confidence (which should be the norm, but it has become the exception). It is therefore all the more important - and I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their attention - that there should be a general discussion in which we can explain the subject and also the amendments which we, as the Lega Group, have tabled responsibly. What we asked for and that unfortunately there wasn't - Senator Candiani recalled - was an overall vision, as a whole. However, we have tried to improve the text, and on this we have taken note of the willingness of the rapporteurs. As we have said several times (for the sake of the simplification decree, it was worth it yesterday in the discussion on the guidelines on the recovery and resilience plan), there is always something to add: there we are at the limit, because, on 38 pages, one is on the environment, while the opinion of the Environment Commission will be 30 pages, almost as much as the main act. This is to say that something can always be improved and added and I will give three examples of the measure we are going to vote on: one on Article 5; one on Article 6 and one on what Article 22 will be, given the new order in the text coming to this House. Article 5, on renewable energy sources, is fine, it is excellent; indeed, the Commission has particularly amended the basic text, with many additions. Everything was thought of: where to place the photovoltaic panels and the question of former landfills (we talked about it and, also as a Lega Group, we tabled amendments on this). The last meter is missing: why not give the government the indication to work on the recovery of waste electrical and electronic equipment, both those before 2014 and others, involving in this, moreover, collective systems and consortia? It is very good to think about the environment and renewable energy, but if this produces waste, do not think about this too and do not ask the government to transpose the European directive in that direction (there is one) it is certainly a lack that there is a way to fill, to have the last meter and to completely close that circular economy and the waste cycle. Another example concerns plastics, currently in Article 22 of the draft law. In this regard, there is a lack of vision and updating of a speech, because after the Covid talk about disposable plastic is not the same as before, because it saved us. I have here some examples, like a plastic glass. Clearly it would bother me if I were to find him at the top of the Dolomites, but the same glass we found on the hospital bedside table, on the train or at school, and that saved us and is saving us from contagion. [[Applause]] Therefore, an ideological attack on plastic as a material is harmful, as well as absolutely unjustified. Compared to Article 22, we have therefore made simple demands. There would have been no need to do so, and if you had told us to reject these amendments, because the government would have thought about it, we would have understood that. However, there should be no need to ask for clear definitions to be ensured in order to properly delimit the scope of the measures, especially for food containers. To say that we must identify the mechanisms to ensure a gradual transition, allowing conversion, is fundamental: in part, as a League we did in the financial maneuver approved in December 2018 (it seems to me that it was paragraph 652 that we proposed at the time). Why do we always have to be first in the class? If Europe gives us times, why should we not use them all? It's inexplicable. It is appropriate to provide for compensation mechanisms and possible cost increases, which can be facilitated; I am thinking of the costs these companies have. We look at Europe and one of the pillars it had established was to think about the cost to the company, when something is introduced into the legislation; then there should be no need, but we wrote it and you did not give it to us. We have proposed to exclude from the scope, for example, food containers superior to the single portion, because however it is an advantage: containers that contain more portions maybe avoid that a subject buys five single portions. Let's also consider this. Finally, as Mr Candiani has said several times, we asked for the commitment that the adaptation of existing legislation should be done without excessive procedural and economic burdens on companies. They're punishment, there shouldn't be any need, but we wrote them down, so let's hope you can share them, otherwise the problem wouldn't be to have rejected an amendment from the League, but to have created a problem with the country system. I leave the last example for an agenda, because I know very well that Article 6 could not include such a forecast (it is a bit of a constraint). We met with the Undersecretary Agea and President Coltorti, but it is essential that the Government make a commitment on the ultralight. On 4 July 2018, a European regulation was approved that allows aircraft to be considered ultralight up to 600 kilograms; it is an innovative and fundamental provision, especially for Italy, which is a leading producer at international level. Well, it is a faculty for states: Germany has caught it in the air, we have been waiting for a year and a half. The commitment is addressed to the government and there is a unanimous will, I believe, both political and economic, to accept this possibility. In fact, let us pass the damage caused by not following the upward stage; let us even go through the fact that we impose on ourselves what we should not; but we absolutely cannot afford not to seize the few opportunities that Europe gives to all states and to see ourselves surpassed by others who are more attentive. We therefore hope that on these points which I have examined the House and the Government will be able to accept our proposals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u121	We have now exhausted the list of Members to speak in general debate. As decided at the Conference of Leaders, the last two speeches are postponed until next week. I therefore refer the following to the discussion of the draft law at another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u122	Colleagues, please note that the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 11 a.m., provides for communication, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, of the presentation of a bill of conversion of decree-law. It's a simple announcement of a few minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u123	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u124	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u125	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, on 14 August 2018, as you all know, the Morandi Bridge collapsed in Genoa. In the immediacy of the event, two days later, to be exact, the Ministry sent a letter of objection of debit to the Aspi, the company that managed the concession. More than two years have passed since then and the administrative procedure has not yet been completed. However, on 15 July 2020, the Council of Ministers issued a statement stating that a transactive agreement was reached. In particular, the central question of this understanding would have been the immediate escape from Aspi of Atlantia and Benetton, with the passage of control to a subject with State participation. The adjective used was "immediate," with reference to the transition to a subject with State participation. Three months have passed since 15 July and this has not yet happened. I would ask you, Mr President, to point out to the Government that my question has been lying in a drawer for a year, even though it was presented on 15 October 2019, to ask the extent to which the procedure for the reduction of the concession was to be carried out, because something must be done after two years. It is due to the relatives of the 43 victims of the disaster, to a city and a country that have been stunned, they have their eyes focused on this Government and on this administrative procedure and do not forget, as I do not forget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u128	Floridia (M5S). Mr President, today in this House I would like to remember and commemorate the sacrifice of Petty Officer Aurelio Visalli of Venetico, in my territory, who died in Milazzo to try to save two children. [[Applause]] We want to honor him in this House because, in addition to fulfilling his duty, he was a man, a boy, who was actually a witness of kindness and generosity in his life. I hope that there will be clarity on the dynamics of his death, so that the family can find total comfort and explanation. Anyway, I like to remember him as the family does: hero alive, because actually heroes can only be once; men, however, must be every day and he was, with greatness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u129	Thank you, Senator Floridia. I personally join, on behalf of the Presidency of the Senate and the entire Assembly, the memory of Petty Officer Visalli, also for all those who sacrifice themselves in the exercise of their duty. Thank you so much. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u132	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I refer to the image of the Governor of Piedmont depicted in the place of Aldo Moro during his detention in the den of the Red Brigades appeared next to the social center Askatasuna of Turin; to the manifestos of threat against the commissioner De Matteis, the Prefect Palomba, the leader of the Digos Ambra and some magistrates, including the Attorney General Saluzzo; to the envelope containing two bullets 9x21, sent to judge Bonu only reality of having denied alternative measures to the detention for the spokesman of the Movement No TAV Dana Lauriola: the leaflets speak of the TAV mafia in the police station, prefecture and tribunal. Two 30- and 50-year-old members of the Resistance Committee for Communism (CARC) were stopped, still with glue and brushes in their hands. They searched their homes and other material was found and seized. The fact that for the investigators the posters depicting President Cirio and those on the magistrates are not connected is extremely worrying from my point of view. The whole thing should not be taken as a goliardic joke and should not be underestimated, also given the not tender age of the two arrested. This is yet another confirmation that the TAV is just an excuse. These gentlemen want to challenge the institutions and with them the state. As I have pointed out on several occasions in this House, it is time for the institutions to take note of this and to demonstrate a firm contrast to this kind of attitude. It is time for the political forces that make up the Government, especially one, to distance themselves and strongly and officially condemn the no-TAV protesters who, as shown by the facts, have nothing to do with the valleyrs, but they have much to do with the anarcho-insurrectionalists. It is time for Minister De Micheli to start the work of the niches on the Italian side, since in France work for the High Speed never stopped. Turin and Italy have already experienced a period of terror in the seventies and the Turinese sincerely do not deserve to lap into this nightmare. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u133	Thank you for your timely prayer.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u134	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u135	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u136	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I use these three minutes because, even if we have finished the debate on the August Decree, there are commitments that should be mentioned in this House, because they have been taken up by the Government and will certainly have to be taken up by successive decrees, at the latest with the budgetary manoeuvre that the Chambers will face shortly. There are three issues. The first concerns the game - let's call it this - of tourism, because we left out (among other things there is the undersecretary Agea who was aware of the issue) a series of cities of art from contributions to the historical centers and their activities. There was the possibility to identify a path for the Regions of Central Italy, in particular those affected by the earthquake, and you could perhaps make an operation like that made for the decree I throw again. Specific aid could be envisaged for these regions with regard to cities of art (I think in a particular way to Assisi, although the whole of Umbria is an art city, where we also met with Senator Pavanelli), precisely because they are particularly affected and tried areas. Same reasoning for the decontribution from the burden on employees: in this case, too, areas could be identified, always included in the four regions affected by the earthquake of August 2016, and the possibility of a decontribution could be identified. In the Budget Committee, the Government accepted our agendas - which were originally amendments - as a recommendation. I would therefore like to remind the House now, in the presence of those who had followed these events, that there is the will of all political forces to take into account both the contributions to the cities of art and the issue of decontribution and not just for specific areas of the country. Finally, I would also like to point out, because it was between the amendments and the commitments that had been made, the problem of extending the benefit already provided for professional companies and small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. access to grants. I am talking about this now because I think that every moment of the parliamentary debate should be used to recall these commitments that drag from decree to decree and that the Government must assume.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-07-LEG18-Senato-sed-262.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, at 11 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed at 19.11 a.m.
