ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u3	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the current situation in prisons. I call the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u4	Mr President, as you know, there have been serious disturbances in many prisons throughout Italy since 7 March. Without using a twist of words, the events involved almost all the Regions of Italy, declining in different ways in individual cases. We can say, in fact, that in some cities, such as Treviso, Turin, Rovigo and Potenza, they were protests without damage, while in other cases, such as Modena, Naples and Foggia, they were real revolts, which lasted hours, which also led to dramatic consequences. Allow me first of all to thank the prison police and all the staff of the penitentiary administration. [[Applause]] , because once again they are demonstrating professionalism, a sense of the state and courage to face, putting at risk their own safety, very difficult and tense situations, in which what makes the difference is often the ability to keep the nerves firm, lucidity and balance in understanding and choosing in a few moments the best line of action to bring everything back to legality. I would like to stress that in all the most serious cases the institutions have proved to be compact: magistrates, prefects, Quaestors and all the Forces of the Order have intervened without hesitation, making the face of the State even more determined in the face of the criminal acts that were being consumed. I would like to take a moment to comment on this point. Outside of legality and even violence we cannot talk about protest; we simply have to talk about criminal acts. I also say this to underline that the images of the most serious disorders and episodes are attributable to a small part of the prisoners. Most of them, in fact, have manifested their suffering and their fears with responsibility and without resorting to violence. The time allowed to me does not allow me to report in detail on individual cases in each city, so I will send today a detailed report of the Department of the penitentiary administration, a report which, however, cannot be considered definitive, given that the reconstruction of events, the causes and the related consequences are still being investigated. These are facts which, among other things, are at the attention of the judiciary. However, I think it is appropriate to inform Parliament now about the case of Foggia, stating that it is information that emerged from the first service reports and that will clearly be deepened in every respect. In Foggia on March 9, 2020, around 9.40 a.m., some prisoners began the revolt by setting fire to sheets and mattresses and damaging furnishings inside the bedrooms, activating the intervention of the prison police. Meanwhile, a large number of other prisoners, about 200, at that time present in the courtyards of walks in conversation with the commander, en masse took the corridor towards the exit of the departments. During the journey they forced the gates between the sections favoring the exit of other prisoners and, after an attempt to reach the director, in the meantime happened, failed attempt thanks to the intervention of the prison police, they continued in their action by undoing the inner gate of the porta carraia, managed to overcome the resistances of the prison police and took themselves out of the perimeter walls of the institute in 72. Subsequently, thanks to the joint work of the prison police and other law enforcement forces, promptly alerted, 56 of them were taken back to prison. At the time, 16 prisoners were found to be at large, who were subject to the medium security regime. There is serious structural damage. The overall balance of these riots is of more than 40 injuries of the prison police, to which goes all my closeness and the wish for prompt recovery, and unfortunately of 12 deaths among the prisoners, for causes that, from the first reliefs, seem mostly attributable to the abuse of substances removed from the infirmary during the disorders. These events are located within the dramatic emergency that is subjecting the country to a very hard trial and it is evident that many prisoners are actually concerned, especially in conditions of overcrowding, with the impact of coronavirus on their health and prison conditions. It is good to clarify that, from the very first warning of the epidemic, the Department of the penitentiary administration has moved to safeguard the health and safety of all those who work and live in prison. The first note of 22 February 2020 provided for the exemption of all penitentiaries resident or resident in the municipalities of the first cluster to be entered into service at their respective offices; the prohibition of entry for anyone (external staff, teachers, volunteers, family members, to give some examples) came from those territories; the suspension of the translations of prisoners from and to the penitentiary institutions of the providetorati of Turin, Milan Padua, Bologna, Florence; the establishment of a crisis unit for the monitoring of the development of the phenomenon and the information related to suspected or confirmed cases and for the timely adoption of the consequent initiatives. On 25 February, the circular of the Ministry of Health was sent to all the penitentiary departments, inviting the local authorities and directors to contact the local health units in order to conform to the directives and adapt the context of the reference penitentiary; to arrange in the institutes spaces where to allocate the prisoners if necessary to allow the possible phase of isolation in cases of suspected infection; to interrogate with the competent judicial authorities to agree on the modalities of possible translations for reasons of justice, also considering the possibility of guaranteeing the presence of the prisoner with the support of the videoconference. It is also worth noting the special attention to be paid to prisoners from outside, the so-called new joints, predisposing small tensile structures to be dedicated to the so-called pre-triage. There are currently 83 tensile structures and a further 14 tents have been requested for the Emilia-Romagna, Lazio and Abruzzo regions. Finally, a request was made to the authorities to identify the requirements for protective devices, with particular reference to all personnel carrying out operational services or activities which could lead to direct exposure to contagion, which was sent to the Civil Protection Operational Committee on 28 February. In the meantime, with the note of 26 February 2020, the directors of the penitentiary institutions were asked to start a widespread activity of information and awareness of the population held, to be informed and to be able to share any provisions to be adopted, especially with regard to the temporaryity of the same, in order to limit the opportunities for possible infection or in any case the development and spread of the virus within the institutions. These administrative acts are then incorporated into the most well-known and recent decree-laws of 2 March 2020, No 9, and 9 March 2020, No 14. It should be recalled that the latter, among the measures to protect the health of prisoners, includes, for a period of fifteen days, a limitation of the talks with the relatives or with other persons to whom the prisoners are entitled, while at the same time establishing an extension - where possible and even beyond the limits - of the remote interviews. This is a technical time needed to deal with all the precautions needed to enable the family talks to resume rapidly. Just yesterday came the first supply of about 100,000 masks, which are being distributed, primarily intended for operators who access from outside. Since today, in agreement with the Civil Protection, also as a result of the extension of the so-called protected zone to the whole of the national territory, the swabs will be made to the prisoners transferred in various ways, in addition to the operations of pre-triage. It is clear that all these efforts, made by the administration for the sole purpose of preventing the outbreak from spreading in prisons, are likely to be severely compromised by the riots of these days that have caused the inevitability of a very high number of detention posts. In Modena, for example, much of the institute has become unworkable. We are talking about revolts carried out by at least 6,000 prisoners throughout the national territory, almost at the same time, which have in fact highlighted the already well-known structural deficiencies of the prison system. Now, we can also come across - as someone has done - a long disquisition between security vision and treatmental vision. In this regard, it would be quite easy to reply that, since I was Minister of Justice, I have provided for 2.548 additional prison police officers, of which 1,500 are already in service and 754 are in the near future. As for the treatment area, I have provided for a number of working protocols that have no precedent, without considering the investments of the last budget law, which greatly strengthen the profile of rehabilitation. These are circumstances well known to the current majority, but also to a part of the opposition, which was to the Government when the investments that I am continuing to carry out were made. And we could also try to venture into the responsibilities of a structurally dilapidated system, pretending not to know that it is the result of a disinterest in the execution of the sentence accumulated over the decades. But I propose that we simply tell the truth: in recent years, everything is being done to ensure a system that respects the dignity of workers and prisoners in the prison world. It's not easy for anyone, but we're doing everything we can. It is right that this commitment should be intensified precisely during this period, in which the health of all must be protected, and it is right to listen to the demands that come also from prisoners who respect the rules and who demonstrate that they follow a path of true re-education. But we must also have the courage and honesty to say that this has nothing to do with fires, damage, devastation, even violence against prison police officers. I repeat that we are working tirelessly in the framework of a broader battle against coronavirus. The task force within the Ministry is preparing possible interventions to secure prison police officers on the one hand and inmates on the other. But we must remain calm and be united with an awareness: this is a difficult time for the country. It is our duty to make it clear together that the Italian State does not retreat one inch in the face of lawlessness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u5	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Justice. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u6	Mr President, Minister, I believe, first of all at this moment that it is truly dramatic for Italy, that our debate must be found on a fundamental point: to express solidarity and gratitude to the prison police and to the staff who work in prisons, who at this moment, just like doctors and nurses, deserve the praise of the whole nation. Thanks to them we can hope to stand. [[Applause]] In my opinion, we must also use, as far as we can, a language of truth. When the Minister recently recalled a lack of interest accumulated for years, such problems as overcrowding and prison conditions that often do not meet the minimum standards of dignity, he told the truth. Unfortunately, we must bear this in mind, because to think that he or the last Ministers can be charged with a situation that comes from afar is deeply unfair, in personal and political terms. Sloal because the same type of disorders and deaths that have unfortunately occurred in these circumstances, some of which are now acclaimed and linked to the use of methadone and drugs taken in the assaults on infirmities and health facilities, confirm us once again that there is a spiral between the supply of drugs, the talks with family members, the stay in prison and the overcrowding. All this is held together in a single perverse circuit, which makes prisons very often areas of production of new marginalizations. Think of the people who have made a mistake, who have perhaps made a serious mistake and would simply like to resume a path of reintegration into society, as our Constitution assures them. These situations come from afar. There have been protests these days. Colleagues, here we must understand ourselves on one point; I have perhaps mistaken ideas, but clear: in my opinion we are in a world war. This is the third world war that our generation is committed to living. It is not something less, but it is destined to change our habits much more than 9/11. I remember, as President of the Chamber of Deputies of that time, how we lived on 9/11 and what he forced us to do. Of course, he forced us to change some of our behaviors. Probably since then, when we go to airports, the controls are more stringent, but it is nothing compared to what is happening today, which also undermines households and puts people in a position to not be able to see themselves out of fear of contagion. In the face of this world war scenario, the Minister has come to tell us about disorders that have been organized. In fact it is impossible that they could break out simultaneously on the entire national territory and divided the prison population among the decent people, who had the real worry about the coronavirus and made civil protests, aimed at talks with the prison leaders (these prisoners should not be abandoned, because they behaved with respect for the legality and institutions of the State), and the others, who are like those saboteurs who during the world wars acted not against the enemy, but within the friendly lines. These characters, these organized violence and these criminals must have the answer of a zero tolerance from the State: it is not possible to speak of acts of clemency or of relief of punishment before these warriors, who must have only one response from the State: that of firmness in enforcing the rules. Colleagues, let us be careful: this is the warning of what we risk seeing happen in a few days in other areas of our State, if the answer is not firm and determined. We are not a dictatorial state and we do not want the coronavirus to transform Italy into a dictatorial state, because we love democracy and because these benches are the expressions of a democratic life. Our differences, including those we have had with you, Minister, on the prescription, are also children of a democratic life that we want to respect. But, ladies and gentlemen, democratic life in times of emergency such as these, while our old people are at risk of not being treated in hospitals, must be nourished not only by understanding, but also by inflexible compliance with the law. Then, Minister, I feel comforted by your words and even more comforted by your behaviour in the coming days, because I believe that on this border of prisons, unfortunately, we risk playing at these moments something that in the next few hours - God forbid - we might have to play in other areas. The state must be there, because if we can overcome the coronavirus, we will certainly have to do so to the intelligence of citizens, to the behaviors that change people, but also to the fact that the state is there and enforce the rules. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and IV-PSI and the Senators Laforgia and Lonardo.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u7	He is enlisted to speak Senator Pharaoh. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u8	Mr President, let us start from the assumption that violence is not acceptable and that negotiations are not being made with those who devastate prison structures, with those who escape, with those who disturb or strike prison police officers, to whom all our solidarity and thanks go for the work they have done and are doing, I must say, in very few respects to the prison population. With those who have generated such violence, no kind of negotiation can be opened. But, dear Minister, neither is incompetence acceptable, nor violence. The head of the DAP has very serious responsibilities in this matter and it is good that he goes home because you cannot pretend that nothing has happened. The perfect storm of a red zone of health and economic Italy, to which is added the tsunami coming from prisons - the emergency in the emergency - is something that we cannot afford. In those so crowded prisons there is the mirror of those judicialist policies that we have often contested. In these years, wrong policies have made it easier to enter prison; sentences have been made longer and it has been made more difficult to get out of prison, with a perverse idea that has wedged into our democracy, namely that the more people there are in jail the more our system of justice and security works. It is the exact opposite, Minister: to re-educate, says our Constitution, and instead we exalt ourselves when we can say and shout to lock up, to punish. Sixty thousand people on each other in those cells; people forced in pitiful conditions, among other things with a forecast of growth of the prison population that will arrive in the coming years to 70,000 units, in a condition for which, on the contrary, prison structures will grow in number and in size inversely proportional to how many people will go to prison. All this, among other things, when the crime index - fortunately, thanks to the Forces of Order and thanks to the actions put in place in these years - is falling. There is no longer armed struggle in this country and the Mafia has lowered the level of its violence; therefore, the presence of prisoners in our prisons increases in a context in which, instead, our country has shown that it can put in place adequate security conditions. Of course, I agree with what President Casini said, namely that you cannot blame yourself, Minister, on the condition of prisons at the moment, but I certainly wonder how you do not understand - by those who run prisons in Italy - that in this dramatic situation it is very little enough to trigger chaos. How could we fail to understand that, with the spread of the coronavirus and the new safety measures that had to be put in place (the reduction of external contact, the prohibition of visits to family members, the limitation to the opening of the cells) could trigger the disaster that we have witnessed throughout Italy. I believe that all this was quite predictable, especially from those who - like the head of the DAP - should have direct contact with staff, with the director of prisons, extraordinary people who, if consulted, would probably have suggested ways of implementing the same completely different measures. Such measures taken in this way arise from a fairly inhuman idea that those who enter prison stop being man and become things. Well, I believe that the approach taken by the DAP has triggered everything, along with the methods used to implement the measures. Inmates, as I said, are regarded as objects and not people. On the contrary, if they had been held responsible and involved, if they had been told that the measures taken were primarily intended to protect their health conditions and the health conditions of their families, there probably would not have been all the chaos that was generated instead, Minister. From this point of view, we certainly need to be united; to take extraordinary and - I repeat - tough measures against those who have been responsible for acts of violence within the structures. On the other hand, however, it is also necessary to be able to build conditions so that, in such delicate contexts as prisons, in the situation in which they are placed and which I have represented in my speech, they have become more aware of taking such extraordinary measures. You, Minister, had to anticipate what happened. If those who run the DAP had built, with the operators and with all those who live in prisons day by day, the measures to be taken and how to take them, we would probably have found ourselves in a different condition. That is why, Minister, we do not think that we can quietly ignore anything: we must act hard against the perpetrators of violence and disorder, but we must also act on those who have been responsible for all this, who is the leader of the DAP, and we ask that it be removed. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u9	Senator La Pietra is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, as a member of the Brothers of Italy Group, I have an attitude that I call patriotic and I always try to cooperate when it comes to matters of national interest. I have listened to your report, but despite my efforts, forgive me, Minister, certainly for my personal limitations, I have not been able to understand well what your line is and what you really want to do to solve the problem of the prison situation. You have come to this House and you have given us a list of facts that the television news and the social media have already outlined to us, without giving us a precise idea of what you will be doing in the future. This isn't about dumping past responsibilities on you. We need to know what we want to do to resolve the situation from now on. Your report, Minister, could well have been read by any official who merely listed the facts. We would have demanded and demanded something more from you: a political stance, because you represent the responsibility of this Dicastery, a position that goes beyond the obvious but due appreciation to the prison police and the police in general. We therefore want to know what he intends to do about repeated requests, the unheard appeals of those who risk their lives in the service of the State on a daily basis. For some time now, Brothers of Italy have raised the issue, drawing your attention to the possible risk situations that Coronavirus could have created in prisons, if not well monitored and anticipated in time. Not that we of Brothers of Italy are great scientists. A minimum of common sense and above all a knowledge I do not say in depth, but at least general of the situation within Italian prisons. The now widespread overcrowding of prisoners in unsuitable facilities, personnel not adequately protected and under-staffed and a heterogeneous prison population create the ideal conditions for transforming Italian prisons into potential powder kegs and to this has been added the coronavirus. On that occasion we asked her for more attention for the prison police, who are already working in a situation of precarious physical and health security. Unfortunately, we have been easy prophets, in the light of the revolts that have been - because these are revolts, they are not protests - in various prisons from Salerno to Modena, from Foggia to Pavia, to Rome, Naples, Frosinone and Prato, with devastation and serious damage to the structures, unfortunately with victims (we must mourn the victims), wounded and bruised. After the first warning, Minister, after Salerno, we thought that you could intervene promptly, for example, as we asked you, by suspending all those measures relating to dynamic surveillance. We were asking for certain answers and perhaps the worst could have been avoided. You had to be the first to worry about that and you didn't. He has never listened, I do not say we of Brothers of Italy - I can also understand this - but those workers who, as I said, do their work every day, in an increasingly precarious way, even creating a rift between her and them. It is no coincidence that all the most important trade union acronyms have decided - if I have not been misinformed, Minister - not to participate in the table you had summoned, in fact delegitimizing your person in this role. Mr Minister, we have considered your appeals to the prisoners to be weak, just as they are no longer sufficient, for us, just the compliments of the police. As I said, we want strong answers. Those responsible must be severely identified and punished for the multiple crimes they have committed. We cannot give up on these premeditated acts of destabilizing the state. In these hours, I've read some news agencies where we're talking about indults and preemptive release. You will find us clearly and strongly opposed on this front, Minister. The legality must be restored and the penalties must be exemplary, other than release! We can't think of decongesting the penitentiary system by anticipating release. The system can only be lightened by concrete acts: foreign prisoners must serve their sentence in their country. Where are we on this deal? We've been talking about this for years. We need more resources, more men and more means: we need to put police officers in a position to defend themselves; we need a national plan on prison structures. Minister, at this time of crisis, we cannot lower our guard. The State must be present. If we go in this direction, Brothers of Italy is ready to do her duty; otherwise, she will always find strong opponents in us. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Leonardo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u11	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u12	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened in many prisons in our country in recent days is very worrying. The uprisings were serious, but the consequences were very serious. You listed them for us. A heartfelt and sincere thanks must be given to the women and men of the prison police, in the first place, and to all the Forces of the Order who have worked with professionalism even outside of their shifts, having been called back into service to bring the situation back to a normal that unfortunately has nothing. Mr. Minister, I want to point out that the chief of the Department of Penitentiary Administration's management has been very lacking. Is it possible that the suspension of the talks could lead to such widespread and uncontrolled violence? Could the burden of the emergency weigh only on the limitation of the rights of prisoners? Agents, educators, doctors, nurses, psychologists, directors, prisoners in semi-freedom, who every day enter and leave prison without any protection, would they be immune by decree? Why have we not given clear and precise guidelines on an early communication that would reassure prisoners and trade unions in ensuring viable alternatives such as health filters, phone calls, Skype talks and other solutions? All these measures were generally donated to the discretion of the providers and directors left alone to face unpredictable reactions. How could the top of the chain of command be deprived of the deep awareness of the delicate balance that regulates life in our prison structures, lacking in many points of view, starting from building - you know well - and crowding, which would make it impossible to prevent contagion such as, for example, being one meter away (which is recommended to all citizens), until reaching the chronic shortage of personnel not able to guarantee the indispensable vigilance in night shifts? This has been reported several times. This situation is well known, already at the limit and repeatedly denounced, to the point that just a few days before the emergency coronavirus myself, together with the representatives of all the majority groups, I signed a bill to increase the possibility of telephone talks in prison. Of course, there is also the exploitation of riots with the timely external support of family members to obtain collective and individual benefits, but it is well known that the prison system has long been a powder keg ready to explode. It was enough, therefore, a spark to propagate the deflagration quickly throughout Italy. In this context there have been delays, indecisions, stutterings, lack of information and inability to find by the director of the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP), involving, first of all, the guarantors for prisoners, trade unions and local leaders, a different discipline of the talks and of the entire prison life respectful of the health security rules that were issued. Many ignore that the talks are not the only contact of prisoners with their affections, but also the main possibility to receive food, clean linen and basic necessities. Suddenly changing this balance without giving the right information and above all reassurance was a very serious mistake. Added to this is the fear of contagion in a space where hundreds of bodies, between convicts and operators, share the same narrow spaces. In all this the absence of the head of the DAP has been unjustifiable. Where were you during the riots? We only saw directors and guarantors. Minister, I fully agree with your speech condemning violence, but that is not enough. Just as I find ridiculous the words of those who invoke the iron fist without even knowing what he is talking about. I say this with the experience of those who have not hesitated, when necessary, to inflict dozens of life sentences and thousands of years of imprisonment; they are not subjects on which to make populism. The right to the dignity and life of prisoners is just as valuable as that of all other citizens, and you know that very well. I was surprised to hear that only yesterday, and not before, masks and sanitary equipment were sent to prisons. We are a democracy and we must show it in this too. Let us consider a few solutions: for example, why not agree with the surveillance magistrate the temporary permission to stay home for semi-free prisoners who go back only to sleep in prison and could be vectors of contagion? Finally, I would like to put to the attention of the Government - I know that it is not up to you, Minister Bonafede, but I would like to give a voice to a request made to me by Senator Bonino - that in these complex hours the emergency coronavirus, as well as in prisons, risks producing critical effects even within the detention centres for return, as well as in reception centres for asylum seekers. It is necessary that the Government prepares also in these structures suitable garrisons to face the situation, to protect guests and operators. In particular, with regard to CPRs, the real problem is new entrances, which should be avoided because they could spread infection within the centres. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u14	Mr President, I thank the Minister. The Democratic Party Group expresses the most heartfelt solidarity, support and closeness to prison police officers, engaged in these days and hours in a difficult role; to the operators, who even in prison are trying to work to mitigate tensions; to the directors, who are faced with a very difficult task, often with limited tools. It is evident that the acts carried out in these days are serious and unjustifiable; the perpetrators of the devastations must be punished with great firmness. I say more, Minister: I think it must also be fully verified whether there has been a destabilising plan throughout the national territory to spread the revolts and identify who led this project. It's hard to think that in thirty prisons there was a revolt at the same time without a design, but I don't know what type, coordinated. On this, Minister, I would ask you to ask the judiciary to take a closer look. Having said that, sharing the Minister's statements and the fact that everyone has pointed out that there is no justification, something does not work and has not worked, if what we know has happened. And whoever has the responsibility of the Department's management has to account for what happened. That being said (and still not to justify), the situation of overpopulation, which is 140% compared to the possibilities of Italian prisons (a problem that we have already posed and which we have already discussed, Minister), makes everything more difficult in itself in such a situation. The coronavirus emergency highlights the problems even more. The tight spaces are more dangerous. We are sitting here in this way to ensure that the rule of staying more than a meter away from each other is respected, but it is difficult to do so in 10 square meters cells that host six prisoners. Again, I believe that it weighs on this matter the choice, which we share, to restrict access to talks to protect prisoners. I believe that, from this point of view, the decree-law did well to limit the conversations with relatives, predicting that they happen mainly by phone or Skype. The issue today, as you said, is better equipped prisons to secure these talks. Well the triage, as well as the introduction of the health rules that you have mentioned, the measures taken and the establishment of the task force that you have announced to address this issue. However, Minister, I believe that easing pressure within prisons also means tackling the issue of overpopulation, however present. Personally, I am opposed to all forms of indult and amnesty. Mr Casini is right: there must be no failure on the part of the State. We are, however, faced with experiences such as that of the Tribunale di Surveillance in Milan, which tells us that one can intervene by testing those who already leave to work, entrusting to the communities those who have pathologies that can be compromised by a coronary virus infection, thinking of putting under house arrest those who have only a few weeks in prison to serve. No one here wants to free anyone, let alone those who turned around. But there is a big problem. Here we do not divide between those who want to condemn the riots and those who do not want to do so. Here we split up on the solution. The solution is to address the problems of the prison system, solving them one by one. Facing the emergency with this attitude is the way for us to follow. The answer to go back, shut down everything and militarize the prison again by taking advantage of this opportunity is the wrong answer. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dear Minister, I promise you that I will not make any controversy, but we will also try to help you and - rest assured - I do not want to help you follow the advice of the League. Instead, I would like to help you to do the good of Italians and to satisfy the few simple requests that come from this wonderful community: sacred requests, such as the right to safety, health and tranquility. Minister, in an ordinary situation governing this extraordinary country can also be easy because, despite some wrong laws, the unpreparedness, superficiality and sometimes the protection, the Italians always manage to get away, to amaze everyone and to give proof of inventiveness and courage. Minister, here is the key word: courage and - I add - responsibility. Its problem is that what we are going through today is by no means an ordinary season and, therefore, every ordinary attitude, every usual negligence and every behavior experienced in ordinary administration are inadequate and insufficient today. Today it is not enough to pretend nothing, it is not enough to let, in the end, the others or the Italians alone think about it. Today we must decide and have courage. Do you, Minister, have the courage in this situation? I'm asking you because you don't look like a Minister of the Republic anymore. You have given up the burden of taking responsibility. His role doesn't just have privileges. Minister, what has been lacking, even when there has been talk of interceptions, is responsibility and courage, when, for example, there has been talk of closing the courtrooms. Why didn't you take responsibility for closing the courtrooms, for example by applying what everyone was asking for, namely the law on the suspension of working time? The League didn't ask him. The Presidents of the courts asked him, to whom you, after 22 March, will discharge the responsibility to decide, each for its own territorial competence, with the risk that imbalances will arise, makes the areas of the country. Especially today: why choose to watch the prisons that burn, the prisoners that escape, the prison police officers that are attacked and kidnapped? Why are you afraid, Minister? I understand if you don't want to listen to our advice and, frankly, I don't care, because that's not the point. However, how many times have you been told to intervene before, not just by us. Minister, the seven trade union acronyms, all together, say that, even earlier, they had eagerly requested your intervention for a firm and sure intercourse. None of the requests to the revolts have been met, so as to induce those who write to raise their tones and to communicate the interruption of union relations. This, Minister, is addressed to you. You didn't give any answers before. It's late now. We thank, as others have already done, all those, women and men, who work within prison structures. We also thank these trade union acronyms which, together, have joined together, overcoming the natural divisions that exist between each trade union acronym to deal with this problem. They highlighted a simple, fundamental and clear theme: you did not give answers before. The point is, the country needs someone to decide today. Do so, Minister, without fear, not even with fear of annoying his allies. There are few of us today because there is a health emergency going on. Do not turn it into an institutional emergency. We have riots in prisons and we need courage and clear decisions. A few questions. What are the measures, apart from those laid down in the DPCM, that have been indicated to the penitentiary institutions, Minister? We have not heard this today. Inmate transfers are arranged according to what precautions? What are the medical devices? How many and what funds to rebuild the destroyed institutions? Where are they? What is your response to these simple requests? You're a Minister of the Republic. He was elected to participate in the choices, to take responsibility, not to survive the problems. If you don't find the force, watch the devastated prisons, watch the videos of the inmates running away, look at the wounded bodies of our prison police officers, look at the tired but proud faces of the women and men who work in hospitals. Look at them. In those faces, Minister, you will find the courage to decide. Otherwise, if you don't find him, that courage, do what many today ask and resign. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u17	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u18	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Forza Italia, first of all - like everyone else, but perhaps even more than everyone else - expresses full and heartfelt solidarity with the prison police and all the staff, including the administrative and health department, the directors and all those who work in prisons. In recent hours, in prison facilities some have even been kidnapped, even among nurses. Minister, you have not given us a report on aggression and violence, which we have recorded in so many parts of Italy in these hours, but you have referred to a text that will send us. There is a staff that risks every day and deserves more attention. Let us remember when, in this parliamentary term, Forza Italia has repeatedly proposed, unheard of, amendments to equip prison police departments with tasers - we see in these hours how much would have been necessary - and to increase in a serious and organic way, not virtual and limited, staff and budget allocations. After these revolts we must respond with great firmness, certainly not with mass release, which someone, irresponsiblely, hypothesized. We also remember the support of the other police forces, which have been diverted from the riots even outside the prison, from primary duties, in which they are called in these hours, because they must support the prefects, in the control of the territory for the emergency health. Only now does some family members admit that the blockade of visits had been decided to protect the health of prisoners and not to sanction further afflictions, but this choice has been badly managed by you, Minister. Senator Pharaoh, you must be serious and challenge the responsibilities of the Minister, not those of the subordinates. If you do not have the courage to tell the Minister that you have to leave, it is useless for him to take it out on the officials. Let us certainly address the degradation of certain prison structures, which is a historical problem of the country, but there is no tolerance for these rebellions, which must be cut off with severity and, worse still, those of relatives or of so-called relatives or social centers, which have created roadblocks and attacks on police forces outside prisons. Consideration should also be given to deaths caused by the use of methadone and other medicinal products and on which no definitive data have been provided. There is a rule that is not properly applied in Italy, which allows drug addicts to go under house arrest in therapeutic communities. You want to legalize drugs and abolish communities and not design an alternative path to prison for those suffering the condition of drug addiction and that in a community, under house arrest, could find a very different condition. It is a law that can be applied, it exists, but very little is applied. Similarly, there is no doubt that there is a historical delay in the modernization of prison structures, as I have already said, which hinders compliance with Article 27 of the Constitution, a matter dear to Forza Italia, which, alongside the principles of security, does not forget, even at this moment, the fundamental principles of law. There are still enormous difficulties in applying and using alternative penalties, which could help to better manage the problems of crowding, but no discomfort, presumed or real, justifies aggression or devastation. There will be people who have undergone surgery, immunodepressed people and the judiciary could and should intervene, for these cases that represent exceptions, to be dealt with in the light of the current medical emergency, but no one does. It is useless to remember the gravity of what happened in some cities, in Foggia in particular. We want to express solidarity with the administration and citizens of that city: a murderer and exponents of the Gargano Mafia have escaped. It's ridiculous to blame some officials. Minister Bonafede, you have thought about killing the right in these months, erasing the prescription, and you have ignored, in order to do this battle, the prison situation and the state of the prison police. You are about right and security as your colleague Di Maio is about grammar. The sooner he leaves and the better: what happened once more certifies his inadequacy. His unawareness does not absolve her. Times of great emergency impose guides of great value. Leave its function before you facilitate other disasters. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Ruspandini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u19	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, Article 27 of the Constitution lays down the principles of re-education and re-socialisation of the deed and the key word of the 2018 legislative decrees was precisely responsibility, so prisoners must make a path of internalisation of the rules. The latest incidents in prisons are acts of violence and riots that can certainly only be blamed: they are an attack on the rule of law, so they must be punished firmly. Minister, you have had to deal with the atavic problems of overcrowding, inadequate structures, a shortage of human resources and the lack of technological tools since you took office. I can attest to this, because I am an operator and a prison manager who has had to face daily these problems for which you, as you have just installed, have shown a particular sensitivity: let us not forget the appropriations provided for both penitentiary building and human resources, for the implementation of the treatment figures and for a competition for directors (the last dates back to 1997). Today there is certainly an emergency in the emergency: there has been no violation of a right, as I have heard from several quarters; there has only been the need to balance the right to health with the other rights of prisoners; therefore, as well as in hospitals and facilities where there is a certain community and there are more people, visits have been limited. Also in this case, telephone interviews were authorized to a far greater extent than the one allowed and expressly provided for by the rules of the penitentiary, as well as the talks via Skype; prevention measures were immediately adopted with dedicated access to those who entered the institution. Of course, this is an emergency, which has as its objective the priority of protecting the prisoner, but also the community and the family members of the prisoners. These were the measures put in place. The prison police played a fundamental role, along with the directors and doctors who work within prison facilities, because they had to cope with this emergency situation and to them I certainly go all my closeness. The possibility of support from the other police forces, which are objectively forced on particularly heavy shifts, must also be examined, given the particular historical moment. On the other hand, we are not talking here about indult or generalized measures, but about the need to verify and speed up proceedings concerning persons who are eligible for measures involving atonement in other places. These are the measures to be put in place, precisely because of the need to safeguard the priority health protection of all Italians, including prisoners and those who work in prisons. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u21	I declare closed the debate on the information of the Minister of Justice, whom I thank for his willingness. I would remind you that at 11 a.m. the Conference of Leaders is convened in the Chamber. I suspend the session until 3 p.m., which will resume with the discussion of the report presented by the Government for the purpose of authorising the updating of the return plan towards the medium-term objective. (The sitting was suspended at 10.34 a.m. and resumed at 15.08 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u22	The Conference of the Leaders has unanimously decided to consider as a priority for next week the examination in the Commission of the decree-law on the emergency of the coronavirus, also in view of the possibility of further regulatory interventions and the ongoing dialogue between the majority, the oppositions and the Government. In this connection, it was agreed to ask the President of the Commission to postpone the deadline for tabling amendments to the measure until Friday 20 March at 12 noon. The amendments to the Assembly should therefore be tabled at 1 p.m. on Friday 20. With the agreement of the Government it has also been established to extend to 16 April the deadline for the expression of opinions on the acts of the Government which expire on 2 May and, consequently, those with successive deadlines. The Assembly will meet again on Wednesday 25 March at 2 p.m. for communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 26 and 27 March 2020. The arrangements for holding the debate will be laid down by the Conference of Leaders, convened on Wednesday 18 March at 4.30 p.m. On this occasion it will also be established the possible inclusion of votes for the election of members of the Agcom and Privacy Authorities, on the agenda of 25 March, provided for in agreement with the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u23	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until March 25, 2020: [[Wednesday 25 March h. 14 - Communications by the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the European Council of 26 and 27 March 2020]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u24	The next item is the debate on document LVII-a, No 1. I recall that the resolution by which each House authorizes the use of debt in order to deal with extraordinary events is adopted by an absolute majority of the respective members. According to the Conference of Leaders, following the intervention of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government, the explanations of vote will be taken directly. The rapporteur, Senator Gallicchio, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, this report, presented to Parliament on 5 March 2020 and updated today, illustrates the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective for public finance, in relation to the interventions that the Government intends to take to address the epidemiological emergency from COVID-19. The report to Parliament refers to the request for an update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective, already authorised with the 2019 Parliament report attached to NADEF 2019. The request is aimed at the adoption of measures of an extraordinary and urgent nature, which allow to meet the important health and socio-economic needs arising from the epidemiological emergency COVID-19. In this respect, it is recalled that NADEF 2019 and its parliamentary resolutions indicated in terms of GDP the following policy values of the net debt balance: 2.2% in 2020, 1.8% in 2021 and 1.4% in 2022. The above changes in relation to NADEF are discounted in the net debt estimates reported in the technical-illustrious note 2020, which illustrates the following developments in the balance following the approval of the Budget Act 2020 and the so-called Tax Decree No 124 of 2019. In particular, in 2019 the general government net debt, measured in relation to GDP, is shown to be less than 1.6%, a reduction of 0.6% compared to 2018, compared to 2.2% foreseen in the technical-illustrious note 2020. The letters sent by the Government to the European Commission on 5 and 10 March 2020, in their preliminary report on the evolution of the health emergency and the measures already taken, point out that the Government has decided on a package of economic support measures, to which additional appropriations will be added for the National Health Service, Civil Protection and Security Forces. Initially, the package provided for 7.5 billion appropriations, corresponding to €6.35 billion in debt, but the further worsening of the situation made it necessary to bring about integration to demand. Therefore, after consulting the European Commission, the integrated request for authorisation to use debt increased by an additional EUR 13.75 billion, or about 0.8 percentage points, to be used during 2020 in relation to the further intensification and spread of the outbreak by COVID-19. In view of the previous request for authorisation, therefore, the planned net debt target could increase to EUR 20 billion, corresponding to approximately 1.1 percentage points of GDP, in order to have the availability of additional resources to ensure the financing of any further initiatives that would become necessary as soon as possible and as a matter of urgency, within a desired coordinated action at European level. The same letter points out that this deficit estimate could change during the presentation of the Stability Programme for Italy, included in the DEF 2020, citing in this respect a number of factors including the improvement recorded in 2019, but also the unpredictability of the impact on the economic and public finance framework of the current emergency. The letter highlights the difficulty of predicting, at present, the net effect of all the factors indicated, while hoping that the new estimate may not deviate from the original one. It is recalled that, according to Article 1 of the Budget Act 2020, the maximum levels of the net balance to be financed for the current year were indicated at 79.5 billion in terms of competence and 129 billion in terms of cash. Given the total amount for which authorisation is requested to the Chambers, the net balance to be financed from the State budget will be able to increase up to EUR 104.5 billion in 2020, in terms of competence, and to EUR 150 billion in cash with an increase in appropriations up to a total of EUR 25 billion, both in terms of cash and in terms of competence. The report reports on the update of the return plan towards the medium-term objective and a series of extraordinary initiatives deemed necessary to address immediately the health and socio-economic consequences of the epidemiological emergency from COVID-19. The package of measures that the Government intends to take consists in a summary increase in resources for the public health system, the civil protection system and the law enforcement forces to ensure the provision of tools and means to assist people affected by the disease and to prevent and mitigate the risk of infection; to ensure further resources to counter social and economic hardships resulting from the slowdown and in some cases to the suspension of economic activity through income support, the safeguarding of employment, the strengthening of social shock absorbers, the strengthening of parental leave, the support of working parents, as well as the support of the companies concerned in order to prevent the liquidity crisis and avoid their failures. These measures seem absolutely necessary, urgent and improcrastinable; I also add that they are just and fully acceptable. In its letter of 5 March to the European Commission, the Government states that it will ask Parliament and the European Commission to consider these resources as higher one-off costs, as such not recurrent in the years after 2020, when the epidemic crisis and its economic consequences have been overcome. These charges should therefore not be considered for the purposes of calculating the structural budget balance, calculated by subtracting the effects of the economic cycle and those of one-off measures from the nominal balance, the adjustment path of which therefore remains unchanged compared to that outlined in NADEF 2019 and in the 2020 Budgetary Plan Paper, where an objective of - 1.4% of GDP in 2020 was set, - 1.2% in 2021 and -1 percent in 2022. The value for 2020 leads to a deterioration in the structural budget balance of around 0.1 percentage points of GDP compared to the previous year. In its letter of reply, the European Commission confirms that the one-off public expenditure measures taken in relation to the current epidemiological emergency are to be considered excluded by definition from the calculation of the structural budget balance and from the assessment of compliance with the existing budgetary rules. The Commission also points out that the framework of budgetary rules contains the elements of flexibility necessary to address exceptional events outside the control of the Government, while maintaining the conditions of sustainability of public finances. Before I come to the conclusion, I would like to point out that the Commission will make a preliminary assessment of the requests for flexibility, based on the flexibility clause for exceptional events, at the time of the submission of the stability programmes 2020. On that occasion, account will be taken of the need to take urgent measures to safeguard the well-being of citizens and to mitigate the negative effects on the economic growth of the epidemiological emergency. Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after this purely technical report - which is necessarily cold, because it only speaks of numbers - let me say two veiled words of sadness, spoken with my heart. I wish to express my condolences to all those who have lost their loved ones and to show immense thanks to all those who, day and night, are struggling, even at the risk of their own health, to avoid other deaths. Thanks to all these heroes: thanks to doctors, nurses, researchers and many other healthcare professionals. Thanks also to the Civil Protection and to all the forces of public order that are now continuously engaged in this difficult work of containment of the spread of the virus, which is carried out in the obligation to make necessarily respect a limitation to that freedom that belongs to democracy. In these dramatic days the Italian people are in difficulty, but they are showing great determination and generosity. We all have as Parliament, as a country, a difficult time to face, I would say dramatic, both health and economic, but we also have the opportunity to react together, as we are doing, in a scenario of political cohesion to show the world that a small country, Italy, can resist and defeat such a great crisis. Let's do this battle together and show the way and hope to the whole world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u26	I call the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u27	Mr President, Senators, since 21 February, the Coronavirus epidemic has spread to our country. The Government intervened immediately to protect the health of citizens, with the priority objective of halting the spread of the virus and enhancing the ability to respond to the health system. I too wish to express my condolences for the victims of this crime to their loved ones and to thank the doctors, nurses, researchers and all those who, in the present tragic circumstances, are engaged in a heroic effort to ensure that all the necessary care is taken. The scrupulous adoption of virus containment measures, defined on the basis of the indications of the Technical and Scientific Committee, is necessary to protect the health of citizens and territorial communities and also to reduce over time the economic and social impact of the epidemic on our country. All resources must be mobilised to ensure that the epidemic is tackled with the necessary staff, tools and resources. We must make every effort to support the health system, civil protection and law enforcement, which are doing extraordinary work in these hours to assist people affected by the disease, prevention, with the aim of mitigation and containment of the epidemic. At the same time, all measures must be taken promptly to address the economic impact of this emergency on the country, workers, families and businesses. For this reason, the Government today asks Parliament to authorise a deviation from the public finance objectives defined in the last Update Note of the Economic and Financial Document. A deviation of up to EUR 20 billion, equal to 1.1 percent of GDP, in terms of net debt. This deviation corresponds to some 25 billion more budgetary appropriations by competence and by cash. With the first report sent to Parliament on 5 March, the government had planned a budget of some 7.5 billion, corresponding to a debt of 6.35 billion, equal to about 0.3 percentage points of GDP. As the crisis deepens, we have decided to approve an integration of the report, which provides for the possibility of a further allocation of resources of 13.65 billion in debt and 17.5 billion in net balance to be financed. This increase has become necessary in the light of the new restrictive measures taken in the first place to strengthen the interventions which will be contained in the decree-law which the Council of Ministers will probably approve already next Friday. In addition, we have considered it appropriate to ensure from now on that additional resources are available to finance subsequent interventions which would be necessary on the basis of the evolution of the emergency and the coordinated measures that we will take at European level. In this regard, it is good to note that the conclusions of the President of the European Council, after the videoconference of Heads of State and Government of yesterday's 27 Member States, show that Europe is ready to do everything necessary to deal with this unprecedented crisis. Never before, when our country is hit more than any other by a common and planetary challenge, do we realize how much Europe's unity is a precious and indispensable resource. This is why we will work to ensure the highest degree of coordination and the adequate level of ambition of common European interventions in the fight against the epidemic and support for the economy, common interventions that can also alleviate the financial impact on the budgets of individual countries. The decree-law in preparation, which will be adopted in the week, will provide for measures of approximately 12 billion. I would like to thank the economic and social forces, the parties of majority and opposition, the territorial autonomy for the constructive confrontation with the Government, which has helped to define the measures in the process of finalization. We will continue the confrontation in the next few hours, in the conviction that, even in the distinction of roles, at a time like this, we must pursue the greatest unity and cohesion of the country. The main thrust of the measure will be four. Firstly, we will guarantee the resources to deal with the civil protection emergency. All citizens are entitled to care and care. I remember that, among the first interventions adopted, the Government has arranged the increase of the funds available to Civil Protection for about one billion, half of which have already been destined for the purchase of the indispensable medical devices: masks, respiratory and any other equipment. The simplification of the procedures for the purchase of medical personal protective equipment has enabled Consip to purchase with great timeliness more than 5,000 assisted ventilation systems and the other materials indispensable for the operation of the fans. The first machines are in delivery during these hours and the entire lot will be delivered gradually on the basis of health programming. The decree-law of 9 March established the extraordinary recruitment, which will concern medical and nursing staff and, where necessary, will also be addressed to resident doctors, graduates qualified to practice the medical profession and qualified doctors without Italian citizenship. Medical and nursing staff will be increased with hundreds of military personnel units. In addition, the INAIL Human Resources Medical and Nursing Units will be increased. In order to continue to ensure the normal performance of the care activities of doctors and pediatricians, the establishment of special units of care continuity has been arranged. The territorial assistance network will also be strengthened to increase the number of beds in intensive care by 50% at regional level and the number of beds in pneumology and infectious diseases by 100%. Added to this will be the strengthening of military health structures. The second axis concerns work. The goal is that no one loses their jobs because of the coronavirus. For this reason, we will make an extraordinary increase in the resources available for the supplementary fund by way of derogation and those of the wage integration fund to ensure the use of this instrument throughout the country and for all sectors of production, including activities with less than five employees. We will also intervene to ensure income support for workers not covered by the Integration Fund by way of derogation such as seasonal (including tourism), self-employed (including entertainment workers) and fixed-term workers. These measures are directed towards income protection and, at the same time, they call on companies, together with trade unions, to take action to ensure full health security for all workers. Finally, we will help parents who work and find themselves in difficulty due to the necessary closure of schools throughout the country by strengthening parental leave and contributing to babysitting expenses. The third axis of action will be to ensure liquidity. We will avoid temporary liquidity problems, due to this extraordinary situation, jeopardising the economic and financial soundness of households and businesses. Firstly, the central guarantee fund to support small and medium-sized enterprises will be further strengthened: the fund will be extended with free access throughout the country; the guarantees provided will be extended and the guarantee percentages will be increased. We also expect to make it easier to suspend loans for the first home, but it will also make it possible to suspend the payment of loans and bank loans by extending their duration through the intervention of partial state guarantees. It will therefore be ensured that companies can continue to benefit from the credit openings granted but not yet used. To these measures - which we hope will also be supported by appropriate interventions by the European Central Bank - are added the resources made available by Cassa Depositi e Prestiti and by Servizi Assicurazioni del Commercio Estero (SACE) to support companies that have been increased from 1 billion to 7 billion. The fourth axis of intervention will concern the tax: on the one hand, we plan to postpone a series of obligations in order to meet the objective difficulties of taxpayers and tax operators; on the other hand, in order to ensure adequate support to companies and self-employed workers affected by the effects of the health emergency with a reduction in the level of turnover activity and consequent impact on liquidity, measures to suspend tax and contribution payments may be introduced also in anticipation of a partial refreshment future. Alongside these main axes of intervention, the Government is then committed to accelerating and unlocking the investments already planned and financed also by reviewing the administrative procedures. In order to assess the economic consequences of the epidemic and its preventive measures, scientific forecasts based on day-to-day observation of health data will be required. The duration of the crisis in its economic dimension will also depend on the evolution of the epidemic in other countries. The degree of uncertainty is very high and, therefore, we will have to reason in terms of scenarios preparing for the most unfavourable ones, but working to achieve the most favourable ones. From the point of view of the Italian economy, the scale of the crisis will be determined by the effects of three different phases. The first was that of the outbreak in China and its direct impact on trade in Italy - China and the indirect impact on world trade. The impact of the interruption of certain value chains and the expected decline in the influx of Eastern tourists in Italy should be taken into account. The second phase is the dramatic one in progress, which sees the spread of the epidemic in Italy. It is reasonable to believe that the fall of the product will last at least a couple of months, regardless of the interventions put in place. If we succeed in achieving effective control of the epidemic in the next few weeks, we will come closer to the third phase, that of returning to normal, the times of which will depend, however, also on the spread of the epidemic at international level. It is therefore premature for me to indicate a specific forecast today. I would like it to be clear, however, that we do not keep our heads in the sand. We are taking into account all the scenarios, and at the DEF we will formulate a new, balanced and realistic macroeconomic framework. We are facing a challenge that until recently we did not see on the horizon. The commitment that the whole country is making is remarkable and has no precedent in republican history. The Commission, in constant dialogue with all political forces, levels of government, European institutions, social partners and industry experts, is acting with promptness and resolution, studying and implementing solutions that are often unpublished. Italian public finance is sustainable, as demonstrated by the best result recorded at final 2019. According to data released by Istat, the net debt of the year just passed has fallen to 1.6% of GDP, the lowest value of the last twelve years, less than more than half a percentage of both the figure of 2018, and the forecasts drawn up in October for the Draft Budget Document (DPB). The increase in the deficit for which the Government requests authorisation - and which I trust will be approved by a large majority - is the result of the extraordinary situation we are experiencing, and does not jeopardise the long-term sustainability of our public finances. When this phase is behind us, it will resume the adjustment path. In recent days I have abstained from making predictions about the future economic development of the country, and I have not done so today because, as I said, until we have the certainty that the containment policies are giving results, it would not be serious to do them. But I want to say here something that many of you have already heard: the most effective economic response to the current emergency is to defeat the epidemic together and stop its spread. That is the absolute priority. The epidemic has hit us first in Europe and, to date, in a harder way than in other countries. But if we continue to work as we are, we will get out of it first and with a stronger and more united country. The country, despite the impact of the health emergency and the necessary restrictive measures put in place, is solid. And it is precisely in the most difficult moments that Italians can show their extraordinary civil virtues and their strength. If we are united and will all work together with commitment, starting with the behaviors that each of us has every day, I am sure that we will also overcome this dramatic challenge. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u28	I note that the following motions for resolutions have been tabled: No 1 (text 2), Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger, No 2, Senator Romeo, and No 3, Senator Bernini and other senators, who were subsequently withdrawn. The texts have already been distributed. I would ask the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u29	Mr President, the Government is in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), first signed by Senator Perilli. Text 2 also collects and shares proposals made by the Opposition Groups. I call for the withdrawal of the remaining motion for a resolution No 2. I would like to take this opportunity to thank the majority and opposition groups for the sense of responsibility, the constructive spirit and national solidarity with which the debate on this important step has been addressed, which we ask Parliament to do in the general interest of our country.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u30	We shall then proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u33	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament is living a day that we will hardly forget, one of those days that makes the history of the country. We are here in small numbers, with our semi-desert offices, in an empty city, to put the institutions in a position to face the most serious crisis in Republican Italy. It is an event that marks a watershed in our lives and in those of our fellow citizens, because when the emergency is over we will no longer be the same people as before. Today we are voting for a change in the budget of EUR 25 billion, in the hope that these resources will be adequate to deal with a situation that is still unclear because of its recession. That's what I'm saying. No business or commercial activity will have to be closed; no one will have to lose their jobs and - above all - no citizens will have to be asked for further sacrifices. For this reason, a plan must be put in place that shakes the foundations of the Italian economy, a project that in the immediate absence of a liquidity crisis for companies, businesses, professionals, tourism and its induced, as well as all those sectors already hard hit in the emerging context. We therefore need the freezing of loans and payments throughout the country, the immediate unblocking of shipyards in order to boost the economy, a new economic support plan for families and businesses, the extension of applications for unemployment benefit, a radical work of bureaucratic simplification (starting with the requirements for aid applications) and detailed attention to companies that no longer export their products. The European Union is playing its credibility and destiny on this. The news of the EUR 25 billion is a good start, but Europe must above all understand that this is an opportunity to rethink itself, rewrite its rules and thus regain the confidence of the citizens of the Member States. For this reason, maximum political and institutional unity is essential. (Following Mr Steger) Apart from some too much controversy, we are appreciating the spirit that moves all political forces at the moment, both by majority and by opposition: we must all help the Government to make the right choices on the security of citizens and to ensure that no economic category is forgotten. The rules of the other night, with restrictions on the movement of persons, have no precedent in times of peace. On this too, we must all feel at the forefront of explaining to citizens that this is the time for individual responsibility. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going through a very difficult crisis, but in so many cultures the word crisis also means an opportunity to change and improve. I would like this aspect not to be underestimated, for example with regard to the way in which Italy has understood the absolute value of the Universal Health Service and the school in spelling out the lives of our children, as well as that of research, which has the face and the name of the researchers of the Spallanzani Institute. I am also thinking of the new recruitment of doctors and paramedics, who are the largest injection of fresh forces into a health system that was serving a chronic shortage of personnel. Smart working for employees is an opportunity for businesses and public administration to rethink their organisational models and facilitate the reconciliation between living and working times. In short, ladies and gentlemen, let us really make sure that Italy can come out of this affair as a stronger, more modern and more aware country of its own abilities. I am referring to the testimony of a great politician we have heard in recent days in the media and I think it is appropriate. Many years ago Aldo Moro addressed his party assembly with these words: If it were possible to say let's skip this time and go straight to tomorrow, I think we would all agree to do so. But - dear friends - it is not possible. Today we have to live. Today is our responsibility. It's about being brave and confident at the same time. It is a matter of living the time that we are given to live with all its difficulties. I believe that these words represent well the spirit of the time we are living. I therefore reiterate the Group's support for the Autonomies and our maximum collaboration with the Government to help the country get out of this dramatic and difficult moment. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u34	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u36	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Minister for Economic Affairs, Minister for Agriculture, ladies and gentlemen, Italy Viva says yes to the exceptional measures that the Minister for Economic Affairs has just proposed, because in exceptional times the answer can only be unanimous. All with the government, ladies and gentlemen. We all play with the same shirt. And we entrust to you, Minister, the responsibility for this choice. I can testify that few people like Roberto Gualtieri, in this House and outside, have a profound sensitivity to the issues of European values, respect for European standards and European rules. It is almost a contrappasso that it is up to him to ask for the widest deviation. But we know, together with Mr Gualtieri, that we are not asking Europe for money. We're asking our kids for money because we're doing more debt. It's right to do that right now, but let's spend this money well and spend it the way it takes to deal with an incredible emergency. It is no more than an influence, as many have said. It's not even an epidemic. It's a pandemic. It is an incredible story, epochal in some respects, that will touch all countries. From here, from the classrooms of the Italian Parliament, we tell our French, German and Spanish friends that what we are living today they will live in a week; that they cannot put their heads under the sand; that they cannot hide the dust under the carpet, because those who follow the numbers - and God knows how important it is to follow the numbers and not the populistic sentiments - those who follow the numbers know that what is happening in other countries is exactly what was happening eight, nine days ago in Italy. It is useless, Spanish friends, to close flights with Italy. You have to close schools in Spain. The measures we have taken, perhaps even a little late, must be taken throughout Europe. The red zone doesn't go from Aosta to Ragusa. The red zone touches the whole of Europe, likes it or doesn't like it. And we say this not because we are ill-common, half-joyed, but because we invite our European brothers and sisters not to make the mistakes we have made. Because, it's fair to say, we've made mistakes. We too thought that it was enough to block direct flights with China to solve the problem. It wasn't like that. Today, we are in the presence of exceptional measures from a health point of view. We took them and we have to take them. It will also be up to European friends to do the same until the tsunami arrives in the United States. These exceptional measures, which the Government has taken, are firmly at your side, Ministers. We appreciated the enlargement of the red zone to the whole of Italy. I think we have to get used to giving ourselves time, because these measures we have taken in the last few days will see their effects in seven to ten days. I think we need some common sense and rigor. We cannot make a decree a day, because if we make a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers a day we do not give a sign of institutional solidity: we give a sign of schizophrenia. Let's give it a line, let's decide it together and let's all carry it forward without constantly playing the controversy. From this point of view, however, we will appreciate the choice that the Government will make, having suggested, in a spirit of humility and collaboration, that an extraordinary commissioner for the emergency be indicated and identified. Experience has shown that in these cases the Special Commissioner works. The President-in-Office said it was not an earthquake. I agree with him: it is worse, also because the crater is the whole country, also because the objective data that we have at this stage is a figure of exponential growth of the territories involved. The important thing is that, whatever the decision, we will respect it; that there is, however, a mode of communication that is an institutional mode of communication, not a reality show. Because if it is said that the regions are closed, you do not pass the veils to the newspapers before. Because if this happens, one of the most qualifying acts in the history of this emergency will be frustrated. I think, Minister, that the management of public order should be strengthened, starting with prisons. It is not an easy season in which whole pieces of the country are closed, with the greatest limitation to constitutional freedoms since the Second World War, just, due and sacrosanct. Let us strengthen the situation of public order and do not allow anyone to pretend anything in front of 12 deaths in Italian prisons: that someone - I am referring to top management - takes responsibility and resigns today, for what happened! On economic measures, Mr Gualtieri, we are totally with you. On that side of the table there are people, you and Minister Bellanova, who know what the economic bet means: liquidity, loans for families, for all, loans - not only for those under 30,000 euros - VAT matches, which otherwise run the risk of being cancelled and hidden, Cassa Integrazione. Mr Minister, everything you have said can be seen with conviction at your side: we will be so in the next few days and we will be with our heads high. Mr President, let me conclude with a thought which goes beyond the health aspect and the economic aspect. In Italy there is no more No Vax. There is no one left, who, in this country, contests what the virology, science and medicine say. I believe that this is due not to one political force or another, but to the extraordinary self-denial and dedication of researchers and researchers, nurses and nurses, doctors and doctors, of those who put science in front of superstition. I think this is an important fact, because in the coming months we will see a new race to the moon all over the world: it will be a race to cure, perhaps closer than you think, and a race to the vaccine, still not so close, because however, as authoritative colleagues know, it requires moments of testing that are unsurpassed. What is certain, however, is that our country proves to be the home of science, the place where human fatigue, personal and beautiful of those nurses, who publish the photos we have seen in these days, makes us proud to be Italian: anything but superstitions No Vax! Now is the time to tighten your teeth, injecting liquidity into the system and saying, however, that there are values to which we do not give up. We can lock ourselves in, for a few days, for a few weeks, but we can't give up being ourselves, being human and being Italian. I got an e-mail, actually a letter from a lady, saying, I'm worried, because I'm old. If you take my coronavirus, from what I read, I may not be the one chosen to be put into intensive care and maybe - adds with a thread of concussion my funeral won't be even a funeral, because they suspended those too. He accidentally passed on to many people the message that the life of an elder is worth less than the life of a young person. It is clear that all of us, if we had to choose, would give our lives for our children and that is what makes us human and makes us people: there is no doubt. What we must do, however, as a community of women and men, as senators and senators, is to remind ourselves, first of all, that giving the message that an elder's life is worth less is profoundly wrong. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We are a great country, because we have the strength, intelligence and wisdom to recognize in the elderly the rock of our lives. So, dear Minister Gualtieri, dear Minister Bellanova, Lords of the Government, we are at your side. Let us not forget that in this challenge there is not only the economic and health challenge of Italy, there is the challenge to return to the country the taste, beauty, honor and dignity of being a country that defends its values. If the other countries in Europe have not understood it, they know that in the next few hours it will be up to them too and we will be at their side, because from this emergency health, economic and values all come out together. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u39	Mr Urso (FdI). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start from the last consideration of Senator Renzi and not by chance, where he referred to the elderly and the values of the person, the individuals who are at the foundation of our civilization. I believe that to what the Minister said earlier and which we share, namely that no one must lose his job, it must be added, on the contrary, that no Italian must be refused the best health care. This is our first challenge, which we must face together. That the moment is important, even exceptional and extraordinary, some women have said it before and that the challenge is the most serious one that Republican Italy has to face says the image of this House in which in a few by choice we all represent; that of the city of Rome, today particularly deserted; says the fact that for the first time in this legislature - and probably for many years now - we will all speak with conviction together in a way in favour of this measure, which the Government has finally, I would say, modified. We take note of the fact that our indications have finally been accepted: the measure that we decide to approve today, with a resolution that allows the government to go into deficit for a figure of 20 billion euros and to put on the field at least 25 in order to face this first phase of the emergency, I believe it constitutes a qualitative leap also in the attitude of the Government, that until yesterday had heard and received the oppositions, but did not seem to receive the indications. Today, however, he has done so: we acknowledge this with responsibility and for this reason we shall vote together on the same resolution. Today Italy is finally united. It is united in dealing with the health and economic emergency and, in this regard, we are waiting for what has been announced by the Minister for Economic Affairs in this House to be reflected in the measures and we hope that this pressure will be brought to an end day by day: we already have five decrees; but I believe that, as far as administrative measures are concerned, one and more have been implemented every day. There is a need for clarity, so we ask that the measures be brought together and that we be confronted in the next few days with a single measure which incorporates what we and you have said and the considerations made in this House, in order to really give the country a sign of clarity and unity, all the more necessary. But it's not enough. In our opinion, this unity of the country must be clearly manifested also in Europe, because we fear that Europe has not yet understood well, as unfortunately is evidenced by the measures, even restrictive, taken by some European nations, which even appear hostile to Italy; the same is evident by the fact that the ordinary European administration continues, as if we were not at an extraordinary stage. Europe must understand and the Government together with Parliament, that is, united Italy, must make it understand that there is a need for a qualitative leap and a revolution in the European paradigm, starting with the ongoing negotiations on the reform of the ESM and the banking union and on the multiannual budget plan. The European Union - if we want to make it clear and if it wants to understand what it is facing - must suspend measures which are clearly inadequate compared to what is happening in Europe at this time, as the European stock exchanges also show and take the time to reform the concept of our Europe from the foundations, which must really become a Europe of solidarity and which points and bets on investment and therefore on development. We call for the same qualitative leap that the Government has made today, by changing its proposal to Parliament and by accepting the indication of oppositions, to do so in its behaviour in Europe, with great clarity. We are convinced that it will be heard by Europe, because it can happen - many people expected it in this House too - that what our country is suffering today will also be a problem for other European countries. The second thing we ask is to appoint an extraordinary commissioner with powers of order, as was done even in less dramatic, even if always serious, events of our country. And this without having any retro-thought (and we hope that the government does not have it). We do not ask for an extraordinary commissioner because we are calling for a government commissioner: this is not the time. We call for an extraordinary commissioner to be able to better explain and to the full what is necessary, with clarity of intent and communication to the country, at such a difficult time, I would say dramatic. We believe that this further step can help us to take the necessary measures together to deal with the serious crisis. I say this with conviction: we must not, you must not chase the virus, but together we must fight it in the foundations, so also consider our other proposal to close for a few days the productive activities in this country, except those necessary, in order to be better able, then, to react to the crisis, all together, rather than doing it from area to area, from sector to sector, as if we were following the problem instead of fighting it to the bottom. These additional measures which we are asking of you, of course in the measures to be taken in the next few hours, can and must lead us to the united climate that everyone in this House is demanding and that I believe, with conviction, that they are primarily claiming those who are at the forefront of fighting this crisis: doctors, researchers and, of course, security workers. We must be with them and make them feel that an entire country is supportive of them. In conclusion, there are also the positive aspects, if we want, or in any case the opportunities that can arise from them. We ourselves had already said in the first speeches in this House that the country finally reconciles itself with science after a few decades: finally we will all be aware that we need to immunize ourselves. Last year, just 40% of Italians vaccinated against influenza. I hope that from next year we will all vaccinate, to become a flock, that is, a people. The second positive consequence is that everyone finally asks for more state. There's a re-evaluation of the state, that is, the nation, in this country. The State that can protect the Italians; the State that can represent the Italians; the State and therefore the nation in which all Italians recognize themselves. We must, and I conclude, take the third step and ask the whole of Europe to do the same. We have been there, we have become a nation again; we need Europe to be there too and we need to think of it as a nation. In the next few hours we will know whether this appeal will be collected and we, the Government of Europe, will take action on it. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u42	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, certainly in republican history our country has never experienced such an emerging and dramatic situation and I believe that all citizens are fully aware of it. At this moment, our task is not only to fully assume all our responsibilities, but, in doing so, to give us a message. In this sense, even the act that we will do in a few minutes, that is the vote of the resolution to authorize the Government to go into deficit, is an important signal that we must give the country: a sign of unity, with which we also tell all citizens that no one will be left alone. There is responsibility for important resources: the Government has made an effort that we all appreciate to reach up to 25 billion and then we will assess together the additional needs. It is an important signal to say that we are here and it is significant that we do it together, even with the opposition, to say that no one will be left alone. This is the most important message that we must send from this House. No one will be left alone: those who risk losing their jobs, the tourism sector, industry, productive activities, families, young people and the elderly. This is the strong message that must come out of all the institutions at this time. We are facing a difficult crisis; perhaps there have been mistakes, for goodness sake, but what the Government and each of us has faced has been an emergency, a continuous change, because at first there have been different opinions and assessments among experts, among scientists - as you know - among them. Therefore, once again we have been faced with a situation that is unfortunately constantly changing. This does not mean that we did not have to correct mistakes; perhaps we will have to ensure that there is very strong coordination, that communications are clear and precise, that decisions are absolutely rapid. However - I mean not to defend someone - we have found ourselves and continue to face a very complicated and evolving situation. Right now, we're doing our part and we're gonna have to do it again, but Senator Steger was right when he first said that after this crisis we're not gonna be the same and we don't have to forget it. We must not forget as individual senators, as political forces, as institutions what has happened these days. We must not forget how crucial and important the public health service is; we must continue to strengthen it, not only now in an emergency, when we must, even more so, put in place all the strengthening operations, some of which have been announced earlier by the Minister. We must remember - this was one of the important elements for our country and it is crucial at this moment - that the market does not do alone. [[Applause from Senator Di Marzio]] It is clear that this applies to health but also to other areas. This time, as is probably the case in times of crisis, we need a strong commitment from the State, because the citizens are asking for this. It will not be the market that will solve this crisis. This crisis is not like that of 2008, when we knew where it originated and we also knew what measures were to be put in place. Today we are faced with a completely different scenario. That is why I say not only that we will come out of it several times, but also that we must not forget the experience of these days. We must therefore strengthen even more all the elements that will ensure that we will be able to overcome this crisis and to face permanently a great capacity for recovery of our country. We were the first in Europe, and then we have to say something strongly to Europe, and today we assume this responsibility: if the government takes it, if the majority forces take it and if the opposition forces take it, authorizing the government to do so and this deficit. Europe too must not forget, but now it must act. We cannot manage a crisis like this with the rigorist paradigms, without questioning the Stability Pact, which, even in the best years, has created many problems for our country and beyond. Europe must do its part fully and put in place a great plan to deal with the emergency. A Nobel laureate for the economy such as Stiglitz today paradoxically says that it is not possible to die because we must respect the Stability Pact. This awareness is now beginning to exist in Europe, because the emergency is also coming to other countries. We can make all the containment efforts, and this is the priority for us right now, but we all know that, even if we hold it in our country, if Europe and the other countries do not lie in the field equally harsh and rigid measures and if there is no great effort on the part of the whole of Europe and the European institutions, we risk seeing what we have contained in our country go back to the window. That is why it is essential for Europe to know that Italy is united, that this country is united, that Parliament is united in assuming its responsibilities and asking Europe to take on its responsibilities with force, with a unanimous vote and voice. Of course, Europe does not have health skills, but it has the skills to put in place a great plan, otherwise from this crisis, which will not only affect our country, we will risk getting out of it with many difficulties. On behalf of all the senators, on behalf of LEU and the Joint Group, we thank all those who have been in the field during these hours, these days and these weeks; I am referring to doctors, nurses, civil protection personnel and to all citizens who are realizing and accepting, while taking on the responsibility, sacrifices and difficult situations of these moments. We have to be strong. As many have said, Italy can find this strength within itself, even in the most difficult moments as happened in other moments of our republican history, which certainly were not dramatic like this. It is necessary to be strong, courageous and to react in order to be able to face to the full the challenge that is before us, to overcome the emergency, to be close to all the citizens and citizens of this country and to say - this is the meaning of today's vote - that we are united, that finally this country is united and that together we can do it. We are still facing difficult moments, but we are fighting to react and to ensure that Italy can overcome this difficult moment. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S, PD and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u43	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u44	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u45	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, authoritative colleagues, authoritative representatives of the Government, appear rhetorical, but we cannot fail to do so: thanks and encouragement are due, on the part of all of us, to medical staff, nursing staff, health personnel, law enforcement, volunteers and all those involved in this emergency today. Thanksgiving and gratitude no doubt, but also commitment and support. The sacrifice of those who are currently working 110 percent of their possibilities and abilities deserves the formality of thanksgiving on behalf of the whole country. Today is the moment of individual responsibility, of every Italian, responsibility to which we are appealing with great force. Each of us must know that with our individual behavior and our daily actions determines the future of the country and the times of the solution of this national emergency. Each of us must be aware of this and must know, at the moment when he decides his own action or the action of a family member, that what he is doing is something that goes beyond an individual choice. The good of the national community is at stake. Collective responsibility, I am not individual, sense of the state and value of the national community: that is what the government is doing, that is what Parliament is doing and that is what all political forces are doing, demonstrating maturity, seriousness and responsibility. At last we have reached an important vote, the one that will allow an incisive action and I hope final in order to eradicate this health misfortune, but also that incisive and decisive action in order to revive our country and to safeguard our economic fabric. Today there is no Marcucci, there is no Perilli, there is no Senator De Petris, there is no Senator Romeo or Salvini, there is no Senator Renzi; there are all of us who together have decided to vote on an ambitious, responsible and courageous document that the Government presents to us and we do so with a resolution that we have signed by majority, but that all the parties represented in this House have decided to support. The Government has been courageous and has had a strong, decisive, attentive, precise and determined confrontation with Europe and is simply doing what we wanted to do: to intervene on the issues that the Minister has explained to us, therefore obviously in the emergency health, to strengthen it in terms of necessary machinery, garrisons, presence, recruitment and prevention policies and to do so immediately with the necessary economic and financial energy and availability. So I cannot avoid a warm embrace from all of us to the family members of the many, too many, hundreds of people who have died in this disaster and their age is not important. Every person has a history, has a life, a family and relationships. We must take account of this, when we listen, too coldly, to the numbers that are communicated to us at 6 p.m. every day. This is a time from which, however, we must start again and we must do so thanks to the measure that we are approving today. The government must have at heart the overcoming of the emergency and it would be wrong to hasten economic interventions, because the priority is to overcome this state of affairs in Italy, in Europe and in the world. I hope that the other European countries and the other countries of the world may learn from our mistakes, but above all learn from our actions. We have been timely, we have decided to take action, the Government has done so and we have supported it; there has been a dialectic and we have struggled ourselves to understand the dimension of the event that was hitting us. Today we have certainly come on the right path of a radical intervention, following the indications and support of the technical-scientific committee that stands alongside the Government and Civil Protection. I hope that other countries will also appreciate, learn and speed up their action on the basis of our experience and decisions. After that, it is inevitable: each of us, every Italian has the need, the obligation to look to the future, of himself, of his own family, of his own work, of his own children. In order to do so, you must have the tranquillity, and, gentlemen representatives of the Government, on this to you the burden of giving it; to give the accomplished meaning of things: that the future will be and will be a future of rebirth; that the Government supports the country, economic activities; that jobs will not be lost; that the economic infrastructure (tourism, crafts, commerce, agriculture, services, industry) must be safeguarded because in a few weeks - we hope - the system, updating itself, investing in itself, will have to make a bet for the future. We need to be timely. Who today has difficulties because he has commitments, mortgages, deadlines, dependents to pay, must know that the Government and the State are close to him; he must have not only perception, but certainty. I therefore hope that a measure will soon be put in place to assess all the measures needed to achieve this objective: to give certainty to the future of this country, including help to families, individual aid, support to the weakest groups. We must keep the economic fabric in place, guaranteeing perspective in all possible ways, but also giving support to the internal consumption that will soon have to relaunch our economic system. Authors of the Government, Parliament is close to you, it supports you in a unified way; it is willing to share with the Government and carry out the function of belt of conjunction between the country, the territories and the central government, but we must strengthen this type of direction; we must not stop. Today we took a huge step. Personally, I hope that is enough. If it is not, it must be timely and, if necessary, put in place new interventions, as all political forces have asked. We thank President Conte, we thank Minister Gualtieri, who has done a lot and spent it. It is also because of its credibility that we have such an important measure today. Today is the moment of unity, it is the time to believe in the future. It's time to believe in our country. Long live Italy! [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and LEU groups and Senator Pichetto Fratin.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u48	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, of course I can only associate myself with many of the words that have been said so far, in which it must be lived responsibly as a moment of national unity in the face of a serious emergency. Allow me, however, to make a first remark. It is clear that those who, for years, have preached to us the opportunity to dissolve the nations in a supranational entity, surrendering sovereignty, fortunately - I repeat: fortunately - in the moment of need, rediscover the virtues of being a national community [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] as well as the virtues of our elders, in the face of a modernity that wanted to destroy everything and that instead realizes that in the past something good was there. In the meantime, I would like to say to this House that it was a pleasure to work with my colleagues in the majority to reach an agreed solution. It was a pleasure, but, like all pleasures, it brought some sacrifice and so I would very succinctly like to show you what our - as I jokingly defined it to Senator Ferrari - auction base was. Our resolution, starting from the observation that in the face of the emergency of the coronavirus actually requires a change of paradigm and that therefore it no longer makes sense to speak of deviation from the path of virtuous balance of accounts (basically the old cassette of the tools of the fiscal compact, the two pack, the six pack), starting from the finding that all this does not have a great sense today, demanded a truly ambitious move, that is, asked the government to consider in the update of the return plan any amount should prove necessary to the realization of all the interventions in the health and economic financial field useful to face the epidemiological emergency from COVID-19 and also to revive the Italian economy seriously affected. In fact, a fact that we must recognize: we know that the intervention that we are going to vote on today is only the first step of a journey and then - I must say it with serenity, but also with a certain bitterness - that I think at this moment the title of a book by a historian, Philip Mirowski, which translated into Italian is more or less an invitation not to let a good crisis be wasted. Well, this crisis could have been a good tactical opportunity, in terms of economic policy, but also a good cultural opportunity, and I see that we are losing one and the other. From the point of view of economic policy, I would like to reiterate here what I had to say today to Mr Gualtieri, who had to leave us - I certainly do not blame him, because I know how committed he is at the moment - at the hearing today in the Joint Commissions, namely that we should learn from the example of the French cousins, who faced a shock of substantially comparable magnitude to the current one did a good thing: they started from a deficit of 7% and then climbed half a year. Why this? Because in the absurdity of the European rules, to which we continue to bow, in a certain sense, it is much better to do so, because if we fix the 7 and then we go down, year by year the descent is considered a positive effort and therefore we are not sanctioned. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] At the same time, the effect of hysteria is eliminated - as the technicians say and since then I will talk about science I wanted to make you understand that I too am a scientist (once I was) - that is, you do not start from a lower step, because then the potential will be encrypted to that lowest step to which you have arrived. Here we continue, instead of starting high and climbing, to add one grain at a time, generating uncertainty in the markets and entrepreneurs. This was our resolution and I heard the following sentence at the meeting (not by majority, but by all, thank God): But if we make a white commitment and then markets...? At that point I have to say that I have transsected a little: perhaps we should also take back the dignity of our role, that is, maybe we should take the famous cultural shot and instead I see that we continue to bow to fetishes, for example the markets. We are not at all suspicious of Bolshevism or of being supporters of the planned economy, but we are also those who claim that markets are a factor of progress if they are governed by politics and it seems to me that today, slowly, we are all coming to this conclusion. Too bad we arrived after a long political season in which the praise of modernity and the market led us to have less beds per inhabitant of China. This must also be said: austerity was not a choice of myself as an individual and elector, nor of the Group to which I belong. As for science, if science did not agree to be called into question, if it were this absolute fetish to bow to, if it did not make itself political, we would still cure ourselves with bloodshed and we would not understand the importance of the gesture we do by entering here, that is to say of washing up and disinfecting our hands. Science has always been there, there has always been someone who thought he knew everything, too bad that everything has been dynamically developed also because of the fact that it could be questioned. Can I tell you one thing for the umpteenth time? I may be sickening, but it offends and annoys me to hear about Europe: let's call it the European Union. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's add an extra word. We have little time, but they are two different things: one thing is our cultural roots, the sense of our living together (which perhaps we are discovering thanks to this shock), one thing is a project that is doomed to failure, also because it makes us waste time. Today we have lost an afternoon, albeit with the loving company of the undersecretary Misiani, to whom my greetings go, and that of other selected colleagues in this House, to carry out a basically useless rite that is being asked of us by the rules that emanate from this political project. In relation to what we are doing, it has been said that we are not asking Europe, and in fact we should not ask for anything but decide from us what we need and do so. It has also been said that we are asking our children and here I sincerely trasecolo. If we are talking about debt, let's say it once and for all: debt is money that we ask the markets, that they give us if they consider it appropriate. In the meantime, we should understand why we have made the choice to entrust the financing of a sovereign state to the will of the markets, which are entities that fail. We do not understand why we must recognize this state of superior not recogniscens compared to a legislative body that is significant of a national community. This is not understood because, if the markets were infallible, I would accept it, but the failures of the markets are in the eyes of everyone, not only of those who, like me, taught this subject for twenty-five years. Then this history of future generations must also end with a mere cultural fact. I cannot accept that in this House we continue to express ourselves as some nice journalists of vanguard. The theme of future generations does not exist except to the extent that we leave to those who follow us a heavy legacy of poverty, the dismantling of the social state and precariousness. This is what we need to worry about with regard to future generations. This is our responsibility, that is, the fact that we have not done enough to ensure an orderly growth of the country's economy. That is what I wanted to say and I wanted to say it because we will now vote on the majority resolution on a sense of responsibility. I think it was my duty to give you the tools to appreciate what the burden of this responsibility is for us and what it is along the path we have had to take to meet the Government at this difficult time for our country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FI-BP and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u49	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u51	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for being here to face together - we all know - one of the most difficult moments for a long time now. First of all, I would like to express - as previous speakers have done and I would also like to do so on behalf of my Group - our most affectionate and profound closeness and our sympathy to the families of the people who have been missing. I would also like to express closeness and support to those who from now on will have to limit their lives and freedom in order to respect fundamental prescriptions not only for them, but for all of us. How can we fail to remember the people who are carrying out acts of heroism in these hours: doctors, health workers, researchers, hospital workers, voluntary associations, civil protection volunteers, the law enforcement agencies, the forces that must maintain public order and the Army? All of them are united together to allow us to overcome this moment and to ensure that the rules and precepts laid down in these hours are respected. You will have the feeling that I am insisting too much on this, but I think - colleagues, we have said this many times in these hours - that much of our future, of the future of our health infrastructures (which have unfortunately also been affected by the virus), of our productive fabric and of our life is conditioned by our future behavior from here to the next weeks. So each of us must - as we are doing here - work for the common good, take responsible attitudes and not only invoke but practice unity. Unity is not a word but a path. We have met the majority and we thank Minister Gualtieri and the majority for having partly accepted the proposals of Forza Italia and of the centre-right - I repeat - always in the general interest, always for the common good, always to get out as quickly as possible from a dramatic moment. Here there are no political demands and flags to wave, but there are competences, knowledge and pooling of ideas. The measures that will come are already partly before Parliament, in order to deal with a rising emergency; some of the measures that are passing through these hours in Parliament are in some respects already obsolete because they represent an outdated time. We are working together, we are working to ensure that what the Government is proposing, that is, a deviation of 20 billion of the deficit-GDP ratio from what we have committed ourselves to do with the Stability and Growth Pact and all subsequent acts (therefore a difference of around 25 billion on the balance sheet items by cash and by competence, as Minister Gualtieri told us), is immediately made available to our country and its assets that need to be assisted. We believe what Minister Gualtieri said and we will watch the path that we will all have to do together on health infrastructure (the first to be fed) and liquidity, which will have to fall on a country that will be asked for more sacrifices. We know, in order to get out of the crisis quickly and better it will be necessary to sacrifice some of our freedom again, in order to prevent contradictions or timidities now leading to future problems. We have therefore asked - and we repeat this again in this context - for there to be no ambiguity, grey areas and shadow areas in the application of the provisions given by the Government and endorsed by us. We want Italy to be in a position for fifteen days to fully express its principle of maximum precaution in order to get out - I repeat - soon and better of a crisis that is certainly a health crisis, it is already an economic crisis and it is becoming a social crisis: we see it from what has happened these days and from the terrible images of protests in prisons that have circulated on all domestic and international television networks. We therefore call for these funds to be made available to those economic operators and to those productive groups who will be forced to sacrifice their work and, above all, to live a moment of great uncertainty from here to the end of the month. This - I address both members of the Government - is the third leg that Minister Gualtieri has guaranteed us will be implemented immediately. An immediate moratorium will be put in place on taxes, taxes, contributions, instalments of loans that cannot be paid if there is no liquidity due to lack of work, rents. Those tenants whose rent cannot be paid for lack of work will also have to be compensated. So we need liquidity. These 20 billion euros for us represent only the beginning of a process of flexibility of a deficit-GDP ratio that must be increasingly flexible as the emergency increases (and unfortunately we fear it will increase), a path that allows our productive categories that are suffering the most from a refreshment. You know that we believe that the drastic and courageous choice of closure of production activities (an additional limitation compared to an orange zone that is not completely defined in its perimeter) represents the road for a faster exit from the crisis, excluding of course the so-called essential services, strategic sectors and perishable productions. For us, however, it is essential that this happens in order to allow the recovery to really have that momentum and that engine that our country will need after a phase of so strong - and, unfortunately, for now, ineluctable - depression. As we have said, we consider this part of the proposals that Forza Italia has presented to the Government since the first hours of progress of the crisis, which unfortunately began to manifest at the end of January and of which we immediately felt the gravity (we must say and do it without any controversy, but only in a collaborative perspective, as we have done so far). We need immediate assistance at work. We all know people who say they have to close the store, stop production or not be able to give their employees the security to come to the factory tomorrow. Some say one of your employees got sick and had to quarantine the facility. Here we all have to give guarantees that work will be assisted: support for work. As Minister Gualtieri said yesterday during our meeting at Palazzo Chigi - I repeat again - no one must lose their job because of the coronavirus. On this point we will always be there, day and night, with our measures, because we think it is time to really do things together for the country. Let's do them together, but let's do them. The forecast of 20-25 billion euros of fiscal stakes per cash and by competence are the necessary start, probably not sufficient (I say this without any polemic intent). We have already talked about health infrastructure to be strengthened and about liquidity to fall on the country. In fact, my colleague Pichetto Fratin was talking about "helo economy," Milton Friedman's famous idea of powerful liquidity grafts. This will not yet be possible, but it makes the idea of how our country must have the perception that what is being lost by the productive categories will be restored and refreshed and that families can be helped by the guarantee that the State knows what is happening now and that it will prepare the conditions for the next assistance. On this assumption, Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting in favour of a motion for a resolution which is a window on the world, an idea of a subsequent increase in sums that must be available to ensure that the country continues. That is what we must do; we must tell our fellow citizens and the people who have been affected, but above all those who must work in prevention: "Stay home, but be assured that we are releasing the economy and growth for you when all this is over" We don't give up. Our proposals will always be available to the Government but, as has happened in part and as we are certain will happen in the future, we will have to share with us an idea of Country and a vision of recovery of assistance and support that represents the polar star of the activity of Forza Italia. On this basis, I shall vote in favour of the motion for a resolution by the majority. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u54	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, never before do I feel the need to use simple words at the moment, that they should possibly be directed to the hearts of people who are currently experiencing hours of worry and anxiety. It is a real country that is looking at us looking for solutions and directions, and we must give a clear signal. I was sent a message (I think you have received many during this time) from a citizen who said: We must have strength, you must have strength and above all you must transmit it. In the second part of the message he also said: "You must live up to the situation." I have thought a lot about these two words, because strength is a concept that can only be applied in some cases, while in others it is simple management of events. In this case, Mr President, as has just been mentioned, it seems to me that strength can be applied to all those people who, at this moment, from medical personnel, to the authorities, to all the Forces of Order, are trying to combat the epidemic. There are, as has already been mentioned, numerous victims. At this juncture I would also like to say a word on this subject. I read an interview with the daughter of the first coronavirus victim, Adriano Trevisan, who said, with great emotion, that that was not a name and a surname in a newspaper, was not the first victim: he was his father, the grandfather of his children and was a caring grandfather. Unfortunately, in a situation of this kind we must maintain a great many points of view, even when it is not easy, even when unpredictability is triggered. I said, however, that the strength is also that of the Government, first of all with an action of initial transparency, which someone has also criticized. It was criticised that he had said what the situation was, that he had done it immediately, that he had said the number of cases, that he had prepared a very large task force, that he had involved civil protection and that he had set up a scientific committee. I went to review the various measures, the various decree-laws, the ministerial decrees, the press conferences, the communication, which in this case is very important. It is a great deal of action that has been taken to protect, first and foremost, the health of citizens and people, including timely measures on the basis of the principles of proportion and adequacy, as the President-in-Office of the Council has pointed out several times. Well, I've also glimpsed so many articles of our Constitution. Mr President, I find it hard not to see the application of the truly fundamental principles of our country, such as the protection of public health, the solidarity principle, the fact of balancing the various interests in the field under conditions that are not simple where there is no room for interpretation for lawyers. To be up to the situation, to take up the other invitation that has been addressed by those who have faith in its representatives, means to say the things as they are, even clearly, in non-cryptic language - as often happens to politics - but direct and to see the direction that must be followed. It means having the courage to perhaps return to pre-existing decisions. For example, it is not a fact that the government initially planned an appropriation of EUR 7 billion and that it has arrived, in a constant dialogue based on listening, to foresee resources of as much as EUR 25 billion. What does all this mean, translated for those who do not know the political and economic dynamics? It means that, at this time, we need more money and, therefore, the deviation from the already planned deficit targets is necessary. If I had to translate it into an even simpler image, I could say that in a family, if the children are sick, the father tries to do debt to save them. This is something that I do not think, but it does not exclude - it is the second part of the speech I would like to make - the more general reflection on Europe, on the mechanisms and on the European economic and accounting model. But now there are actions on which we must be clear and direct: people want to know from us, in simple words, what is happening and what we will do. We have already taken steps to combat coronavirus and its spread, from a health point of view but also from an economic point of view. Tempestiva was the suspension of taxes and mortgages (and will be important all its programming), the strengthening of hospitals, the purchase of new appliances for assisted ventilation and intensive therapies. Mr President, often when you are in here, taken as we are on the subject of measures, you cannot always see the effects, but a strong country comes out of it, a country that takes up those principles that I said earlier, that appeal to unity and that request of that particular citizen. Evidently, in the face of such events, important answers and volumes are needed. This data has been taken up several times, it seems to me also by Senator De Petris, but also in Senator Bagnai's speech. Of course, no one doubts that these are formulas, that what we are asking for now in the resolution are five lines necessary to unlock and dispose of these additional resources. But this is the current state. We must do everything we need to do quickly. We must speed up every debate and every speech, even within Europe, about the fact that so many things, on which there is a reflection today, are no longer going. I think, for example, as has already been said, of the Stability and Growth Pact, on which, however, a broad debate has developed at European level with regard to its effect of reducing growth, thus going in the opposite direction to what is desired. Then there are the speeches about eurobonds, never as necessary as at this time, and about debt sharing, also to boost growth. I greatly appreciated the words of the representative of the Government and I very much hope that the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) will not be at the top of the agenda of the next European Council - there have been reassuring words, in this sense - because it would be absolutely out of context and out of common sense and I would say of all of us: that would be absurd. It is also important to revise the speech on State aid, which is too easily interpreted as a "clave," especially with regard to Italy. I recall, among other things, the opening up of the programme objectives of the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, in July 2019: there is a famous letter, sent to all parties, on the need for greater flexibility. Well, now these words must become facts, not because we are faced with such a dramatic and emerging situation, but because immediately it must be a different scaffolding and, as I said, an economic-accountable model, which no longer allows the distinction - on this the Senator Bagnai is right - between Europe and the European Union. If we agree that we must compete at European level on issues such as work, growth and employment, we will no longer be able to adopt these two separate meters of judgment and these two different ideas, but we will have to find a single solution. This is the current photograph. I am sorry that there has also been no mention of the attempt to get a joint signature of the motion for a resolution, but we will have a joint vote on it, and this is very important. However, I would like to send a message from here, ladies and gentlemen, when, among other things, the image of this House is also exemplifying. At this moment we must devote ourselves together to dismissing the measures we feel fundamental for the country and its expectations, without giving up our ideas and of course our contributions to the political debate. The political oppositions, even strong, and the quarrels are, however, absolutely out of context, are not even understood and it is right: the Italian people have clearly said that for the next few months they want only measures that go in the direction of aid and the solution of a problem that at this moment is greater than many other debates that unfortunately have been formed to side. I therefore announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u55	The sitting shall be suspended until 5 p.m., in order to comply with the timetable and order of votes, which have already been communicated. (The sitting was suspended at 4.53 p.m. and resumed at 5.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u56	We shall proceed to the vote on motion for a resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger, accepted by the Government. The vote will take place by roll-call vote in alphabetical order, according to the order and times already communicated, starting with the senators members of the Government. Each senator will vote from his place in the Chamber. The favorable senators will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. GINETTI, secretary, makes the appeal. (In the course of voting, the Presidency takes office - 18.39 p.m.). The senators answered: Abate, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Astorre, Auddino, Agugussori Bagnai, Barbaro, Battistoni, Bellanova, Berardi, Bergesio, Bernini, Binetti, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Bonino, Borgonzoni, Bottici, Botto, Bressa, Briziarelli, Bruzzone, Buccarella Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliguri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Carbone, Cario, Croatti, Croatti, Crucioli D'Alfonso, Cesaro, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corradi, Croatti, Crocioli D'Angelo, D'Angelo PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the result of the roll-call vote on behalf of motion for resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Perilli, Marcucci, De Petris, Pharaoh and Steger, on the report to Parliament, prepared pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 24 December 2012: [[Senators present 222 Senators voting 221 Absolute majority 161 Favourites 221]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B). It is therefore excluded from the motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u57	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-200.ana.u58	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 25 March, at 2 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 7.23 p.m.
