ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.05 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting on 28 May. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u3	The next item is the debate on the draft law n° 1829, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call the President of the 6th Permanent Commission, Senator Bagnai, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u4	Mr President, since I am in the process of reporting on the Commission's work, what I will say will not be very surprising to this House. On Thursday 28 May the general debate in the Commission was concluded. We then met today for the examination of the amendments and began on the agenda. However, despite the self-denial of colleagues and the willingness of the Government, the time available did not allow us to give the term of office to the rapporteur. I am therefore here to report to the House on the outcome of the examination carried out in the Commission. Keep in mind that, in theory, we would have four days to examine the provision and, as they say, to impossible nemo tenetur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Bagnai's report, draft law No 1829, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, members of the Government, my time is only five minutes, so I must be very quick. The reading of the so-called liquidity decree reveals a number of problems that mainly concern the way in which rules are written, which still leave too much room for dubious interpretations. I believe that the emergency related to Covid is an opportunity to write an Italian new deal, between the public and the private, trying to intertwine in an extremely "confidential" way the relationship between these two worlds. All this I do not see yet and I must tell you, as a private entrepreneur, that I am living it on my shoulders. I can't tell you what happened in my relationship with the banks. I even had to write to the president of the Italian Banking Association to get the same answer to a question that was then solved and that I had to send to the official of the bank in order to be able to unlock (even if it has not yet been definitively unlocked, it is EPP) the position of the 25,000 euros minimum financing. I'm going to move on to the second point. I ask you, please, for a new alliance between finance and business, by adopting intervention schemes that cannot be the refrain of the past and not even models that have been fused from abroad, because we have a completely different productive fabric. We favour the private equity industry, in which I take back my personal case: I had foreign financiers, who were not even a majority in my company, and this blocked the provision of 25,000 euros, which should have been as simple as possible. Finally, I repeat, this part has been unlocked. The last point I would like to highlight is the need to set up hinge structures between the world of finance and business, which are specialised in the reference industries. This is because many times bank officials merely look at the so-called solvency parameters (which have changed significantly after the Covid emergency) and know absolutely nothing about the reference industry. You understand that the tourism industry has its own peculiarities, the agri-food industry has others, the automotive industry has more and so on. Therefore, I believe that these hinge structures, in order to evolve the world of banks and finance in business relations, must be an opportunity for reflection for this Parliament and for the Government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u7	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to debate here today in general debate and, as has already been announced in this House, without a mandate to the rapporteur, yet another measure by the Government which is politically incapable today of managing the economic crisis that is taking place not only in our country, but in the whole world. Three decree-laws, precisely, that are the care Italy, that we have already examined, the decree liquidity and the decree throw again, that unfortunately more resemble a literary trilogy of genre fantasy, because - alas - they are measures in economic matter for nothing incisive on the resumption of the economy of our country, of economic activities, of the job and of the consumption. I refer to this literary genre, also because it is necessary to remember the words of the Government and the President of the Council when announcing these measures and especially the liquidity decree. Remember all the firepower: this was the message that was sent to the country at the time when the liquidity decree was launched and was being prepared. A provision with this power of fire, which must surely attack the economic crisis; we will then see, in reality, the power of fire of this provision. We must pay close attention to the language that is used, because people, in a time of not only economic difficulty, depend on the messages and communication that comes from the rulers. Therefore, the words and promises must follow the facts and see if then the promises of firepower of the decree and of billions that would come to the economy of our country have really arrived. We need to see if the liquidity promised today is in circulation. So much so: the decree-law itself, as it is stated, speaks to us of urgent measures in the matter of access to credit and of tax obligations for the enterprises: therefore it is not a liquidity decree, but it is a debt decree, which is sold by this Government for liquidity, because a company that at this moment needs liquidity to pay the costs of the activities of a company that has been closed, must go and seek it from the banks and must go and ask for it. And what does the government give? Just a guarantee. The problem, as Senator Tiraboschi also said before me, is that you are putting businesses in trouble, because the future, as well as the present, is very uncertain today. We are not in the fifties, in a post-war phase; in that particular period certainly the economic boom has given relief to the economy and to the enterprises. At this moment the future is very uncertain and that is why companies with great difficulties are going to banks to get into debt, precisely because they have no certainty of their future. At this moment there is a need for real, sure, immediate and lost liquidity, as we have asked for in so many commitments and in so many proposals that we have made to the Government. And not only do we say that we are, in this case, opposition party, so someone could say that it is a fanciful proposal of oppositions: all those professional associations that have been audited in the Commission on the decree in recent weeks say so. So it is not just an opposition party that says so. Finally, in these hours, the Governor of the Bank of Italy, who said in his annual report, has also said this: "the interventions of support to companies focused on bank financing, although indispensable, could lead to an imbalance in their financial structure, increasing their indebtedness to an excessive extent." We have told the companies to be in debt and not to the country to be in debt. Those of the Governor of the Bank of Italy are strong and clear words, which make the balance depend on the debt side of the companies, at a particular moment when, as I said, the recovery is uncertain and there is no foreign demand, just as there is not, even today, domestic demand. The decree-law in question should therefore have provided liquidity to companies, but it only gives - and less harm! - a 100% guarantee. It is a good thing that in the course of the conversion to the Chamber of Deputies, on a proposal from Forza Italia, the loans were extended from six to ten years. [[Applause]] At least something concrete has been done, with the extension of the loan. To compare briefly, let's look at the liquidity available in other countries. If, for example, in Germany this liquidity is around 10% of gross domestic product and in the United States it is about 9%, in Italy we have only stopped at 0.9%. These are numbers with which we will not go anywhere, unless today we accompany this particular moment with serious reforms, which are primarily aimed at reducing the tax and taxation of companies. In our view, the necessary courage has been lacking and the consequences are in everyone's eyes, because companies, which would like to look at a government that puts forward measures for the future, have no certainty of the future at all. That is why I maintain that the government certainly lacked courage. Unfortunately, the vice-president of the European Savings Bank Group, Professor Ghisolfi, has also made a dramatic comparison. Speaking in these weeks in the debate, he said that we must make a choice: either today we bring the country's public debt to 170 percent of GDP or, otherwise, companies risk closing down and people risk dying of hunger. We are in the public debt and we ask that the Government commit itself to the liquidity of companies. On the other hand, we are witnessing the usual measures, because yours is a welfare government, which only does welfare; therefore it is public debt, but not for businesses: it is only for welfare. We are witnessing a widening of the citizenship income, although the Court of Auditors has also said these days that the results of the citizenship income have been largely unsatisfactory. And you still spend money on citizenship income! It should be clear by now that, with subsidies and assistance, the economy does not start again at all and, therefore, that firepower so announced by the President of the Council, in the end, was a firecracker, which has served absolutely nothing, except to further indebt the companies, which at the moment have great liquidity difficulties; in fact, the companies still have huge costs to pay and the liquidity, alas, still does not arrive. If today, at this particular moment, we do not really help small and medium-sized enterprises, the collapse of work is just around the corner. At this moment the dismissals are blocked by decree: very well. However, we must look at the Istat data we have received on the employment rate in the first months of the year, in January and February. We have already lost 400,000 jobs and many others will lose, if we are not able to take measures that avoid it, creating a synergistic relationship between companies and workers. We need to give companies the chance to keep the employment force intact, otherwise the redundancies on the part of our country's businesses are just around the corner. We must therefore put all the necessary forces in place, as we said, including by bringing public debt to a ratio of 170 per cent of GDP. The liquidity decree before us, therefore, as we can verify, is absolutely not a measure that can reverse the trend and we would not like to remember it in the future as that decree that made the companies weep, because it also made them fail due to debt. It is for these reasons that as Forza Italia Group we are certainly sceptical. We are also disappointed, because the decree-law is not what we were asking for, that is, a measure that went in the direction of immediate release of liquidity and it is for this reason that we express all our negative opinion on the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u9	Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, there is yet another farce from this Government today. We are at 3 June and we have come to the Commission and now to the debate of the Assembly a measure dated 8 April, approved in the House on 25 May. Within two months, we can't figure out if there was the government's inability or the willingness not to make this provision arrive in good time. [[Applause.]] And given the pastrocchio made, it would have been useful and indispensable a further passage, not to give the contentment to the ugly and bad of the League, but to bring improvements and integrations to a provision of April 8, a measure dated, that in these two months has demonstrated all its inefficiencies and difficulties. Let's start with the name: Decree-Law liquidity. In this measure, liquidity is zero; we are talking only about guarantees for access to credit, so, in addition to deception, there is also mockery, because it is practically impossible to access credit. [[Applause.]] And it is not we who say this to make electoral slogans: the accountants say, who have the questions firm since April 24; the professionals, the small activities, who have requested a contribution, a help with the return and have not yet obtained anything. A help you need, in fact, to pay your taxes! Not to mention the fact that the emergency began in February and all these companies, the professionals were forced to close; he was forced to close in an emergency period. That's right, but they still had to pay living expenses: the costs of rent, utilities, the costs of sanitization, for restarting. What does the state do? The state is absent, and it is shameful! This government has not listened to the territory; a territory that shouted loudly starting from the mayors, the administrations, the Regions and, besides not helping them, has dumped on them all the responsibilities of the case. I can tell you this because I am an administrator: in the municipalities we administrators, together with the mayors, have been the main actors, both in the health and in the economic phase. In the first phase, health care, we gave tranquillity and support to our citizens; in the economic phase the juntas made resolutions and managed, with all the difficulties, to give refreshment to the whole social fabric, economic and productive, to the face of a government that did not listen to it. And nothing was worth the cry of help from the local authorities: this government has gone beyond, has not listened to anyone. Begin to listen to us; you have made proclamations on proclamations: Minister Gualtieri said, Minister Patuanelli said and again Prime Minister Conte, who will delight us tonight with a new direct. [[Applause.]] You said that these loans would be granted in 48, 70 or more hours. A gesture of love was also asked of the banks. Banks cannot respond with love. The banks only needed a regulatory change that would allow them not to instruct all practices with the ordinary process, but with an emergency process. You didn't do that either! [[Applause.]] And we can't understand if all this is due to the inability or willingness to sell our country to foreign multinationals, maybe Chinese, so also the Movimento 5 Star Group is happy. But this can't go on. I ask you, please, and I don't speak as a senator, I ask you as an advisor, as an administrator: listen to the territories, the municipalities are in collapse, and so the companies. The whole country is collapsing. Do not go on with arrogance, arrogance and deafness, because in the end the price we will all pay, including you: the mandate does not last forever, people will realize it, sooner or later. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u11	Colleagues, I did not want to interrupt Senator Nisini, but I remind you that it is not possible to take photos or videos in this House. Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u12	Mr President, the decree-law under discussion is part of the tris d'axi d'emergency: the Italian care measure, which had a budget of EUR 20 billion in debt and a commitment forecast of EUR 25 billion; the subsequent decree, the one defined as relaunch, which provides for a debt of EUR 55 billion and effects even of EUR 150 billion; in the middle, the decree-law liquidity. Compared to the decree cure Italy, which had to go in the address to cover the needs of the demand (essentially it provided interventions for the fund integration and in support of the demand and the families), the decree liquidity had to intervene to maintain, in the period of emergency, the system of the enterprises. The decree relaunched, in turn, had instead to implement interventions for a resumption of the economy of our Country. In fact, the decree relaunches, currently in the House, is part of the same package of measures care Italy and liquidity: still everything, unfortunately, completely emergency. A furrow of emergency, however, because unfortunately we must point out that there is a lot of desire for it. I would like to mention the press conference on the launch of EUR 400 billion. This is a desirable but necessary measure, along the lines of the other European countries, of course in a lesser tone than the availability of which other countries, like Germany, could have had for their interventions; it is necessary because perhaps it should have been totally lost, but we could not afford it, as it intervenes with a series of mechanisms without knowing the consequences. I would like to remind you that the liquidity decree, which was to give an umbrella of EUR 400 billion in the immediate future, has, in fact, simply come to a halt in the face of the signature of a bank official, who has not automatically signed. [[Applause]] I have made another career in my life, but if I had been an official of any bank, I would not have put at risk the fifth of my salary and any property, acquired or inherited, to grant 25,000 euros, immediately, to the first company that needed it. The other issue, on which so much is being discussed, is the following. I've seen the data from the first 420,000 questions, and the media reports that the financed automatically may be the ones that needed the least. On this I disagree personally, because even if, in the immediate future, automatism has favored those who had credit, over whom the official signed more quietly, they have nevertheless succeeded. They have served and serve to keep stronger, probably, companies and small businesses that already are. But the fundamental theme is that, despite the intervention of the Chamber, the path is still slow on the other great system, that of medium and large companies, those beyond 25,000 euros. I leave out the fact that now the limit is at EUR 30,000, and for our bureaucratic system (it has not yet been understood) they will probably have to redo the question all. Moreover, our country is the country of applications and signatures and we have had the example with the famous certification of our transfers in recent months. I would like to remind you that, probably, even the one who invented certification No. 4 or No. 5 if he stopped to ask himself what he was asking to sign, had doubts about what he was signing, because he did not know all the decrees of the President of the Council that were being recalled. This is the national feature. Here there has emerged an act taken by everyone - I do not make it a matter of government, majority or opposition - of the great trouble that represents the bureaucracy in our country. It emerged because in a situation in which immediate and emergency action was to be taken, there was nothing immediate or emergency. We asked, already with the so-called decree cure Italy, for a clear rule, a clear shift of deadlines. We missed the opportunity also with the so-called liquidity decree and even with the relaunch, the new decree, also for those of 16 September, with a series of doubts and of course we continue to show the inability... PRESIDENT.Senator Pichetto Fratin, can I ask you the kindness to move and use the microphone at the center of the hemicycle, why probably your microphone does not work well? You still have four minutes to speak, so that you can continue your speech clearly for this House. PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, President. I was sabotaged. I couldn't hear it either. PRESIDENT. - The next item is the report (Doc. PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President, and I would like to add a comment. Of course, we have received a number of requests from ourselves in the House, but unfortunately no clarity has been made on the question of terms. The initiative of golden power was accepted, which was then a common factor on the part of the government, and therefore the need to safeguard our business system, but, even in an emergency, has been ignored and is still being ignored, colleagues, the great national disaster, what we read from today's data, which tells us that unemployment has fallen. Banally, it's the unoccupied, the ones who didn't look for work, having lost it immediately. In this regard, for the second time in my life - I have to do an examination of conscience - I agree with an important exponent of the Movimento 5 Stars, that is, Di Battista. The first time I agreed with him was when he stated that the Treaties of the European Union entered into in the early 1990s are obsolete and should therefore be reviewed; the second when I read, a few minutes ago, which raises the issue of unemployment and undeclared work and uses an immediate phrase, saying that we must stop being perbenists and we must address this issue. We agree perfectly, I agree perfectly, because the emergency is still great, we are not yet at the next, we are not yet on the rise. Always on this furrow, I would like to talk about chaos, setting an example. Article 77 of the relaunch decree (No 34 of 2020) extends the contribution for sanitization to the third sector. I would like to remind you that Article 43 of the so-called Italian decree cure provided for the transfer of 50 million euros from INAIL to Invitalia for a contribution to sanitization. A ban has been published, 180,000 applications have been submitted and 3,500 have been financed in about a second and a half (I don't know how many were the seconds of the click day) and this shows all its desire, because clearly estimate that 50 million euros are enough for this size is a way to respond to the public saying that it has been done but in reality it is not. Let me add one thing, however: the amendment of Article 43 of the Italian decree-law, with the aforementioned article 77 of the decree relaunch, provides for an enlargement to the third sector; how do you extend to the third sector something on which a ban has already been issued, there are lists and the money is also finished? We have to. ask us; Otherwise, you add money and you already know who those who follow in the ranking and then who you finance (and I stop to finance as long as my colleague Perosino, who is here close to me, will intervene). We must understand this: but I did not understand it, it is probably my difficulty; and yet we must have this doubt. Go on, go on, go on, Similarly, there has been an intervention on Article 42 of the Italian Decree-Law on the responsibility for the accident of companies: this still does not satisfy us, despite the attempt and despite the fact that the Government has also been aware of the need to intervene, because it was not enough the answer if it is all right, you have to be quiet, in fact, in a system like ours, with the level of bureaucracy that there is, it is never completely so for any of us, unfortunately, because we have conflicting and also very interpretable norms. In conclusion, I believe that this is also the occasion, being part of a unique theme also in the Chamber (Cure Italy, liquidity and relaunch), to begin to reason on the great trends and the real restart and relaunch of a society that will see the families no longer in the present conditions, the world of work profoundly changed and probably also of very different and negative living standards. I therefore believe that we must consider, together with the measures and funds that the European Union will make available, how to invest effectively and create the conditions for a new society which is not merely a welfare distribution mechanism. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u13	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have put together a few notes that I have gathered among the people I know, through all the systems that the situation allows us to use - strictly with the mask - on the squares, by telephone and through all the other social media. I read that senate techs would raise difficulties with cover and accounting... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Perosino, there is some problem with the microphones: I ask you kindly to change the station, as soon as the microphone has been cleaned. PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, Mr President. I said I put together some notes that I collected around the world, among the people I know. The senate technicians would have made fleas to the decree-law, pointing out that there is no coverage for guarantees, because those of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises can add up to 30 billion euros, but those of SACE add up to the famous hundreds of billions, which was the powerful figure that Count promised. Guarantees are not considered in the deficit and technicians would be afraid of Eurostat's opinion. I should like to make this clear and perhaps I would like to have a clarification. In the guarantees granted by SACE, there is also the application of FCA and Autostrade for Italy (Aspi). On the first I agree basically, because it is a large group, with all the constraints that the law allows to place. I can't have it, as an Italian, with FCA; I resent Holland, which is part of the states that want to teach us the lesson and it is a tax paradise, at least partial. And so, to make Europe and to believe in Europe means to explain in the proper places that Holland cannot do what it wants, especially from the fiscal point of view. I feel that Aspi, of which Atlantia is a member, has applied, the famous company to which it had been promised to withdraw the motorway concessions and then was asked to enter Alitalia, in contrast with the intentions. Now he asks and who will decide on the basis of what feeling will be led to make the decision. Well, loan applications of up to EUR 25,000 were accepted as a percentage of 51% and amount to 290,000, while applications of more than EUR 25,000 in the percentage of 24% and were 11,663 at 30 May. Someone asked me if this incentive, except for the state guarantee that it is a problem, is some kind of incitement to get into debt. Someone told me that he was in debt for six years -- and now at ten -- he was capable of it alone. Moreover, the procedures are very complicated, as my colleague has already said. Evidently, it takes a person's bankability condition, because for the banks the share they lend and that one tomorrow could be excused to the state must be well placed. Then there are too high rates and commissions. To deal with all the decrees, including what we are talking about today, I have still heard of the recovery of tax evasion. I think it is time to say that tax evasion cannot be pursued in times like this because there is no and there cannot be. If there is, it is out of absolute necessity of life. The Director-General of the Revenue Agency said that checks would be broken down from 1 June. I invoke clemency. In the same way, I hear about the jubilee of the debt - and it gets on with the debt that is being contracted; sooner or later someone will say: "He who gave gave, he who had had, has had." On this we must be careful because we are talking about amounts of debt - there is nothing present anywhere - that no longer involve only our grandchildren, but those who will come after. Talking about jubilee then is not fantasy. Colao from London among other things - I do not know how he succeeds from London, but he will certainly have his means - on the public debt - which is a problem; he was a battlehorse of mine and still is, but if it is said only by me in this House he does not have much weight and he does not have much voice - he takes into account the ideas of illustrious economists who talked about the valorization of real estate through a specially constituted society. We could talk about it once widely to understand why it could be a method. I have read, among other things, that there would be EUR 100 billion to spend on the remnants of the state budget and public bodies in general. These are the famous public works, plus those that still have to be realized and financed. It would be a very powerful figure if we put it in the field; a cash problem could arise at the time of payment, but if they are committed they can be spent. Then we all invoke this blessed Europe, which will help us in 2021 to annual tranches and therefore the amounts that are sold are really very relative. When a European exponent lets himself go to promises, another comes and says that, however, there are conditions, that want to analyze our pension system and our reforms. I say that in Italy we have EUR 21 billion of European funds that have been granted to us for recovery (these are those that we have not been able to spend so far). In order to be part of the ESM we spent 14.4; to enter the Recovery fund you have to pay 2-3 billion euros and then, if things do not go well, that fund will be reconstituted pro rata by the States. In order to enter into the financing of the European Investment Bank (EIB), Italy has to bring out EUR 4-5 billion, over 17 billion that we spend every year on Europe. This means that we would already have the maneuver in hand. We raised 22 billion euros with BTP retail, signed for 14 billion by families and 8 billion by institutions in three days. There is really something that we should analyse without preconceptions - I am a little Eurosceptic: a bit - about the amounts. Now everybody's protesting. If everyone protests, it will mean something, they are not sobillized by television or newspapers: I don't think so, and I don't believe it. The liquidity, in the title of the decree-law, means that the IGC must be paid to everyone immediately; it means that the 600 euros must be paid to everyone; it means that the funds must be granted on a lost basis - those that are granted to those who have certain requirements - to the current account with immediate credit: if not, it is not liquidity. I say, then, to the government representatives to take note, in case they had escaped, of the fact that there is a proposal of some economic journalists who say: in 2020 it is allowed not to carry out depreciation in the budgets of private companies. For a year it can be done: the budgets would probably remain useless, these companies could exist and would not have credit problems and other types. It is then foreseen, in the decree-law, the postponement, until 1 September 2021, of the effectiveness of Legislative Decree No. 14 of 2019, which is that relating to the Code of Crisis and Insolvency. My proposal is to repeal that legislative decree, because with that decree no one will want to be the administrator of private companies, let alone be part of the union college. Furthermore, all taxes and inspections must be suspended or cancelled, as has already been said, at least throughout the year. Let's blame the bureaucracy. Napoleon told in his memoirs - and it was Napoleon - that 5 percent of his time spent making a decision (even the big ones, the strategic ones) and 95 percent to cure the execution of the works. If Napoleon has done so, then probably the Government can do so too, some Minister, some Undersecretary, the members of the majority who have a place of responsibility, because or you know the machine, you know how it works and you know the history of Italy - at least after the war - in detail and in practice, otherwise bureaucracy does not defeat it. A practice, that is, must be followed to the end. In the final considerations of the Governor of the Bank of Italy of last Friday, it is written that it is a crisis of demand and supply: "the entire value chain risks breaking to be born with new geometries." Which, translated, means: probably from this crisis will come out a different economy, in which value judgments and consumption will change. Certain products worth 10 will then be 1 and certain products worth 1 will go to 10. It is a different world that needs to be addressed and on which the Government must reflect. For the banks, there will be a new wave of non-performing loans: it's safe (it's been years and those of the Monte dei Paschi, for a value of 10 billion euros are always there). The Genoa model should then be included in the procurement code and should be implemented. These are a few notes that I thought I would submit, in a constructive spirit, because the overall judgment on the maneuver by Forza Italia cannot be positive and will translate in its time, today or tomorrow, into a vote against. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u15	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I have asked to speak in order to make an act of optimism. In the sense that it is beyond doubt that we cannot rely on a correction in these days of this measure: my optimism, however, is to hope that the majority will take an initiative of correction in the decree relaunch. I believe that I am interpreting the thinking not so much of us parliamentarians, but of Italian citizens. Each of you will have had the opportunity to talk to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and will have realized that there is not only dissatisfaction but today there is also anger. I had to argue and argue, because I argued that this government did not want to give the banks a gift, as the volcano claims. Many say: "But how, do they give us a loan and then renegotiate the previous debt?" Mr. Undersecretary, I wish we could reason with each other on this point. The State guarantee has its own ratio: in a serious situation it is necessary to guarantee liquidity to the economic system (at this time and not in two years' time), but since there is no money from Germany, it has invented the State guarantee system (this is the ratio of that guarantee); but it must be able to effectively guarantee the purpose for which it is given, i.e. immediate liquidity. We are then faced with the fact that if it is a large enterprise, even if it has a debt situation towards the banks, it must not renegotiate the debt; if it is a small or medium-sized enterprise, it must renegotiate the debt, provided that 10% of finance is guaranteed. It is quite literally written, Mr Undersecretary: it is literal, it is not an interpretation, and that is what happens. You know better than I do the entrepreneur who went to door to door: you got 200,000 euros compared to the 300,000 euros required, having 135,000 euros of debt; indeed, not properly of debt, but related to the financing that the bank had granted you. And you teach me that, if the bank has already granted a debt, you have granted it with a mortgage guarantee or with any other guarantee (fideiussoria or whatever). Now, this State guarantee had to be applied for a sum that had to be kept separate from the previous debtor position; if the distinction is not guaranteed, the system does not stand, because in my opinion the same ratio of the guarantee is lost. You know better than I do that in the total debt of companies there may also be debts arising from personal relationships of the entrepreneur and that they have been charged to the company; such debts have no justification to be guaranteed by the State (or, better, to be paid back, because in that case they are paid back). I do not know whether or not it will be correct what we have read on the recovery plan these days, about a scenario of staggering funding up to 2024-2025. If so, we have an urgent need; there are many small companies that are not reopening. You know it better than I do, because sometimes it travels the road between Chamber and Senate: already on this route there are small restaurants that have closed, because there is not even this little help. I am not speaking to you as an opposition, Mr Undersecretary, but as an intervention to try to do something; even if you tell me that what I say is wrong and that we could resolve this in another way I might agree, but the problem we have to ask ourselves is whether there is liquidity. Why did you invent the guarantee? I appreciated the choice you made, because we would hardly have been able to guarantee liquidity to small businesses, but then we have to make it effective. What is written in the various measures in favour of investment, liquidity, the way small businesses operate, we must make it effective. However, in days - and I do not say so - because otherwise people will start to think that they are chatter. You will have read like me the interview of the President of the Senate, who spoke clearly of the need for the money to be paid as soon as possible, within the year, at least on small things, otherwise you cannot go on. The request is therefore for an effective assessment of what is happening. The bank can wait for its previous credit to be repaid, since it will certainly have granted it for a guarantee guarantee or even for mortgage real estate; instead it will immediately proceed to the liquidity for the guarantee of the State, otherwise we also give the image of a State that is not in a position to be respected for the guarantee that it has granted. I have this difficulty and individual a serious problem for our country. When some of these companies do not open up within a few months, it will mean that our production system will have failed and it is something we must intervene on together; I am not interested in the roles of opposition or majority: I am available, as I believe in my Group, to work together to solve this problem. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u17	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here today as Members repeating our positions on the measures that have taken place in the Covid emergency. You will say that we continue to repeat as broken records that our recipes would be others, that most of the measures proposed so far not to sink the Italian economy have not been effective or adequate, indeed they have demonstrated and are proving to be a great mockery for the Italians. I would like to focus on the so-called liquidity decree-law under consideration, which - let us be honest - is the mockery par excellence. It has been announced to unified networks with the roboating definition of the fire power of 400 billion euros. It seemed that the lawyer Conte had made available to the Italians 400 billion euros, except then find out immediately after that it was debt: the State guarantees the entrepreneur precisely because it is undue. The measure in itself could also be valid if it is accompanied by valuable aid and real injections of non-refundable liquidity, but the weak non-refundable measures have delayed to arrive and after a thousand referrals have arrived, among many stakes, farraginous articles, with the so-called decree-law relaunch, which in the end has seen the light only now at the end of May (but we will have to talk about that elsewhere). The decree-law under consideration, so-called liquidity, has been written so badly that every bank has interpreted it according to its parameters; it has been left so wide room for interpretations that, apart from some happy cases of people who have asked for the 25,000 euros and obtained them, many - too many - small entrepreneurs and VAT lots have received the most imaginative answers from their credit institutions, just to justify that denial. I quote a few: "No, you are already exposed" (this is the easiest); "no, we wait for the decrees implementing them"; "no, we wait for the conversion into law of the decree-law." I've heard all kinds of things. Do you realize that? Colleagues, have you asked your relatives, friends or acquaintances? I know one who managed to get the 25,000 euros and who, in fact, didn't even need it so much, but the others? When the government realized that it was not working, at the end of April, its top exponent, Prime Minister Conte, ran to the shelter asking for an act of love to the banks following which the Italian Banking Association (ABI) spread a circular orientation, obviously for companies and professionals. Given that the decree-law itself has been misspelled, the conversion phase has gone too far - as it is now customary - in a branch of Parliament and now arrives here in the Senate. Back to the beginning of the speech: we are just members: we in the Senate, while understanding the flaws of this decree, in nothing we could affect it. To be honest, a good amendment of the League has passed to the House, which brings the 25,000 euros of guaranteed debt to 30,000, but nothing more. And you ask for our cooperation? What collaboration can we give you, if we see the problems and any observations we make are ignored or prejudiced? This is my worst anger: we see the measures passed, we see the practical negative implications, but we in the minority can point our finger and nothing more, we cannot affect a rubber wall. Mine is an appeal: at least for the next decree-laws, in particular for the next huge decree from 266 articles, which I do not know how it will see the light and how it will pass to the House, listen to the League. We are local administrators, we are entrepreneurs even before we are senators, listen to us! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u19	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent months we have unfortunately seen what none of us would have liked to see: we have experienced a real nightmare and we certainly cannot lower our guard right now, because the virus continues to be dangerous and lurking. We have seen so many people suffer because of the Covid-19, so many - too many - mourning families, whole areas on their knees, touched and fatally wounded by this invisible evil. We have seen empty cities and all the activities suspended, the trains stopped at the station and the unarmed world. That is why it is with pride that I would like to say thank you for the excellent work done by this Government and by President Conte. His apparitions on television were not, as someone suggested, mere propaganda footbridges, but interventions to support the Italian people. [[Applause.]] The President placed health at the heart of his political action, enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution, as a prerequisite for the enjoyment of all other fundamental rights protected and guaranteed by our Constitutional Charter. Italy's work and choices have been very important, so much so as to deserve the world's spotlight and to make positive talk about the Italy model in the fight against coronavirus. Now, however, it is time for hope and rebirth, and in order to do this we must protect and protect the enterprises of the State. The liquidity decree represents the second economic pillar of the Government in the fight against the emergency of the coronavirus. After the Italian care, which involved all categories and economic sectors, this measure focuses in particular on companies and strategic sectors. The former, the enterprises, urgently need resources to cope with the fixed costs that they must continue to pay, even as a result of the reduction of turnover or the temporary suspension of the activity. Without liquidity, many companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, risk having to close their doors, despite a balance sheet and balance sheet situation that would be sound in normal times. There are, of course, a lot of jobs at stake. As far as strategic sectors are concerned, it is absolutely necessary to avoid that the crisis exposes to scale and foreign acquisitions companies active in areas essential for the well-being of citizens. That's why the decree extends and strengthens the golden power, a measure that allows the government to limit or counter these acquisitions. Continuing on the way of care Italy were then provided for suspensions of payments, contributions and withholdings. The measure that we are going to approve also provides for a large state guarantee plan for banks that finance companies. In order to provide liquidity to companies, thanks to an amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars approved to the Chamber of Deputies, these guarantees will be relaunched by 31 December 2020 and will cover loans of up to ten years (and no longer up to six years as provided for in the decree) to companies that do not have credit deteriorated to the banking system and that are not in difficulty for reasons independent of the emergency. Companies will be able to benefit from a pre-depreciation period of up to two years, in which they will only pay interest. The rates will be low and will have to be lower than those that would be applied in the absence of a public guarantee. In addition, more than EUR 200 billion was allocated to export abroad through SACE. This is how we are effectively protecting Made in Italy. The measure also intervenes on the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing both the financial envelope and the size of the beneficiary companies (up to 499 employees, including professionals). The fund had already been strengthened in the so-called Italian decree cure with a greater budget of 1.5 billion euros; now the liquidity decree completes its transformation into an instrument to support small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurs, artisans, self-employed and professionals, as well as to safeguard export and all those sectors that constitute the excellence of Made in Italy and the backbone of our production system. The total budget of the fund now amounts to EUR 7 billion. The bureaucratic procedures for accessing the guarantees provided by the fund are greatly simplified. The funding, initially planned up to 25,000 euros (but once again, thanks to an amendment of the 5 Star Movimento approved to the Chamber, the base loan ceiling has risen to 30,000 euros), will be covered 100% by the public guarantee and to access it will be enough to present a self-certification to the financial intermediary that certifies the interruption or the reduction of the productive activity because of the Covid and the respect of the anti-mafia legislation. The so-called liquidity decree provides for three types of measures and aid also for agriculture, which I am dealing with. The first two measures are those I mentioned earlier (one managed by SACE and the other represented by the Central Guarantee Fund for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises); the third measure, with an exclusive budget of EUR 100 million for 2020, is managed by Ismea and is reserved exclusively for the agriculture sector. To foresee a specific measure for agriculture is an important choice because, at government level, it means to focus strongly on this sector, the real driving force of the state. Ismea, in particular, can provide for the granting of funds - up to a maximum of EUR 200,000 and for the maximum duration of fifteen years of zero-rate loans - for agricultural holdings intending to restructure existing loans, which need to cover management costs and - very important - which intend to invest in the primary production and processing and marketing of agricultural products. To do this, we have set up, for 2020 alone, a revolving fund with a budget of EUR 10 million. It also provided for the simplification of the procedures for the liquidation of fishing aid through banks (this is what we are finally talking about in this sector for too many neglected years), as well as the conclusion within 60 days of the procedures for the payment of compensation for days of suspension of fishing activities. In addition, the national agricultural supply chain and the Italian agri-food sector have been included in the strategic sectors at national level (a fundamental measure for the revival of agriculture in Europe and worldwide). I would also like to mention the extension until 31 December 2021 of the three-year National Fisheries and Aquaculture Programme and the inclusion of newly established agricultural enterprises among those eligible for expenditure on soft loans up to 90% of the total. The 5 Star Movement and this Government are working incessantly not to betray the electoral mandate that was handed over to them by the voters. This measure is an example of how the way out of the post-coronavirus crisis is the right one, as demonstrated also by the number of applications submitted, just published in the Official Journal. By the end of April, the Sun 24 Hours estimated the sending of 100,000 applications for loan guarantees only up to 25,000 euros, now increased to 30,000 euros. It's a considerable number. Italy starts again: this is demonstrated by the data and we are at the side of the Italians. Phase 2 will actually be the rebirth of the whole nation's economy, a recovery that inevitably has agriculture and fisheries in its economic engine. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u21	He's enlisted to speak Senator Saviane. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, June 2020, it is almost astounding to talk about a decree called "liquidity" to companies, because - we all know and not sure because we are visionaries - that at the dawn of next autumn the country will fall into a socio-economic crisis perhaps never seen since the post-war period. A crisis already in progress, which some, most of the citizens, far from the privileges that blind others, already live on their own. I would remind you that the European Union has estimated a loss of 1.2 million jobs. The liquidity decree must be analyzed together with the two brothers, care Italy and I throw again, decrees that have the characteristic, moreover carefully studied by those who have written them, to be incomprehensible to the most and to bring interpretable measures, as well as great promises that do not find concrete both for the sidereal distance from the citizen and because - we all know - the financial cover is insufficient. Therefore, the overall vision of the decrees issued leads to an analysis that has as its first point time. As an entrepreneur and father of the family I cannot accept that at a time when the action should be put on the field in zero time there are companies in the closing phase, citizens who have not even seen the shadow of the integration fund, someone who has put himself under the "rain" of 600 euros and luckily or by chance received them, while most no longer even have the hope that after the rain the sun will come out. I would remind you that the Social Security Fund is only funded for nine weeks and that the tax deadlines will be in the near future: 17 August will end the freezing by law of dismissals. They think more about scooters than about vital chains such as steel and the car, and the moratorium on bank interest is due to expire. It's like being in a movie, a bad movie, where those who wrote the script had as their ultimate inspiration paradoxality, non-logicity and non-sense. And it is known to all that where there is no logic, there is no clarity and therefore there could be deception. [[Applause]] In these months of lockdown nobody has talked about the families and the damage, as well as economic, even psychological that they have had to suffer the same, of the children and the children imprisoned in the house in front of a computer to experience the teaching at a distance. This new mode can also be an alternative and complementary to the traditional training activity, but it must not be the "mode" unless someone wants to cancel the sociality, relationships and transform our children, that is, our future, into individuals who are not thinking and capable only of carrying out any commands. There is still no knowledge of school and university. I want to hope that the keys have been lost momentarily, even if the doubt that they jumped to not find them sometimes peeps. In this regard, I would like to express the bitterness for the sponge stroke that is being given to equal schools: an incredible measure, dictated by mere ideology and historical ignorance of territorial realities and - even more serious - by the attempt to erase the plurality of formation. We were, alas, accustomed to the non-plurality of information, now established in our country, and now we also have to watch these bizarre, to use a euphemism. In this House, where the citizen should be the protagonist and we Members of Parliament only through his or her own bodies, there has been a total ruin of the concept of guarantee over the last few months. First of all, I want to say that the cooperation, so much declaimed by the Government, has never taken shape: proof of this is the fact that no opposition amendment is accepted, except then to exploit even in a grotesque and clumsy way perfectly legitimate actions, that oppositions have the right and the duty to use. In short, we see a stronghold on positions that seem like axioms, a non-existent dialogue and an inconceivable distance from the citizen and from the reality in which he lives. In this regard, before entering into the merits of the decree-law at our examination, I recall the proclamation of a former minister on the fantastic provision of the scooter, in his opinion a solution that will change life. I wonder what people like me can think of such a measure in the mountains, in the province of Belluno, where the roads also have a slope of 17% and where people have much more serious problems to stay and live in those wonderful places, which exude history and identity. It will once again think that there are A-class citizens and B-class citizens. [[Applause]] and that knowledge of reality is certainly not the basis of this intervention. I therefore invite the former Minister Toninelli to take the route from Belluno to Alpago or from Belluno to Santo Stefano di Cadore with the scooter that changes your life and then we talk about it. [[Applause.]] Entering into the merits of the decree-law at our examination, it is disconcerting that the Government, as in the other decree-laws that we can call twins, effectively prevents the Senate from intervening, so much so as to incardinate the measure in the Commission last Thursday and start the debate only this morning, to bring the measure to the Assembly without rapporteur, knowing that the institution of trust will be used. Certainly this majority is much more interested in the opinion of the myriad task forces involved in the various ministries to respond to the crisis, but in doing so the Constitution is trampled on, preventing all of us parliamentarians from exercising the power that citizens have to exercise through their representatives. The most disturbing thing is the inability to instill tranquillity and serenity for citizens. Let us look at the real needs of businesses and economic activities. Economic operators, because of the pandemic, were obliged to suspend various activities to a different extent: the contagion did not affect them all in the same way. What has been lacking and still is not seen, by the Government, is the ability to give sure guidelines to restart. It is an uncertainty that wears off and hits the heart. I would remind you that the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which initiated the reopening of certain activities for 18 May 2020, was announced at a press conference by Prime Minister Conte on 16 May, but it was only signed on Sunday afternoon at 6 p.m. This behaviour forced the regions to prepare the ways of reopening these activities in a very fast way. I therefore wonder if it is a serious country that considers the reopening of economic activities, which have been stationary for over two months, as something that can be organized from Sunday evening to Monday morning. Perhaps the components of the mega task force believe that rebooting a restaurant or a hairdresser or beautician shop is as simple as pressing a switch. Let us also remember that the Government has told the Regions "you can open" and not "you must open" by downloading on others all kinds of responsibilities. This escape from responsibility is also noted in this liquidity decree. The guarantee relationship between the State, banks (or credit institutions) and companies is not yet clear. It is in the eyes of all the great confusion that invests companies in order to obtain funding: finance, and not money lost. I also remember that the municipalities and regions are in turmoil because of the lack of adequate refunds. Whole systems, such as local public transport and health services, are at risk of jumping. It is more important than ever at this time to give confidence to the citizens who have shown great responsibility. [[Applause]] , starting all public works that have been stationary for too long, deburring as much as possible and, above all, intervening on tax aid to companies and families most affected by the Covid-19. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u23	Senator Marin is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u24	Dear President, fellow Senators, today we are debating a measure that should have provided, months ago, responses to the companies affected by the health emergency. Not only does he arrive with a disarming delay, but he arrives incomplete and not satisfying. There are regions that have had to compensate for government failures, collecting the demands of the most damaged categories and studying effective and immediate strategies, also drawing on their own funds to support the companies involved in the current crisis. We want here to bring to the attention of the Assembly and of the country the heavy situation in which some regions, in particular mine, are found, due to the crisis caused by the epidemic. The Region with Special Statute Friuli-Venezia Giulia is a virtuous Region, a net contributor as it pays to the State more than it receives. In particular, since 2011 the Region has been obliged to pay to the State an extraordinary contribution which it has requested to suspend, for obvious reasons. Friuli-Venezia Giulia is supplied exclusively through its own resources, without transfers from Rome. On May 30th, twenty-six days after the release from lockdown, twelve days after the reopening of bars, restaurants and other commercial activities, the data of the Higher Institute of Health certified that Friuli-Venezia Giulia is among the Regions with the best results in the fight against coronavirus. Our small, but immense Region, pride of all of us Friulians and Julians, is among the territories not at risk for travel after June 3. Friuli-Venezia Giulia is also the protagonist in the fight against Covid. The hospital in Catinara in Trieste has invested in a new car that has the ability to make 2000 extra swabs a day. This means more quickly identifying the supply chain of the infected and preventing them from becoming unconscious vehicles of the epidemic. Our Governor Fedriga speaks with the facts: he has allocated contributions and incentives for more than 50 million euros for the benefit of businesses and workers, also simplifying bureaucratic practices to facilitate activities in this dramatic phase of war among the poor caused by the Covid-19. Despite this initiative of great help in the fight against the virus, the State demands from Friuli-Venezia Giulia 726 million euros, against a reduction of the revenues estimated in about 700 million. They want to annihilate the Regions and their virtuous autonomy, hitting them to weaken and create the worst of evils: addiction. The situation is therefore unsustainable and it is necessary for the Government to take measures as soon as possible to relieve the tax burden on the Region. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u25	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u26	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Decree-Law on liquidity, together with the decrees on care for Italy and relaunch, is part of that package of measures that the Government has put in place to cushion this period of crisis and lockdown. The health emergency has caused the economic recession that we are experiencing. The drastic measures of distancing have left their mark: they have closed sectors corresponding to 30% of national value added and 35% of total employment; the first quarter has seen a decline of 5%, and the second quarter unfortunately will confirm in negative this decline. We know very well that there are sectors particularly affected: transport (air transport minus 80%, motorways minus 50%), all cultural and accommodation activities, personal care activities, catering, tourism. Activities which, among other things, see a strong female occupation, which has been very penalized at this stage and which is likely to come out particularly penalized by this crisis. The Government knows this and it is for this reason that decrees-laws relaunch, care Italy and liquidity are here at our and the Government's examination to give timely and perspective answers. The recession has also had a huge impact on the labour market: more than 7 million workers in the Cassa Integrazione. The fall in the employment rate has also been reduced in relation to the impact, with 8% achieved thanks to the enormous capacity of our entrepreneurs and our self-employed, who have taken on a lot at this stage, sometimes even anticipating the IGC to the workers. However, it is clear that the measures and the integration fund, and also this controversial measure on the prohibition of dismissal, cannot be a solution; they are obviously a buffer. The solution is the real relaunch, which is not only the decree-law that we are preparing to discuss in the House, but are the structural reforms of justice, public administration and taxation. When I say 'tax', I mean not just rates, but I mean the tax-paying ratio. The solution is also public investment and a clear industrial policy directive, because without clear directives we will not have a way out of this crisis. The first of these, on which they have left us testimonials also Banca d'Italia and Istat, is to invest in female employment, which would deliver to our country at least 5 percent more per year, which is very valuable at this stage. Public finances have reacted well and ensured that these measures could be put in place, thanks to good fundamentals and European interventions. This must be said, because the greatest deficit (75 billion) that was done between the Italian cure measure and the decree-law relaunch, corresponding to 4.5% of GDP, would not have been possible without the derogation from the Stability and Growth Pact. I am also thinking of the ECB's investments, which have guaranteed, with the liquidity we are talking about now, the banks and which also guarantee the stability of the spread. Nevertheless, the picture we have seen in the DEF is particularly critical and the recovery calculated in the DEF, with a GDP growth rate of less than 1%, does not reassure us. So it is a situation that needs to be particularly monitored from the point of view of genuine restart, which are industrial policy measures and directives. The purpose of the liquidity decree-law is, just as its name suggests, to give liquidity and oxygen to our companies, and has been made more effective in the parliamentary process thanks to the approval of the temporary framework and the amendments approved to the House. Among these, of course - I make a quick excursus because they have been widely debated but it is worth talking about - the simplification of access procedures with self-certification, the increase from 25,000 to 30,000 euros of funding guaranteed to 100% by the state, the best conditions (and I am talking about the best interest rates and pre-mortgaging), the extension of repayment periods from six to ten years for funding guaranteed to 100% and from ten to thirty years for those up to 800,000 euros. I also remember the Carthaginian work - certainly not decisive - on the renegotiatations that now guarantee not only 10% of liquidity, but 25%. These guarantees can be accumulated for sectors particularly in crisis. There is also much more like the expansion of the audience: not only SMEs and mid-caps but also professionals, professional studies, third sector, sports, agents and brokers. In short, it is an intervention that saw the intelligence at work and that tried to cover the answer area. Moreover, it is not indifferent to all suspensions on protests, suspended financial bills and all reports to the central risk. All this was particularly important also because the liquidity decree, for the first time, gave a signal - particularly important - also to medium and large companies and did so with loans guaranteed by the SACE and the Cassa depositi e loani, but it did so also with the rule, in my opinion virtuous, on the golden power that was strengthened in the House. Certainly it is a decree-law that was criticized because it had a slow start. The grounding of the measures has been slow and is beginning to be effective now. Nevertheless, the numbers are particularly important because the moratorias that have been granted - I am talking about the former lege provided for by the decree but also, of course, of those negotiated always possible - have been useful to put in motion 250 billion. As far as requests to the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises are concerned, we are talking about 18 billion already put into circulation, 18.5 billion of SACE investigations. So let's talk about a lot of liquidity that is already beginning to enter the productive fabric. Very important, even if it is not enough, this decree-law guarantees up to 400 billion new liquidity, so there is plenty of room to do better. Those who say that the plafonds are running out say something clearly unfounded. Funding is and was essential. All the companies were asking for oxygen, they were asking for liquidity, so this was a proper measure. This does not alter the fact that the effect on the financial structure of the company's balance sheets is also to be seen, and this structure is, of course, weighed down because companies have greater indebtedness. This, too, was the result of the liquidity decree, passing rules on the strengthening of assets. I am talking about the revaluation of business assets, a particularly strengthened revaluation for the tourism sector, which is particularly in crisis, but I am also talking about ad hoc rules on the financial statements. The latter are very important because the mix of demand crisis, zeroing of revenues and fixed costs would have led to fatal losses for companies, if all the articles - 2446 of the Civil Code and following - on the SPA, SrL and cooperative companies and on the reduction of the share capital for losses had not been suspended. From this point of view, the rule is particularly virtuous, but it is a rule that buffers, it postpones, because we will still find ourselves in April 2021 to approve the 2020 budgets and on that occasion, of course, the node of the recapitalisation or the dissolution of the company will reach the comb. Therefore, from my point of view, it would be good to reopen a reflection on the decree relaunching what the doctrine suggests to us about the possibility of capitalizing the costs of the Covid period among the multi-annual ones, so that the societies have the possibility to spread them in a longer time. It would be a virtuous norm and there is also economic doctrine in support. All this is important, the rules are important because the productive sector, the real economy must be kept alive until the Government and we all give ourselves the opportunity to write down that national reform plan that we have not attached to the DEF and that is particularly important at this stage because we need a clear perspective. It is clear that not all reforms will be able to be approved immediately, but only if we give ourselves a future perspective can we recreate that confidence, that capacity, that union of intentions that can give us a direction that Italy is very important. It seems to me that for years we have been saying the things to do: it is worth remembering them, because it is about the reform of public administration and simplification, which, as we have said so many times, corresponds to greater responsibility, digitalization, drive on smart working, public investments, of which we have talked extensively about on the shock level; training, because the school - all schools - must return to being a place of excellence in training, where to reflect on themselves, learn to relate to others, even women, with respect; investing in the universities STEM (Science, technology, engineering and mathematics), because they are the future of Italy, to which women also have to subscribe and also to this need to make a great investment. In Italy women graduate even before, more and better than men, but not in STEM subjects. Then there are research, tax, justice and much more. The aim is to recreate widespread well-being, which is why we need a very strong rate of sustainable growth. If the priorities, in conclusion, are clear for a long time, what we lack is to try to get out of this virtuous - or vicious - circle that sees the super guaranteed basking in the "we have always done so," the disfascists basking in the much worse, the better, in search of a like; we really have to resume a direction of march choral and unitary for the good of all and of our country. Finally, let us entrust ourselves to those who know: I believe in the primacy of politics, so I do not praise technocracy, but only those who have human, technical and study mileage can lead us and Italy at this stage in a positive direction for everyone. President.Senator Fusco is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u27	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, that experience has been one of the darkest pages in history: the health emergency has put a strain on the whole world and not less on our country, one of the most affected by the epidemic worldwide. In the first phase of the management of the Covid-19 epidemic and the resulting state of emergency, governments of most parts of the world have put in place extraordinary measures, putting hard limits on the personal freedoms of citizens, constitutional freedoms, in the name of the most important interest of public health. In order to limit the spread of the health emergency, European countries, as well as other Western governments, have put in place exceptional measures, aimed at the containment of the contagion, also through a blockade to economic, productive and commercial activities, acting at the same time in providing extraordinary economic measures, aimed at compensating the negative economic backlash resulting from the blockade, with injections of unprecedented liquidity in their respective markets. In the aftermath of the umpteenth press conference with which President Conte presented the firepower, the Italian Government would proceed to an injection of extraordinary liquidity, I thought that our Government too, assessed the situation, had decided to take actions in the same direction, giving oxygen to the economy and the companies closed for reasons of force majeure. They believed this in many Italians, once again illusive that the Government had thought to protect them, safeguarding the productive fabric of the country, made of small and medium-sized enterprises [[Applause]] , already in difficulty before the emergency, for a structural competitive disadvantage compared to many other European countries. When, however, we had the chance to read the long awaited liquidity decree, we realized that more than a firepower was a cold water bomb ( [[Applause]] ). We understood that we were wrong and the same was true of the many Italians who tried to trust the Government. We were naive to think that a government that in times of ordinary administration has repeatedly shown its weakness could have the ability to cope with an extraordinary emergency of this magnitude. What Italian companies demanded was trust and support, simplification and speed; what they received is now known to everyone, to us, but above all to them: nothing, so many words, so many promises, but no concreteness. What is even less understandable and more difficult to accept is that even in an exceptional situation and of extraordinary social and economic uncertainty such as this one has been able to give up the cumbersome bureaucracy, which has further weakened the most fragile and unsatisfactory business support action. The total inadequacy of the Government has been shown in all its scope in the measures directed to the small and medium enterprises of the Country, that, I remember, represent more than 90 percent of the Italian companies, that they are the motor of the Italian economy and that they will hardly be able to get back in motion in these conditions, as the data are causing to emerge. From what has been announced in recent days by credit institutions, a little over half a million applications have been made by companies for loans of up to EUR 25,000 and of these not even half have been processed and, therefore, received and paid out. What is bothering you and which should, for the most part, be concerned is the very low number of companies that have managed to obtain the long-awaited funding. The small number of requests received is a clear sign of the ineffectiveness of the measure and a clear response from the companies which considered the measures referred to in the liquidity decree inadequate to be able to bring any benefit to their companies, aware that the costs and debts incurred during the closing period cannot be met by contracting new debt. The low number of requests made is certainly also due to the bureaucratic length of the procedures and the incredible demand for documents and certifications that have started demoralized entrepreneurs already vexed by the normal bureaucracy to want to try them too. ( [[Applause).]] Certainly the banks that have moved in different ways and with procedures and requests for non-uniform documents have not facilitated this process. Some have considered that they have to require additional documentation, in addition to those provided for by the decree-law, in fact hindering more than facilitating access to credit; others have even postponed payment to a later moment subjecting it to the conversion into law of the same decree-law, in fact remaining inert until today. They cannot, however, - as the Government has tried to do several times - be blamed for the failure of the measures taken. The legislative confusion created by the Government is compounded by the fact that the need to simplify procedures has not at all been considered: the result is clear. Not having eliminated the criminal liability of banks for the provision of credit is a clear example of how little account has been taken of the need to really simplify and de-bureaucratic processes in order to act quickly in support of companies. In view of all this, it is clear then that the total 750 billion of which the Government has filled its mouth were only imprudent and optimistic liquidity reviews, generated by the State guarantee for the granting of loans. Contrary to what has been done in other Western countries, the Italian Government, which still has the courage to paraphrase as a model, has decided, that is, to be a guarantor of possible insolvencies for the banks, instead of supporting the productive activities with transfers of direct funds on the corporate current accounts. Companies have only been given one option: to add debt to another debt. The power of fire, in other words, has been detected for what it is: a real deception. To ensure that companies are further over-reinforced, with the sole objective of ensuring that they are then able to honour the payment of taxes and taxes, in fact only postponed. The Government, once again, has chosen to leave the enterprises alone and this decree is evidence of it; just as it is an even clearer demonstration of it the decree I raise that, rightly, many have already nicknamed the decree delay, with a series of measures spot and ineffective that will have no benefit on the productive fabric. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u28	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, as you know, we are dealing with the conversion into law of the so-called liquidity decree-law, which is the second intervention in the strategy put in place by the Government and by this majority to deal with the economic emergency caused by the pandemic. In particular, this decree-law focused on our production fabric, companies, economic operators, which make Italy an excellence in the world as regards innovation and quality of products and services. In addition, the focus has also been on the strategic role some of these companies have in relation to national interests to be safeguarded in areas of particular interest. I am referring to the extension of the golden power perimeter. Since the first few weeks of this crisis it has been clear that, without a major injection of liquidity, many companies would face great difficulties, with the risk of losing market shares, jobs and contracts. This situation could have also affected companies with a level of assets and revenues which, in normal times, would have been considered as very solid. This government and this majority did not behave like they did during previous crises. [[Applause.]] They did not remain unarmed in the face of events; they did not abandon citizens; they did not abandon businesses, as, for example, happened in 2008, when no one was involved in providing liquidity to companies. Today, however, this Government and this Parliament (in this regard, I am glad to record and recall the positive ideas coming from oppositions to this provision to the House) have built a large system of state guarantees to allow companies to have highly facilitated and facilitated access to credit. That's what real entrepreneurs do: they use leverage, if they know how to do entrepreneurs. They don't want the lost fund. [[Applause.]] It tells you who, very modestly, is a very small entrepreneur. I'm talking about things I do every day. I can't hear about it. I'll do it myself. Therefore, credit was facilitated in the banking system. The numbers are known. I would remind you very quickly that my colleagues have mentioned 200 billion guarantees several times before me, of which 30 billion are for public and medium-sized enterprises. 200 billion through the SACE, belonging to the group Cassa deposits and loans, which, in turn, will be insured by the State. The guarantees, as is known and as has been said before me, can reach up to 100% of the amount required, depending on the amount, turnover and the number of employees of the company. The loans will only be granted under three conditions, which are entirely logical: that the companies benefiting from the loans do not distribute dividends for the next twelve months, that they do not buy back on the market own shares and, finally, that they use the financing for the productive activities located in Italy. As is well known, the amounts that can be claimed amount to 25% of the 2019 turnover or double the cost of staff always in the same year; these loans can be used up to a maximum of 20% to pay past debts. Of course, not all this liquidity has yet reached the target audience. The Commission, of which I am a member, has received the replies of the credit institutions to this question concerning the number of applications submitted, accepted and processed; the figure I am about to give you is updated to 20 May. Well, out of some 560,000 applications for loans of up to EUR 25,000, 51.8% were accepted or paid out. [[Applause]] , while 24 per cent of some 48,000 applications for funding of more than EUR 25,000 were accepted. These are the average data, of course. Going to look in detail at what individual credit institutions have done and stopping at the most significant ones, then those who have processed more questions, you can see how some banks (I gladly write UBI Bank, of which I am not currentist, so I do it precisely for the sake of truth) have received or paid 98 percent of the requests received up to 25,000 euros. Others, like UniCredit, have stopped (so to speak) at 78 percent, while Intesa has not gone beyond 30 percent. Then there is a really unique value, which surprised us all of the Commission banks: Icrea stopped at 2.5 percent. It is clear that this rule is not wrong or difficult to apply, but it is the organisations of individual banks and individual credit institutions that have made the difference to date. We therefore hope that those credit institutions which have so far had less good results will make the most of their efforts, to respond to companies and to meet the standards of the most performing institutions. We will take action to that end and we will prick the banks for that to happen. I would add, again in the area of liquidity, that the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises has been strengthened, increasing both the financial envelope, which has been increased to 7 billion, and the size of the companies that will be able to benefit from it. We are talking, Mr President, about numbers that have never been seen in the last fifty years, so we are talking about something really huge, which we are convinced will produce great results. With this intervention, the guarantee fund becomes an instrument of support for small and medium-sized enterprises, natural persons exhibiting the activity of business, arts or professions, professional associations, professional companies, agents and insurance agents and brokers. In addition to these measures, aimed at injecting liquidity into the production system, another 200 billion have been foreseen, which will allow the State to support and help the companies that export, therefore essentially to protect and fortify our Made in Italy, introducing a system of co-insurance, always through SACE, where 90% of the financial commitments deriving from the insurance activity will be assumed by the State, while the remaining 10% will be at the head of the SACE itself. The management of the guarantee plan will be carried out by the MEF, in agreement with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will therefore assume an even more important role in the field of foreign trade. As far as golden power is concerned, this rule protects strategic companies from any climbs that could in fact be facilitated by any drop in equity values of the same companies. The first was to extend the scope of golden power by adding to the existing defence, telecommunications and energy sectors, the financial, credit and insurance sectors, critical infrastructure and technologies, transport, water, health, food safety, access to sensitive information, artificial intelligence, robotics, semiconductors, cybersecurity, nanotechnologies and biotechnology. The second guideline is to extend the scope of the discipline also to intra-European operations; while, as far as non-European operations are concerned, government authorisation extends also to participations not in control, but above 10%. (18) (Pellegrini Marco followed). Making a final mention to the fiscal interventions, continuing a route already indicated in the decree-law so-called care Italy, for the companies with revenues up to 50 million and affected by a decrease up to 33 percent have been suspended the tax and contribution payments; while, for the companies that exceed the threshold of 50 million, to the suspension you arrive if the reduction of the revenues is of 50 percent; moreover, they suspend until 31 December the terms previewed for the application of the registration tax and for the recognition of the tax credit for the repurchase of the first house. I conclude by saying that we are convinced that we have done everything necessary to help our companies get back up, but we are determined to do everything necessary in the coming months to preserve our productive fabric, of which we are proud. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u31	Mr President, I am surprised and, in a few words, I admire the triumphalism of those who preceded me, because it is the obvious example of a virtual reality deeply detached from the condition in which unfortunately our citizens and our businesses are placed, from the precipice in which we risk falling as a country system. This is evident in the measure under consideration, which is completely ineffective: it is a measure proclaimed from the outset. At the Unified Network Press Conference there was talk of 400 billion for businesses, and this figure was repeated earlier in this House, as if repeating one thing meant supporting it. Unfortunately, however, if the false is repeated, the false is supported: businesses expect 400 billion, but there is a little more than a billion in the guarantee measure. That's 400 billion potential loans. Moreover, the fact that the measure is completely ineffective is also demonstrated by the fact that, in view of the drama that exists - which can be reported by anyone who has a friend who produces - only a small part of the production system required access to those loans and only a small part of those who requested them. This is all the more evident if we compare what has happened in Italy in recent weeks, which is the most affected country, with what has happened not in Germany, where 1,200 billion real (largely true) production systems have already been given, but in France and Spain with similar measures. The French and Spanish companies that requested the necessary funding, perhaps because the measure was better packaged, have already obtained them. Has it not happened in Italy because companies do not believe that they will survive and, therefore, do not want to get into debt further or because the measure has too many laces and laces that have made its implementation more difficult, starting with the legal responsibility of the banks? I don't know, but this is the reality and we regret it, because we look at the country system. Even Confindustria cries out for social alarm, speaking of 1.2 million unemployed in September, and other analysis institutions speak of 4.2 million places at risk. After, of course, the companies covered by the measure that prevents - rightly - dismissal, but in time, had to face the real conditions of the market, according to which in Italy industrial production has collapsed by 30% and gross domestic product will collapse at least 10% - according to the Bank of Italy of 13% - we are aware - as you should be - of what we will find in front of us in a few weeks, with the anger that will rise for the 400 billion that we do not see. Unfortunately, this is also happening with regard to expectations of European resources. It seems that in this country thousands of billions have already arrived or are coming, thanks to Europe, to which everyone can draw, but that nobody sees and that they are, for the vast majority, of the loans, that is, a further debt of the Italian State, of the companies and of the Italian citizens. If you make the Italians believe that you are flooding them with money and that Europe is flooding us with money, when in September they will find themselves fired and the businesses and businesses will close, what will you respond to the country? You have created and are creating high expectations in the face of a reality that does not exist. When the recovery fund was announced, in a statement of mine, I allowed myself to say that perhaps, if it had gone well, we would have received this year five billion lost money and perhaps the surplus of 82 billion lost money, for what we will have to give as a taxpayer, would have amounted to a maximum of 25 billion. I was wrong of a billion: yesterday the evening Corriere said that it will be not five but four billion and the surplus will be not 25, but 26 billion. Think about it. But do you realize what you have created in the Italian system, in terms of expectation, in the face of the dramatic situation and the answers that unfortunately will be late? Also with regard to the recovery fund, which we all hope for, the real resources will come in three years: this year will be just four billion, next year maybe they will amount to 18 or 20 and in the meantime the economic and social situation of the country will be dramatic. Please stop with the flag decrees, the announcements, the press conferences. I would ask you to stop asking - as was the case yesterday and perhaps also during these hours - how many amendments to this measure have we been able to discuss in the Commission and in this House? How can we ask for cooperation in the face of reality if you prevent Parliament from discussing and improving the measure? I bring you the example of golden power: an instrument that own Brothers of Italy, through the undersigned, has claimed, presenting a bill on March 5 in Parliament. Who asked for the extension to the banking and insurance sector? We asked you for it, and we claimed it for a month, and then you put it in. Who asked for the extension to European companies? We asked you, because we are aware, unlike you, of the situation of the country and the real threats that lie on the country. You did it in this provision after a month, but you did it wrong. In the amendment that I have tabled, which will not be possible to debate, I will explain to you why it is poorly implemented. While you have implemented a measure - unless you have understood why you have done it - that extends golden power to banks and insurances, there is an operation going on from abroad and it serves to achieve something that is not seen anywhere in Europe: to take over the control package of the country's banking and insurance system. You made a provision that was to be a shield and none of the Movimento 5 Stars spoke word or made a statement of a line on the fact that a Luxembourg fund tries to acquire the Mediobanca control package and consequently General Insurance. But then why did you make the provision? Even if you want to apply it, it's unworkable as you packed it, and you don't even listen. Why is it unworkable? The measure has the wrong philosophy, which is that of the notifier, while a licensing regime would have been necessary. It would have been necessary to have a preventive regime - it is better to prevent than to take care - also because intervention after a possible consent of the European Central Bank is very dangerous, in the face of such an operation. On the other hand, it would be useful to have an authorization regime which would allow the Government, if it so wished, to conduct the dances and give concrete indications, if one wanted to accept such an operation and not simply suffer it. To intervene downstream is in fact extremely dangerous, if the intervention could be done upstream. In addition, the measure attaches itself to a provision of the so-called Calenda decree, which provides that the Government, if it wishes to create a shield of the golden power on an intra-European subject, should adopt criteria of decision assessing whether the subject acts in league with a non-democratic state or terrorist organisations. But what European entity can ever act in conjunction with international terrorism? The arrangement was made for another type of intervention. To refer to that criterion means to empty of meaning and possibility the intervention of the State. I would add that the difference between European companies and non-European companies is such that it is difficult to intervene, because the control package in a financial and insurance sector when it is done? When is it over 10%, or 30%? On the other hand, it was necessary to equate, even if at an extraordinary and temporary stage - as is the case in the measure - European companies with non-European companies, in such a way that the discretion of intervention and evaluation was not so strong that it would make it difficult to intervene downstream after such a financial operation was launched upstream. And I'm surprised you're shutting up in front of what's going on. I am surprised and I do not wonder if silence is the result of incompetence or connivance. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u32	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make it quite clear that I will not be triumphant or catastrophic and that - on the basis of what my colleague Mr Urso has just said - I consider catastrophism and triumphalism to be two sides of the same bad currency. But I will want to be realistic and I will try to make common sense and calm remarks. The first is that, like many of my fellow Members, I hoped that the opposition would take a different attitude from what we were able to see in this House this afternoon: a more constructive attitude and a stronger adherence to reality. On the contrary, unfortunately, I have seen a renewal of the habit of parliamentary conduct at times stereotypically controversial, of pure opposition and with many mystifications, almost animated by the desire to say that for this country there is no possibility of salvation. At times, you get the impression that he's betting that things are going the worst possible way. In other times and with languages not of this era, there would have been talk of worseism. I think that the worst is as wrong as catastrophism and we all agree to try to look at the measures we take and try to improve them with a common effort; a joint effort to which many appeal and which we often do not see put into practice. I have heard in the speeches that preceded my many numbers in freedom, that I do not have time to refute one by one, but no proposal: this - in my opinion - is a serious problem. We need proposals that can be made in a very difficult situation, such as that in which we find ourselves, created by an unprecedented health emergency in recent decades and which is the source of one of the most difficult economic crises in the recent past, and not just recent ones. I believe that we should start from the awareness of the exceptional nature of the situation also in order to examine the decree that is under discussion today, that for access to the credit of companies. We should stress that it is part of a series of interventions that have been undertaken in emerging conditions to deal with the great difficulties of families and businesses created by the extraordinary crisis. We should not forget that, together with the decision to provide guarantees for several billion euros, in support of extraordinary liquidity provision to companies, with the problems that have been and of which I will speak and I do not want to deny; together with these measures and these choices, there have been other extremely significant ones that contribute to determining the context facing us and that we must be able to analyse as a whole. There have been measures for the moratorium on the repayment of the first house loans and the installment loans of the companies: a benefit to which they have accessed - I quote the latest data - more than 3 million people. There have been interventions to support the income of those in the pandemic who found themselves out of work: employed, parasubordinate or self-employed. They are interventions to which they have acceded beyond 4 million Italians, that they have been previewed for the month of March, renewed for that of April and with the decree I throw again extended to the month of May. There was also an important decision not only to support companies with easier and guaranteed access to liquidity, but also to provide for the use of instruments such as the non-refundable contribution to be made in June. This is the context in which we move: a context strongly influenced - I believe in a positive sense - by the decisions that Italy has helped to make at European Union level. Again, I would not make any lines of doubt, saying that we are going to be told that Europe is going to flood us with money. None of us narrates that. Of course, if we want to be respectful of reality, we must tell them that such important decisions to support the Member States by the Commission and the European Council, such as the Next generation fund, such as the Sure or Bei programmes, or even the decision to suspend the rules on State aid and the clauses of the Stability Pact and the extraordinary purchase by the European Central Bank of the public debt securities of the countries of the Union, have not been equal in the history of this continent since the Community institutions were born. This does not mean feeding unjustified expectations: it means simply saying how things stand. For my part there is again an invitation to the opposition, since we are faced with powerful instruments that can bring very important benefits to Italian companies and companies, to reason together on how this important budget of funds and appropriations can be translated into money to our companies and families. We know, however, that there are defensive and even propulsive actions to be carried out, i.e. to support development, to invest in public works, to simplify bureaucracy, to speed up justice, to research and technological innovation: these are all things that I believe would benefit greatly from a climate of national harmony. Finally, since we are talking about a decree-law that facilitates access to credit for Italian companies, saying that the work that has been done in the Chamber of Deputies, with the positive competition - from what my colleagues say - also of opposition representatives, in order to improve the text, is important and must be emphasized here. No one must wave their flag over the improvements that have been achieved, because they are the result of a collective elaboration and are for the benefit of all and merit of all. If we can extend the duration of the loans from six to ten years, it is a fact that benefits all parts of our country. If we can improve debt conditions, it is a fact that benefits everyone. I believe that if we raise the loan threshold from EUR 25,000 to EUR 30,000 with the 100% guarantee, this is also a fact that benefits everyone. These are all improvements that we have managed to achieve in the context of the debate on the provision in the House of Deputies. From this point of view, the data on actual disbursements, which have been mentioned by several colleagues, are also known to us and we are the last to be fully satisfied with how things are going. We would be blind and shortsighted, not just triumphalists, if we called ourselves satisfied. Similarly, we have not been satisfied - and we have said so - by the speed of the delivery of the integration fund, both ordinary and by way of derogation, by the INPS. We have pushed a lot for delays to be overcome and we have tried, also through the relaunch decree, to provide for those regulatory changes to accelerate the series of payments for the Integration Fund. We are pleased to learn that, in recent days, there has been an acceleration, a turning point is seen and the coverage of payments now represents a percentage well above 80%. Again, if we stop saying that no one has had anything, perhaps we would do a service, not to Parliament, but to the truth, because saying something contrary to the truth is of no use to anyone. As far as loans are concerned, 500,000 operations already guaranteed are too few and there is no doubt about it. We must therefore all call for an effort of national responsibility and for the fulfilment of our institutional duties. It depends on how the rules are written and we have made the changes that we have been somehow advised. There is a problem of unequal attitude between credit institutions, so someone shows zeal and diligence, and someone else doesn't... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u34	Please, Senator Parrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u35	Mr Parrini (PD). From this point of view, there must be action on the part of all the competent bodies to overcome disparities and to ensure that everyone cooperates fully. It is therefore important the role of the Italian Banking Association (ABI), the Bank of Italy and anyone who can make useful pressure for the necessary cooperation: it is a role whose importance must be stressed. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see this measure discussed in this spirit and with the ability to enter into the substance and identify together the steps that are needed to ensure that our companies and our families have everything they need, so that we can not only not be overwhelmed by the crisis, but also get back together and together return to walk, and then to run, in the interests of all Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u36	Senator Montani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u37	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, let us say straight away that the liquidity decree is a colossal hoax. We tried to work on this decree, here in the Senate, but we had very few hours at our disposal. The amendments, of course, have not even been looked at; we have worked on some agenda and in the end, it turns and turns around, there is no cash in this measure and that is a shame. [[Applause]] In truth, according to the Lega Group, this decree-law is a gift to the banks and not to the companies forced to pits for the emergency health. Tomorrow the League will vote firmly against confidence in the liquidity decree-law, yet another confidence. I ask the 5 Star friends if they remember, when they were in opposition, how they shouted and jumped on the benches when the government then put trust. How do you change! [[Applause.]] On the one hand, your chatter: promise to help companies for the pandemic, but it is not so; on the other hand, the real, concrete, tangible experience of so many merchants and craftsmen who are protesting vibrantly. And yesterday's squares, filled with angry people who would like to end this sad political season, no one confirms them. In five minutes now even a normal citizen is able to reveal the con of the Count -bis. Money to business? No: gift to credit institutions, which I expect from the members of the Democratic Party, because when they ruled, they always had an eye on the banks - maybe two - [[Applause.]] I do not expect it, however, from colleagues 5 Stars, who - according to them - should have broken down a system, and today they actually help the system to survive. Congratulations also for this choice! We discuss a liquidity decree-law that contains non-liquidity, but only loan guarantees. For days we have seen exponents of the PD and the Movimento 5 Stars on television do nothing but repeat to the Italians that the Government has made a huge effort placing 400 billion liquidity on the market. It's fake! It's fake! Play on the skin of all of us. They have only put 400 billion guarantees, lent to the banking system, which declares itself willing to provide this credit. This is not a sign of force of the majority, but a further slap on the Italians who have to fight against the bureaucracy and the quirky bank investigations that - some, even by majority, has spoken of the fact that the banks remain however private subject and are not at our disposal and of the politics - have created problems for all those who have come to the bank (few) and have found other difficulties beyond those brought by the pandemic. The measure in title is of 8 April last, and we are now to 3 June: almost sixty days have passed. And you think that with this slowness you can save the firm for three months? [[Applause.]] Only companies that for more than three months have not seen a customer or a bank transfer. It's hard. You were late with the decree-law cure Italy. You're late with the liquidity decree-law. That is the fact. So, addressing the government and all of you, I ask: was that your understanding? Has the decree-law on our examination been issued to provide liquidity or save banks? There is a devious inconsistency that is worth exposing, also because in the meantime taxes will be paid regularly, because we have not even had the strength to stop this process. In Italy a million companies are at risk - as the recent data of Censis say - and the scenario, therefore, is that of an epochal shock. They need loans now or they won't open again. The impact of Covid-19 was disastrous: 219 million turnover will be lost, about half of which will be lost in the North. The country's productive engine is at 60 percent of its potential and even the rebound expected for 2021 would not lead to the recovery of lost revenue. That's not gonna work. The engines of the business system must be kept on fire to enable them to restart as soon as possible and to seek, yes, the bounce needed for our gross domestic product - the watchword is liquidity, but not in the form and substance that you have proposed, and in fact, only projected because there is no liquidity - but we also need to ensure immediate liquidity for all small or large enterprises. I think of the Piedmont Region, which, in about fifteen days, has given liquidity to VAT matches without wasting time and without many practices. We have managed to help in a concrete way, but still millions of Italians and hundreds of thousands of Piedmontese are waiting for the integration fund. Maybe this government has to learn from what the Piedmont Region has done. All activities linked to the tourism chain are more in danger. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u38	Please don't disturb the speaker.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u39	Please, Senator Montani, continue. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). If you have missed it, I would remind you that tourism accounts for 15% of gross domestic product. We have not observed a single measure that is really capable of reversing the trend. Let me make one thing clear: if Italy does not reverse the trend immediately compared to tourism, we will have a crisis for years in this sector. The drama that is being consumed under the eyes of the Italians who do not arrive in the evening is before everyone's eyes. While many companies are about to close, still today millions of workers have not received the Cassa Integrazione from the State; there are more than 1 million VAT consignments that have not received the 600 euros. In total, millions of people, workers and VAT consignments have not yet received a euro from the State. [[Applause.]] How are they gonna live? The poor surveyed were 10 million; today it seems that they have increased by 40 percent: this figure is very frightening to us who are responsible people. Especially with regard to tourism, your attitude of total closure towards us has been and is embarrassing. Many words have come from the government, but very little has been done. You have rejected our amendments and our proposals, such as that of granting 250 euros of bonuses to those who wanted to travel to Italy and make your holidays, to give birth in solitude a measure that left the operators in cloths, downloading responsibility on them. This is a very serious thing that will not be useful to companies and hotels, which already have liquidity problems - which this decree does not solve - and which will see tax credit paid on them: something a little hallucinating. As some of you will know, I come from a land of lakes and mountains that lives on tourism and that, because of your inability, is now struggling with the greatest crisis since the post-war period. Our appeals for common sense, our calls for collaboration and the demonstrations of the square were worth nothing. After a few weeks of working with the operators of the sector, the League has officialized a package of proposals elaborated under the direction of the head of the department of the League for Tourism, Gian Marco Centinaio, whom I thank. They are facts and not words, like the establishment of an extraordinary fund to support the loss of income for all companies operating in the tourism sector; resources granted with a State guarantee as a grant over a five-year period, equal to the loss of turnover incurred in 2020 compared to the turnover recorded in 2019. These and many others are all measures that we would have liked and could share for the good of the Italians. Mr President, have I gone beyond my time? PRESIDENT. - No, you still have 40 seconds. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I still had two pages, but they put them aside, also because I'm practically talking to my colleagues in the League and to a few others and, therefore, it's not even that rewarding. PRESIDENT. - You always speak to Italy, through television. MONTANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Absolutely, Mr. President. I'm gonna finish. This is beginning to make me think you're businessmen for Germany and France. You sell Italian companies and excellence. You, colleagues of the PD, of the 5 Stars and of Italy Viva, with these measures betray the confidence of the Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u41	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, today we are engaged in a conversion which, in fact, is merely a reflection of the work done by the House of Deputies. Decree No. 23, the so-called liquidity decree, however, must be contextualized and framed in a process: it was published on April 8, in full lockdown, when Italy was the most hit at European level due to morbidity. The European Commission had already issued, on 20 March, the temporary framework under which it governed the conditions under which Member States could define the aid measures for companies economically affected by the Coronavirus emergency but had not yet corrected it, as it will happen in early May. It was therefore a particular situation. At the same time the decree-law must also be framed in the general process, because we cannot see it alone if we do not place it in a path that sees first Decree-Law No. 6 and then the so-called care Italy that actually, realizing two interventions - one on the enlargement of the integration fund and the other on moratorias for small and medium-sized enterprises - begins to set up the work, which is a work in progress. Here, from this point of view, since there are two eminent representatives of the Government, it is worth remembering that downstream of the care Italy would be necessary 38 implementing decrees and I understand that they have been made 12. I think this should be a stimulus in this concert to proceed properly. Then comes the decree-law on lockdown, arrives the one on the school and then, downstream of the liquidity decree, is presented the decree relaunch. This is the package. Government measures must be seen as a whole and have taken action to support the liquidity of businesses and the family. The first intervention is the decree cure Italy and the second is the decree liquidity: they must be seen - as I said - as a combined arrangement because, being the maneuver very articulated, it can be summed up in two strands, the first of which concerns the families and the main measures in support of the indebted families, with the strengthening of the solidarity fund for the mortgages for the purchase of the first house, the so-called fund Gasparrini. In addition, the beneficiaries are extended by including individual firms and craftsmen. It is part of Article 54 of Decree-Law No 18 and then widens the horizon and you get to the suspension for eighteen months of the installments for the contribution of the payment of the interest. The second strand is the group of interventions to support the liquidity of companies. To do this, two instruments are used: the extraordinary moratorium on outstanding loans from small and medium-sized enterprises and a broad programme of public guarantees on new loans covering all the dimensional classes of enterprises, with a qualitative leap that is part of this process of evolution which, introduced by Decree-Law No 18, is then considerably strengthened by Decree-Law No 23. The extraordinary moratorium, which applies both to small and medium-sized enterprises and to micro-enterprises and which also includes self-employed workers, allows intermediaries to obtain the freezing of irrevocable loans due until September 2020 and then the suspension of mortgage payments and leasing fees. Therefore, with Decree-Law No 23 we can say that the generality of Italian companies has access until December 2020 to financing with guarantee at first request provided by the State to intermediaries. The group of enterprises is divided into two branches: on the one hand, small and medium-sized enterprises, whose programme is managed by the central guarantee fund, whose operations have also been extended to companies up to 499 employees; on the other hand, large enterprises for which - and this is a substantial novelty - the guarantee is provided through the SACE whose tasks are redefined. We in the Italian Viva Group, when working on the amendment of the rule in the Chamber of Deputies, questioned the possibility of granting 100% of the State guarantee to a wider audience of companies up to EUR 800,000. In fact, we are aware - and not only for the reading of data, dry but significant, but also for the incessant stresses that come from the productive fabric and from our interlocutions - that the active world of companies needs liquidity and that liquidity is like the gasoline of a virtual car that concerns the business world. Similarly, in a discussion that wants to be as serene, useful and constructive as possible, we know that the time needed for the measures taken by the Government to become effective are different, depending on their nature. Some, such as those relating to moratories, are immediately so: there was a very high number of them, but, despite this, not implying complex fulfillments, we can say that the result was immediate and rapid. Moratories can be accessed by all small and medium-sized enterprises that have no impaired positions and are able to certify an important decrease in the volume of activity due to the epidemic. On this we also had an important opportunity to compare with the task force and a dimension was given that was then given the opportunity to deepen with the concrete data. The central guarantee fund (FGC) has the task of managing the extension of public guarantees and of virtually guaranteeing small and medium-sized enterprises in conjunction with Article 49 of Decree-Law No 18 and Article 13 of Decree-Law No 23 of 2020. In the face of this, it must be said that others have encountered difficulties in explaining their effects, as is clear from the results of the questionnaire sent by the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the banking and financial system to 148 banks operating in Italy, which concerned requests for loans, the relationship with previous loans, interest and commissions, requests for moratories and loans for real estate loans. Let us say that I would have expected more comforting results, but I shall be speaking on this in greater detail tomorrow in the explanation of vote. I would have expected more comforting results, starting with the bureaucracy, which, in my opinion, has not yet adapted to the emerging situation in which we all find ourselves. Our companies, which must compete with those of other countries, where liquidity is delivered very quickly and in which the recovery of production took place before, need all our support. Starting from this consideration, we are called to assume a deep responsibility, as a political class, and this I say in a shared, non-adverse way, at a delicate and important time like this, because we must succeed, in a team game, in improving the conditions of credit, in expanding the audience of those who access state guarantees, in simplifying procedures, in concentrating all our efforts to get the machine started as soon as possible and as best possible. Otherwise, what awaits us is the abyss of which the Governor of the Bank of Italy spoke last Friday in his final remarks: a decrease in GDP between 9 and 13%. Of course, I can say that something important and significant has been done and I say it with pride, precisely because of the amending action promoted by Italy Viva, along with the whole majority and also with a contribution of oppositions. This decree-law comes out of Parliament better than it came in and I think it is a good thing for parliamentary democracy. I do not quote, as others have already done, but I touch on the subject: loans for SMEs go from EUR 25,000 to EUR 30,000, repayment times go from six to ten years and up to thirty for guaranteed funding; I have followed a part of the debate while I was trying to get there on time, and I have seen that others have already talked about it, so it is not appropriate to repeat it. The important thing, however - let me say this - is that one of the most paradigmatic examples was the exemption of civil liability for the entrepreneur, in the event of an accident by Covid-19: it was a real battle of civilization at a difficult time like the present, which shows how it was interpreted wisely. I close by saying that the clear goal is to keep our country's production systems alive, to guarantee them a future. Italy Viva for several months says that it is necessary to start from the revival of public, private Italian and private foreign investments and from the simplification of the reform of civil justice: only in this way a country can be given a long-term plan, essential to guarantee a better life perspective for the new generations, whose future we are in part mortgaged just... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .of which we were forced today. We do not want to see those who must be more afraid of tomorrow being those to whom the harmful effects of the Covid-19 seem to have been more lenient, that is to say, the young people. We don't want it to be said that we are not a country equipped for them. On the contrary, we want to act today with a view not only to a difficult present, but also to a future that is characterized by the dimension of trust and hope, precisely with reference to the young generations that that future will have to go through. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u42	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks, I too, like many of us, have received requests for help and clarification from many entrepreneurs, traders, shopkeepers and artisans. Everyone has a common difficulty, we have repeated it so many times: the lending of the loans by the banks had a flickery and it was difficult to have, especially for those up to 25,000 euros. Then, after a few days, the results begin to arrive. Many of these same people had actually managed to have the funding to be able to breathe, because this is exactly what the liquidity decree served and serves: to give breath to a productive system that remained in debt of oxygen. It is a necessary, real, concrete measure designed specifically for companies and not for banks, in continuity with the previous Italian decree cure, which was the first lifesaver from 25 billion euros, launched mainly to the rescue of companies and workers and then integrated with the subsequent decree relaunch from 55 billion euros, in which are previewed 15 billion euros of contributions to lost funds and defiscalizations. Overall, therefore, we have already allocated EUR 80 billion of direct interventions in just eighty-five days, despite all the difficulties, unforeseen situations and, above all, the absolute urgency of doing everything right now. This liquidity decree wants to support our production system of small, medium and large companies. They are all interconnected measures that complement and complement each other. The decree that we are approving has required important work, since it allows the rapid introduction of liquidity into the system of companies with an imposing use of state guarantees. The decree-law consists of several parts, but it must also pay great attention to the resources that can be further activated through the system of state guarantees. We know that we are talking about EUR 400 billion, of which EUR 200 billion for the internal market and another EUR 200 billion for strengthening the export and made-in-Italy market. Another key part of the measure provides for the strengthening of the Central Guarantee Fund up to €7 billion for small and medium-sized enterprises for financing up to €25,000, then, as we know, increased to €30,000 in the transition to the House, guaranteed up to 100%. At the beginning there were difficulties for the obstacles between companies and access to credit, but already there are 2.4 million practices of moratorium on loans for a total of 250 billion euros, while the applications to the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises are 469,000 for a figure of almost 22 billion euros, of which 426,000 practices for about 8.8 billion euros on loans up to 25,000 euros. The decree-law also provides for the simplification of electronic invoices, the extension of the deadlines for certain tax obligations, such as the single 2020 certification, and the suspension of other tax obligations, the provisions relating to health and work, the strengthening of the golden power, intended to protect our strategic companies. Coming more specifically to Parliament's work, the text we are debating is the result of intensive work carried out in Parliament during these weeks. The debate was broad and the effort to improve the decree was commendable and very profitable, overcoming also the political and ideological differences to look, instead, at the general interest of the country. It is an improved text thanks to the collaboration between the Chamber and the Senate and also thanks to some proposals made by the oppositions and we believe it is right to recognize it. In fact, this must be the spirit necessary to face such a dramatic and unique moment in the history of our country. As spokesperson for the Movimento 5 Stars, I would also like to mention some of the most significant amendments adopted, of which the Movimento 5 Stars, let me say, can be proud. We have increased the ceiling on loans guaranteed to 100% from EUR 25,000 to EUR 30,000, much requested intervention, we have extended the deadline, which is also very much required, from six to ten years and we have expanded the audience of potential beneficiaries. We have reduced the cost of loans, lowering bank interest rates. We have allocated 100 million to the Guarantee Fund for the third sector and extended the conditions for access to the loan (I do not explain the details, because we have already heard them). In addition, with regard to loans up to EUR 800,000, we have extended their duration to 30 years. We've extended the Gasparrini Loan Fund to the first house. We have extended the audience of those who can request the suspension of the first house mortgages also to individual firms, small entrepreneurs, artisans, small traders, individual or family activities. We have solved, above all, the problem of access to credit, thanks to self-certification, made by those who request the loan under their own responsibility, which greatly relieves the work of establishing the banks. Simplification, therefore, is at the door. Let's just say she's here. Now, for lending by banks, the procedures are much smoother and the impediments are very reduced. This decree-law represents, therefore, another decisive step forward in the difficult process of rebirth that we are making. We are always willing to accept criticism, if constructive, and above all proposals. However, we must admit that a great deal has been done and that the results can be seen. On this, we can only recognise the commitment of the Government, a Government which has demonstrated its capacity, courage and sense of responsibility, including in Europe, to ensure that Europe does Europe, if it wants to be recognised as such. Just as it is right - it is obvious - to admit that there have been delays and there are still delays, inefficiencies, resistances and complications, to which we will remedy with the next economic decree, the fourth, which will be dedicated precisely to the simplification of procedures. Therefore, as explained above, it is right to give confidence to this measure, because not doing so would mean turning your back on companies, families and Italy as a whole. Of course, there is still work to be done, to dialogue and to listen to the real needs of our citizens, their desire to work, to get out, to resume the activities of a full life. And this we will continue to do, with a phrase in our head, that we always hear, but that is a true phrase: from every crisis, an opportunity always arises. Our crisis must also follow a great change, a turning point, in a word: an innovation of all the old system that we must leave behind. To implement this innovation we need new, courageous, revolutionary ideas. We, as Movimento 5 Stars and as a Government, always alongside the citizens, will accompany the country in this new path to recovery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u44	The general debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u45	Mr President, I would just like to clarify a few things. I was very impressed in this debate by the underestimating of the term liquidity and what is behind this term in the decree we are converting. It has been said that this measure is a gift to the banks. It has been said that, basically, it is a scam because it forces companies to get into debt Now, I would like to remind you that support for liquidity is the first requirement to be met when faced with situations where costs remain alive and revenues fail. All countries have used this type of instrument, an instrument that favours liquidity in two ways: suspending and postponing taxes; not already canceling them, but suspending them, as we have done. Secondly, by promoting access to credit, which is the title of this decree-law which, precisely, brings urgent measures concerning access to credit. This is the liquidity we're talking about. We may have used words in government communication that were considered excessive, but when we talked about hundreds of billions, we didn't say wrong things. Members have pointed out that, for example, the moratorium on outstanding loans has brought liquidity of EUR 250 billion. That's true. It's not fake. It is true and it is hundreds of billions promised and arrived. [[Applause.]] You underestimate the guarantee provided by the State, saying that we have only provided a guarantee; but you have told us, you have reminded us and you know very well that the fact that we can or cannot bear a guarantee is the direct element in relation to the fact that we can or cannot have access to credit. [[Applause]] Therefore, when the State guarantees with levels never seen before (100 percent, but also 80-90, which can be integrated with other elements of guarantee), it is not doing a small thing: it assumes a very large responsibility on itself, because, of course, if the subject is then defaulting, it is the State that must face you. This is a fundamental help, which is beginning to give its effects; I do not remember and I do not repeat the numbers, because already many people who have intervened have emphasized them. Was it all simple? No. Has parliamentary work been useless? Absolutely not. I'm sorry first, as a former senator, that this House couldn't make its contribution. This is something that I believe must be sought as much as possible to avoid; there have been various reasons and I do not want to remind them here. However, I must say that the House has been given a job involving all the political forces, so much so that - I am also addressing the opposition here - many of your representatives have rightly claimed to their political side the improvement of this decree-law. So something important has been done. One last point: not only liquidity, I agree with those who have pointed this out. We are faced with a tremendous, enormous economic and social crisis. Do we think we've solved it? No. We were reminded of the fall in GDP; but of course, when a large part of the business is closed for three months, it is clear that we have to deal with an economic problem that is not easily repairable and not quickly. We have to keep going. You will have the opportunity, the Chambers will have the opportunity to intervene on this huge commitment that has been made, with 55 billion debt and 150 billion balance to be financed. In there you can also find the things that you are rightly asking today, that is, the non-profit interventions, which have already begun, because the subsidies given to all those small activities that go under the name of self-employment (artisans) were grants to lose money; they were given in March, April and May, to professionals and to many other small subjects. With the relaunch there is an extension, with real non-refundable interventions, also for larger companies, provided they have suffered losses. They are subsidies and we must give subsidies; we are not talking about welfare when we are talking about subsidies for the self-employed, we are not talking about welfare when we are talking about Cassa Integrazione given to workers (because this is not welfare), and we are not talking about welfare in the negative sense when we are putting an emergency income for people who do not know where to go to eat. [[Applause]] If a billion (because of this) of the 75 billion that we put in these three decree-laws also goes to the people who are in the worst economic situation in our country, to say that the government is all welfare in the negative sense seems a little exaggerated. [[Applause]] And when the Governor of the Bank of Italy is mentioned, it must also be remembered that the Governor of the Bank of Italy has pointed out how crises, and this in particular, increase inequality and that 20% of the poorest families in our country have suffered a loss twice as much as that which has suffered 20% of the richest families. So a minimum of attention also to these small (but actually big) problems is necessary to be there. Of other measures in support of the productive sector we will discuss talking about the relaunch decree, where we will meet, as has rightly been mentioned, also major interventions for the most affected sectors, among which certainly and first of all tourism and the receptive sector. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u46	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 1829, of the conversion of Decree-Law No 23 of 8 April 2020 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u48	The Presidency takes note of the position of the matter of confidence on the approval of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 23, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u49	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-03-LEG18-Senato-sed-224.ana.u50	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 4 June, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.02 p.m.
