ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr GINETTI, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u3	The next item is the holding of questions. The first question will be asked 3-01124 on the pollution of the stretch of sea between the island of Elba, Capraia and Corsica. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u4	Mr President, the Ministry of the Environment has been engaged for years on the issue of micro and macroplastics dispersed at sea, also in advance of the level that the debate has taken on lately. This commitment is part of the international agreements, in particular those on the conservation of cetaceans in the Pelagos area, the pilot area of the Accobams Agreement and marine ecosystems, in implementation of the requirements of other international agreements and under the Marine Strategy Framework Directive. Already in 2007, in fact, the Ministry obtained the inclusion of the issue of the toxicological impact of micro and macroplastics on marine mammals in the Work programme 2008-2010 of the same agreement Accobams. In 2011 funds were allocated for the first scientific projects, with as the leading subject the University of Siena (highly qualified and recognized), monitoring and research oriented, aimed at the knowledge and scientific evaluation of the identification of standard methods of the phenomenon on a national and international scale. The results acquired during these initiatives, now behind in time, have more recently allowed to superimpose the map of the abundance of microplastics in the Pelagos Sanctuary, with the observation and sampling of cetaceans, to the maps of the ocean circulation. This has made it possible to identify the so-called microplastic storage hot-spots that overlap in part with the areas of foraging and observation of common whale specimens and other species of marine mammals considered - tursiope and stenella - and have also allowed for the first time, on a national and international scale, to achieve a series of objectives and lines of action, which are listed in the reply, which I ask the Presidency to be able to attach to the report of the sitting and which Senator Beginini will then be able to read since, by synthesis, being numerous, I refer to a reading of them. In fact, I want to get to the point of the actions carried out by the government. Therefore the existence of gyres in the area of the Pelagos Sanctuary, in particular in the stretch of sea between Elba, Corsica and the island of Capraia, is not only an event known for a long time to the Ministry of the environment, but are also well known the characteristics of detail in terms of composition and density of the type of marine litter in it, as well as its extreme variability in spatial and temporal terms related to the weather-climatic aspects as well as their repercussions on "sentinel" species such as marine mammals. With regard to the commitment of the Government, which is the substance of the question, in relation to the cleaning of the sea and the beaches it is represented how important initiatives have been put in place in the field of prevention, in which our country has always put itself at the forefront, adopting measures that ban disposable bags not compostable, cotton fioc, plastic material and microplastics in cosmetics. The Government has also played an active and proactive role in the implementation of the Marine letter action plan of the Barcelona Convention in view of the cross-border nature of the phenomenon, also financing specific projects on the prevention of marine litter emissions at sea to Mediterranean countries, such as Bosnia and Montenegro, within the framework of the bilateral agreement between the Ministry of the Environment and the United Nations Programme for the Environment (UNEP-MAP). As far as waste removal actions from the beaches and seabeds are concerned, as my fellow senators are well aware, the legislative process of the so-called saving bill for the promotion of the recovery of waste at sea and for the circular economy, which has already been approved in the House of Deputies, transmitted for the continuation of the examination to the Senate and which we hope will make a significant contribution, with further contributions from the discussion to the Senate, to the reduction of the waste present on the seabed as it aims, among other things, to promote the recovery of accidentally caught waste, to encourage voluntary campaigns to clean up the sea and to promote the circular economy, by means of provisions to allow the cessation of the qualification of refusal of waste accidentally caught or collected in the sea cleaning campaign and to encourage the implementation of campaigns to raise awareness of the matter. In the monitoring programmes within the Marine Strategy Framework Directive that the Ministry of the Environment has been conducting and funding since 2015, there is a great commitment that has been made for the evaluation of the quantities of waste of various kinds present at sea. Therefore, accurate and widespread surveys of beached waste have been carried out, investigating 58 areas distributed along the Italian coasts and placed in correspondence of river mouths, ports, cities and protected areas (to the answer is attached also a map of detail), on floating micro-wastes, taking samples along transepts fixed from 0,5 to 6 miles from the coast in 51 different zones, and on the waste present on the seabed. This action has been promoted by the Ministry since 2015. The surveys were carried out mainly by the 15 coastal ARPAs and organised by the three Italian marine sub-regions provided for by the Marine Strategy Directive (Western Mediterranean, Ionian, Central Mediterranean and Adriatic), always using common and shared operating methods through specific training activities of operators. The results of these surveys confirm, given to the hand, that the waste on the beaches is mainly represented by plastic and are mainly attributable to the categories straws, cutlery, plates, glasses and snack bags and that the concentrations of microwaste at sea are relevant as much under coast as offshore in all the Italian seas. In order to tackle decisively the problem, in addition to the measures already mentioned, existing regulations and those in itinerant, three measures have been developed which consist in the identification and implementation of actions aimed at improving waste management in relation to fishing and aquaculture activities, including the recycling of networks, the identification and creation of a chain of collection and disposal of accidentally caught waste by fishermen and also public awareness actions (I am also referring to the things already said on the so-called bill to save). In particular, however, the Ministry is preparing agreements for the collection and disposal of waste on the seabed in some selected ports. These agreements will involve marine protected areas, port authorities, municipalities, environmental associations, fishing associations and diving. Finally, in the context of the European Union, the Ministry is actively working to ensure that the ongoing reviews of the directive on port facilities for the collection of ship-generated waste and cargo residues allow an adequate solution to the need to mobilise the fishing world in the activity and disposal of waste collection at sea and how they are properly disposed of. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Presidency authorizes you to submit the text of the question so that it is annexed to the Minutes of the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u7	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive reply. This question was dated because it dates back more than a year ago, but this period of time allowed us to highlight a series of choices that our country has made during this year, starting from the theme of the bill to save. Meanwhile, the European directive has also intervened that will lead to the elimination of disposable plastic, so I believe that our country is making a number of important choices that go in the right direction and I am pleased to know, from the answer that the Undersecretary has given me, that the Ministry is operating some specific interventions on selected areas, with the involvement of the harbour authorities, the local authorities and the associations that deal with the protection of the environment and the sea in a specific way. I believe that the path we are facing is neither simple nor short, but I also believe that our country has taken a correct direction that I think can be an example for other countries facing the Mediterranean.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u8	Question 301574 on the right of bathing assistants to a subsidy for economic damage from Covid-19 follows. The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u9	Mr President, Senators and Senators, by this Parliamentary act, the honourable Member draws the attention of the Government to the category of bathing assistants employed by companies, cooperatives or consortia providing the rescue service to a bathing establishment, for which, in the view of the honourable Member, the possibility of access to the support measures put in place by the Government to cover the emergency Covid-19 has not been recognised. In this regard, I must first stress that the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, from the beginning of the pandemic, has acted to ensure the use and instruments of income support for all categories of workers, in order to contain the catastrophic effects that the serious pandemic has generated in the world of work. For these reasons, the Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 introduced a comprehensive system of protection, which includes, inter alia, the provision of allowances for self-employed workers, self-employed persons and employees operating in specific production sectors; in particular, Article 29 provides for support measures for seasonal workers in tourism and thermal baths. It is also true that, with regard to seasonal workers, INPS Circular No 49 of 2020 identified the Ateco codes identifying the activities, which restrict the scope of the protection of Article 29. However, it is equally true that the Ministry that I represent has promptly activated itself, in order to establish a similar protection mechanism also in favour of seasonal workers not operating in the sectors and activities related to those codes, such as the tourism sector and, for this reason, not included among the recipients of the allowance regulated by Article 29, but included, vice versa, in the protections provided by the Fund for the income of last instance, referred to in Article 44 of the Italian Decree-Law on care. More precisely, with the interministerial decree of 30 April 2020, the Ministry that I represent has allocated 220 million euros for the year 2020, from the Fund for the income of last resort. The article 2, paragraph 1, letter a), of the decree cited has extended the audience of the beneficiaries of the compensation treatment to seasonal employees belonging to sectors other than those of tourism and thermal baths, who have unintentionally ceased the employment relationship in the period from 1 January 2019 to 31 January 2020 and who have carried out the work for at least thirty days in the same period. The benefit granted, equal to 600 euros, by the interministerial decree cited and previewed for the month of March, has been recognized also for the months of April and May 2020 and for the same amount, by the article 84, paragraph 8, letter a), of the decree-law n. 34 of 2020. I would also point out here that an interministerial decree is being prepared, which provides for measures in favour of employees in the tourism sector, who have been in possession of one or more fixed-term employment contracts of at least thirty working days and who, as a result of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, have ceased, reduced or suspended their activity or their employment relationship. In the light of the above, therefore, there seems to be no residual lack of protection concerning bathing assistants, who work in the tourism sector under the supervision of cooperative companies, expressly mentioned by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u10	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u11	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u12	CANGINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank the Secretary-General for his reply and for representing me as the broad and articulated framework of the Government's interventions on the various categories involved and affected by this crisis. I have seen that he has reserved the last two lines for the answer to the question and therefore I find it hard to say that I am satisfied, to the extent that it does not seem to me that a sufficiently convincing answer has been given. The question was very limited, because we are talking about lifeguards. Those employed in the bathing establishments formally had recognized - although many have not yet received it - the subsidy of 600 euros (then 800 euros). Those who carry out the same tasks, the same work, and who work under the same national contract, but are not employed by bathing establishments, but by cooperatives, consortia or third-party companies, have not been included in the provision of this subsidy, because the Ateco codes are different and obviously have not been looked at the substance of the profession but the bureaucratic form summarized in the Ateco code. It seems to me that there is a problem and that the government would do well to take on this problem. The Ateco codes should be adapted, the somewhat bureaucratic approach involves problems involving entire categories of workers who seem to be, in the eyes of the Government, phantom workers. The unfair treatment that someone does in the face of the same profession and the same duties that others, who have recognized their rights, should be healed by a government, because it is a matter of social justice and cases of such obvious injustice I believe that they presuppose timely interventions by a government, because these are the essential duties of those who govern. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u13	Following is the question 3-00838 on the criticalities in the use to the public of the Royal Castle of Racconigi (Cuneo). The representative of the Government may answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u14	Senator Taricco has requested news of the state of the work of securing the park of the castle of Racconigi. As correctly recalled by the Senator, the park was closed by the director of the castle itself, within the framework of its prerogatives by virtue of the assignment held, in August 2018, following the fall of a tall tree that also caused the partial collapse of the wall surrounding the complex and the interruption of the municipal road contermine to said wall, affected by the crash, which only luckily did not cause damage to people. The decision of the director was also taken at the outcome of a phytostatic survey carried out on the other tree trees of the park, from which it emerged the need to carry out improcrastinable extraordinary maintenance operations on tree trees considered by the technician in charge at risk of falling and therefore dangerous for the safety of the workers and visitors of the museum site. In addition, emergency measures were taken to protect public safety. At the time when the director of the castle of Racconigi considered that the safety and viability of the park had been ensured, the so-called first ring was reopened to the public on 1 June 2019, that is the part of the park closest to the castle, having an area of about 80 hectares. The extraordinary maintenance work is still ongoing, while in the near future the site should be returned to the public usability in its entirety, at the end of the work. I would like to point out that the public contract activity requires compliance with regulations, regulations and procedures and the Museum of Piedmont has reported in detail on the work carried out and the procedures for their custody for an amount of about 50,000 euros. In particular, operations on 60 trees have been planned, calibrated according to the need: felling of trees at risk of falling, pruning, putting into operation of runners and cleaning of the paths, as well as further phytostatic investigations aimed at deepening the situation of stability and safety of the trees of the park. He is well aware of the public events recalled by the Senator, including a flash mob for the reopening of the park of the castle, promoted or however strongly supported by the Municipality of Racconigi and the Piedmont Region. However, I will not dwell on the issue, because a press release has already been published in this regard by the Museum of Piedmont on May 17, 2019. In it, in taking into account the works carried out and those still to be carried out in the park of the castle, the competent Piedmont office announced the next reopening, which then, as already mentioned, punctually took place on the next 1st June. I conclude by pointing out that the ordinary maintenance of the park has never failed and that the director of the castle has already been urged to monitor the correct execution of the service by the contractor company. As for the complete reopening of the site, it should be noted that due to the very serious shortage of technical personnel that unfortunately characterizes the Museum Pole at which there are only two of the 12 technical officials planned in staff, the park of Racconigi shares the enormous problems in the maintenance of all the museum sites pertaining to the Piedmontese pole. In any case, this Ministry, precisely to give a solution to the widespread and serious shortage of staff, has started an important recruitment plan that will affect the three years 2019-2021 and that is expected to remedy the difficulties of the offices that operate on the territory. This will allow the proper functioning of the technical office and in this way it will be possible to complete a substantial part of the works necessary for the conservation and security of the monumental park, returning it to the public in its magnificence. As for the relations with the other competent bodies, in particular the Municipality and the Region, the interlocation has always been active and, with regard to the Region, the Ministry naturally intends to respect and favor the exercise of the functions entrusted to it by the law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u17	TARICCO (PD). Mr President, I would like to thank the representative of the Government for the representation of the state of the art. We had asked this question in the spring of last year, after, following the collapse that had occurred in autumn 2018, rumors were circulating that the park would be set up and maintenance would be done. In the past spring there was a rumor that only the first ring and the bulk of the park would be left out. So there was great concern about the perspective of the use of the park, starting from the consideration that it is one of the most beautiful parks of the Sabaude regent, which has always mobilized huge numbers of visitors and played a very important cultural role, and that the reduced availability of visitable surface was compromising the overall image of the whole castle of Racconigi. I thank the Government and the Ministry for the work they have done, which goes in the right direction. I appreciate the fact, as we have been told, that the whole park will soon be open to the visit. I am here to recommend basically two issues. The first is that the maintenance and maintenance work of the park is not interrupted because, if what happened in 2018, it is because the level of maintenance had probably not been adapted to the needs of the park. The second question is as follows: I appreciated the desire to strengthen the staff for the management of the park and in this regard we suggested to evaluate the possibility of mixed managements with the Region, such as that that that is done for the circuit of the Sabaude Reggi. Now, the interest of the territory does not look to those who manage the park and the palace in merit, but to have the availability of a good that has an extraordinary cultural value both for the territory and tourist appeal. I repeat, the interest is to have full availability and usability, because it is not conceivable - as unfortunately happened in these two years and as we pointed out last spring - that a good of this nature is removed from the availability of the territory and citizens. I thank the Government and we will verify in the coming months that what has been announced here will find a positive solution.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u18	Question Time on the agenda is thus over. I suspend the session, which will resume at 3 p.m. with the question time. (The sitting was suspended at 9.57 a.m. and resumed at 3 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u19	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation and the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Ferrara has the right to explain the question 3-01720 on the Italian commitment to the resolution of the Libyan crisis, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u20	Mr President, Minister Di Maio, more than a year after the offensive launched by General Haftar on the capital and despite the Berlin Conference, the situation in Libya remains particularly worrying. The new balance on the ground poses, once again, the risk of a dangerous escalation which would have again as the main victim of the Libyan people, who are already in devastating humanitarian conditions. The situation on the ground continues to be made even more complex by the interference of external actors, which through the constant influx of men and material, in violation of the UN embargo, continue to stiffen the positions of the opposing parties. Italy has always been at the forefront of international support for the search for a political solution to the Libyan crisis and is among those countries most directly exposed to the destabilising effects, in terms of terrorist threats, energy security and migratory pressure. Italy's commitment to peace - thanks to you, Minister - has resulted in intense diplomatic activism towards the various Libyan actors, the main international and regional partners and within the European Union, as evidenced by the recent contacts of the President of the Council and the Farnesina with Libyan President Sarraj and General Haftar and, last, by his recent mission to Turkey on 19 June. As mentioned, the Italian commitment has been realized also in European context, where our country has secured the command of the Irini operation, aimed at monitoring the respect of the UN embargo on arms. Minister Luigi Di Maio, in the light of yesterday's visit to Libya, I ask you if there are any interesting news and what actions Italy has taken or intends to take in the near future to support the UN's efforts to achieve a ceasefire, also due to the recent reactivation of the dialogue within the military committee 5+5 and to relaunch a negotiation for a stable and lasting political solution to the Libyan crisis. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u21	The Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, Mr Di Maio, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday's mission to Libya was to give new impetus to a process that, even in the midst of the epidemic, had never stopped, but must take into account important developments. The counter-offensive of Tripoli's forces shifted the line of the front eastwards, along the direction between Giufra and Sirte. Yesterday's mission took place in a framework of maximum sharing with European partners: I remember recent meetings with my French and German colleagues. Libya remains, especially for us, a priority. Italy intends to protect its geostrategic interests, which coincide with those of the Libyan people, exhausted by years of clashes. To President Sarraj, Interior Minister Bashagha and Foreign Minister Siala I have expressed my concern that the issue of Sirte's control, considered indispensable by both sides, will lead to a military escalation, with the direct intervention of external actors, or that, instead of a truce, a freezing of the conflict and a de facto division of the country. We agreed on the need for an immediate and complete resumption of oil production, in the interests of the entire Libyan people. In confirming full Italian support for the legitimate authorities of Libya, I sent a call for moderation and I reiterated that the influx of weapons in violation of the UN embargo must cease. An essential role can be played by the Irini mission in this respect; Italy is determined to ensure that it is balanced and operates effectively and impartially, so as to monitor, detect and promptly communicate all violations to the United Nations Security Council. I have confirmed our willingness to assist the Government of Tripoli in demining areas around the capital: too many civilian victims have already been. I have repeated that the only credible path towards peace is an inclusive agreement of all actors, with the mediation of the United Nations. That is why we have welcomed the resumption of the negotiations of the Joint Military Committee 5+5 and we expect everyone's commitment to a ceasefire. My visit to Libya also made it possible to cut bilateral cooperation, particularly in the area of migration and economics. President Sarraj gave me the amendment counterproposals to the draft memorandum of 2017. It is an important result, which we held very much. Our requests for amendments, made following consultations between the Ministries, were submitted to the Libyans on 9 February. At a first reading it seems that the feedback provided goes in the right direction, receiving the Italian will to strengthen the protection of human rights. I trust that the Joint Committee will be able to meet on 2 July to negotiate the text. On the economic cooperation side, the focus has been on the main projects involving Italian companies. I reported on my previous mission to Ankara and Sarraj acknowledged the importance of the Turkish role for Libya, but he stressed with conviction that Italy remains an irreplaceable partner. In this sense, Europe's role is and continues to be crucial. Finally, Mr President, Libya is for us a matter of national security, but it concerns the security of the whole of the European Union. In this regard, we will be promoting a European plan for the reconstruction of Libya and the strengthening of its institutions, because we believe it is essential that a clear and incisive signal is sent from Europe to the Libyan people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u23	Senator Ferrara has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u24	Mr President, I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, which satisfies me. Above all, I thank you for your commitment to resolving this tragedy in full respect of the values enshrined in our Constitutional Charter. You have brought home an important and unpredicted result from your trip to Libya regarding respect for the human rights of refugees. In fact, after years of intolerable situations and the absence of answers from the Libyan side, thanks to his work and the regained centrality of our country in Libya, the local authorities responded positively to the Italian request to modify the memorandum on migrants. I would like to remind you that this tragedy originates from the civil war triggered by the insane armed intervention in 2011, endorsed by the Government of Forza Italia, Lega and Meloni. [[Applause]] A war based on fake news that devastated a sovereign country, with which Berlusconi had even signed a friendship treaty shortly before. I hope that these serious mistakes of past governments, which we also inherit in foreign policy, can serve as a warning for future crises, always remembering that war generates only destabilisations and those uncontrolled migratory flows over which it has speculated too much in our country. I conclude by saying that, although longer and more crooked, the path of dialogue and peace, as Pope Francis has reminded us several times, is the only one capable of pursuing lasting results. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u25	Senator Conzatti has the right to explain the question 3-01726 on the need for tax reform, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u26	Mr President, Mr Gualtieri, I would like to talk to you about tax reform. I am convinced that the recessionary effect of lockdown on the economy gives us the necessary impetus to face one of the most awaited and most useful reforms. The tax reform certainly deserves to be placed among the priorities of the Government and also in the National Plan of the reforms and you have recently confirmed it, but this reform, to be called such, needs to be addressed as a whole, as the Governor of the Bank of Italy has also reminded us recently, and not imposed for tax as today's political debate seems to demonstrate. The economic moment is really very difficult and we must use all the tax levers in our possession. We are not in the year zero, of course, many measures have been taken from the tax wedge, from the cancellation of the VAT safeguard clauses to the suspension of payments that have certainly given relief to families and guaranteed the survival of many companies, but none of these measures has triggered a reform and today we must do much more. To relaunch Italy a comprehensive tax reform is a very effective measure, because it gives us tools to set strategic goals, to shape social behaviour and also to trigger changes in the structural economy really deep. To be overall, however, a tax reform must include a range of actions, starting with actions to hit the blackout, digital transparency to reward honest taxpayers, from the putting on the ground of the family act to finally give taxation to businesses and families, from thinking of measures for businesses, to giving tax leverage to all productive factors, starting with the work of women and young people, who are those who, more than others, today express this attitude to innovation and sustainable choices. The general question, therefore, which I would like to ask you - in the question you have specific questions from this point of view - is when we begin to face a comprehensive tax reform and what priorities we give ourselves. They are clear in my mind: we have to work on the undeclared work; we have to promote the tax transparency of the tax payers that have emerged; we have to work on tax expenditure immediately to reduce the tax burden; we have to respond to all VAT matches, to the self-employed, and we have to make a fair argument about companies. The foundations of this are a relationship of mutual and renewed trust between tax and taxpayers. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u27	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Gualtieri, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank the senator for the question that allows us to address the crucial issue that the Government has put at the heart of its programme and which has also begun to take concrete measures. I would remind you that on 1 July 16 million workers will pay less taxes on their salaries as a result of the tax wedge and that the Council of Ministers has launched the draft family act, which provides for an important reform mechanism of a decisive component of the tax system to support families and parenthood. Of course, as is clear to everyone, the Covid crisis has interrupted the ongoing work on the most comprehensive tax reform, even if they have been introduced into the approved decrees of important measures in this direction and, first of all, as you mentioned, the choice to permanently remove all the safeguard clauses that were imposed on the budgets of the following years. Now it is a question of resuming this work within the framework of the more general project of relaunching the economy that the Government is preparing and on which it has also been confronted at the time of the General States. The strategy aims, on the one hand, to use European resources, to a hopefully positive conclusion of the ongoing negotiations, in order to relaunch public and private investments and, on the other hand, to achieve, among others, a comprehensive tax reform, which - as you have recalled - must also benefit from a general framework of greater transparency and more incisive simplification and rationalization of compliance, on which the financial administration is at work with important innovations based on innovative telematic procedures. There is, therefore, the issue of efficient collection. In this regard, I would like to say that we must also put our hand in the system of the inesigibility of the claims, in order to eliminate from the warehouse of the agency of the collection of claims for several billions of euros that are only nominal and have no concrete and even minimal possibility of recovery in order to free resources for the activity of voluntary and co-active collection and thus contribute to a progressive reduction of the tax gap. Work needs to be done on further development of digital payments (on 1 July certain rules approved in the Budget Act will enter into force). It is necessary to make the most of the information available to the financial administration and the most efficient use of data (as we have already prepared). Then, of course, we must work on those general principles of simplification, progressiveness and reduction of the tax burden on labour and business, which are the basic principles to which the tax reform that the Italian Government intends to introduce in the framework of a broader strategy of reforms aimed at relaunching the country's growth, productivity and social and territorial cohesion. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u29	Senator Conzatti has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u30	Thank you, Minister, for your broad answer, which shows us the way forward; we are ready to go along with you. It is an extraordinary job, but I am convinced that this is our great opportunity to redesign the future of Italy. Tax levers can do a lot to redesign our future. We're against tax intelligence and we're against tax intelligence by not confusing it with the emerging. The tax payers are known to the tax authorities; they can be treated with merit and have access to optional premium schemes to make all their tax records available to the financial administration, spontaneously and immediately. It is an epochal reform - I know we are proposing an epochal reform - that is really based on a new and renewed relationship of trust between taxpayers and tax. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u31	Senator Ciriani has the right to explain the question 3-01722 on the General States of the economy and the publication of a recovery plan, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u32	Mr President, Minister, in order to frame the sense of the urgent question that we addressed to the Brothers of Italy, it is right to remind those who listen to us that the 80 billion or so of budgetary deviation available to the Government to finance its urgent decrees have also been determined by the vote in favour, sometimes decisive, of the oppositions and therefore also of the Brothers of Italy. In view of this attitude of responsibility, let us remind you once again of the total closure by the Government and the President of the Council; there has been a fake dialogue with the oppositions and no willingness to accept our amendments, even those inspired by good sense. The Government has worked with decrees on decrees and trusts on trusts. Indeed, in the emergency of the coronavirus, we have seen decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers at the limit of constitutionality and we have endured this too. The President-in-Office of the Council pointed out above all for direct television and for the press conferences on unified networks in which he shone so that he could forget the mistakes that his government had just made. I remember that only yesterday President Conte had to take note - because the reality is stubborn - that the integration fund failed, despite the fact that the President of the INPS remains in his place. Many Italians have not yet seen it and many Italians have received it with an intolerable delay. The last defiance made to the Senate and Parliament was the decision by the Government not to communicate, but to make a simple information to Parliament regarding the meeting of the Eurogroup; this proved to be a proof of weakness on the part of the Government, because the President, intimidated by the fact that his majority could miss the call of unity, preferred to bypass the confrontation with the oppositions. This is a sign of weakness; we know it, Minister, but unfortunately the European chancellors and international investors who have to buy our debt also know it. Therefore, the question is: why only one hour of willingness by the Government to relate to Parliament and nine or ten days of States General? What's that for? What were the practical results of these meetings at Villa Pamphilj? What happened to the directions and program of the engineer Colao's task force? The final press conference ended with an invitation to cut VAT, which after two days has already disappeared from the political registers. Authors not right commentators said that the general states folder is empty and another famous left-wing intellectual said that they were the general states of fried air. Minister, I ask you: does the recovery fund or recovery plan exist? Will it exist? And when will it be made available to Parliament and the opposition forces? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Gualtieri, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u33	Mr President, as is well known and it would be good if there were a general recognition of an objective fact, Italy played a leading role in the definition of an ambitious European response to the crisis, which led the European Commission to put forward an extremely significant proposal that goes exactly in the direction desired by Italy, such as the next generation EU initiative. Around this opportunity the Government has decided to launch a wide cycle of meetings, consultations and involvement of all the social and productive forces of the Country, in which the opposition forces were invited to participate, who chose not to participate in important meetings, which were held in an institutional location, exactly as they were held at Palazzo Chigi. Despite this, the Government reiterated its call to participate in the discussion on the development of an ambitious programme to relaunch the Italian economy. As I said yesterday at the hearing of the House's Budget Committee, the presentation and discussion in Parliament of the National Reform Plan (NRP), the document that the Government will present and which will already gather elements emerged during the general states, will hopefully be the occasion for a broad discussion with the whole Parliament on the basic lines of a strategy for relaunching the country, which has a multi-annual ambition and scope and which intends not only to address the economic consequences of the coronavirus, but also long-term structural issues and nodes, which have for too long made Italy a country that grows less than other European countries, which has too low a level of employment and too high social and territorial inequalities, as well as an inadequate level of investment. Around this opportunity we relaunch the invitation to all responsible forces to contribute to the definition of an ambitious plan that Italy intends to present together with the Update Note to the DEF (NADEF) in September, which will define in detail the investments and reforms that Italy intends to launch in the framework of the European next generation EU programme, which instead will lead before the summer to develop the broader framework of the reform framework that the Government intends to implement in the legislative horizon. The majority indicated a clear orientation also in the preparation of that framework of a recovery plan which was presented to all social and territorial forces. We are finalizing the work that you will find, as I said, in the PNR part of your concrete document submitted to Parliament. Let us extend the invitation to all the forces that have at heart the future of the country, and not the useless polemics that do not interest the citizens, to contribute with their ideas to the definition of an ambitious plan that lives up to the challenges that Italy has before it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u34	Senator Ciriani has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u35	Mr President, unfortunately, the answer does not surprise me and disappoints me because I have the feeling that the Minister is not so excited about defending the general states, but this is my nasty assumption. The fact is that, once again, we record vague and generic promises, refer to September and summer, but Italy, our country dramatically needs urgent answers, Minister. We do not listen, we do not perceive a precise list of clear and distinct ideas, of courageous choices to be made today, immediately, but again, unfortunately, we will see and make. Yesterday, the International Monetary Fund, as the Minister knows much better than I do, made unfortunately catastrophic forecasts for our country in terms of production and unemployment. You understand that we cannot wait any longer, nor can we tolerate the footbridges at Villa Pamphilj replacing politics, choices and courage. We would like to know what this Government wants to do, when it intends to do so, with how many resources, with what resources, whether there will be money coming from the European Union or will only be promises once again and how long it intends to carry out these urgent programmes. We've heard too many announcements. As a position, as a Brothers Group in Italy, we are once again available for comparison in the institutional fora where we will do our duty as always. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u36	Senator Laforgia has the right to explain the question 3-01721 on the reform of income support instruments, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u37	Mr President, Minister, when we talk about the material conditions of people, about the gigantic social issue that is likely to fall on our country, one premise is an obligation: there is no policy that can guarantee the dignity of people who do not go through policies that ensure the same work and employment, because work remains the fundamental element of the social identity of people and work is created with policies for development, industrial policies, policies for employment. There is no doubt, Minister, that we have entered a stage in the history of the world - I say this with a certain modesty since I am speaking to a historian - in which we have understood, and we have understood this dramatically also because of the pandemic that has crossed us, that it is possible to destroy that work from one day to the next, that people can lose that work in a very short time, that that trait of precariousness, of intermittentness and fragility of many working careers risks becoming dramatically chronic and, in view of the multiplicity of professional figures that respond to a multiplicity of contractual configurations, there is today a multiplicity of measures and instruments of support for income, of cushions that - alas - risk, precisely because of fragmentation, to put on the ground an element of inequality and inequality and even to increase the pre-existing gaps. If we make the list of categories - which then means people - that risk not being included in the wide meshes of the existing shock absorbers, despite the great efforts that already this Government is putting in place starting from the first decrees to counter the emergency, we should think of the precarious, the exodated, the seasonal workers of the social cooperatives, that world that has mobilized in these weeks of the workers of the art, the music, the culture and the show, who ask for protection and support to the income in a sort of paradox - let me say it, Minister - so on the one hand, often, all, transversally to the political forces, we consume the rhetoric of the beauty of our country and, on the other hand, we do not take care of who that beauty values daily with their work. I mean, I think it's time to start drying the instruments that already exist and imagine - I think this should be the Government's effort - a kind of universal shock absorber. I do not hang myself on labels, but we have entered a phase in which this must be the novelty of the new time. We have to confront ourselves on this issue immediately, with the measures we are already dealing with in these weeks. The object of our question is what the government is thinking about on this very ground.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u38	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Gualtieri, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u39	Mr President, Senator Laforgia addresses a very important issue which naturally falls within the direct competence of the Ministry of Labour but which, because of its scope, invests and interests the whole Government and the whole majority. Correctly he recalled that in the face of an unprecedented crisis such as that caused by coronavirus, the Government has worked with extraordinary tools to ensure, in the specificity and diversity of instruments, the universality of a principle, that of supporting all workers through the integration fund for all types of employees and new tools such as allowances for self-employed parasubordinate workers and other types. The emergency income has also been established, in order to compensate for particular situations, not covered by a purely significant and large universal instrument, such as the income of citizenship, the New Social Employment Insurance (Naspi) has been strengthened and therefore attempts have been made to address, in an emergency situation, the need and the need, as we have said, to strive and to do the utmost to not leave anyone behind. It is quite clear that this experience, but also the more general changes to which the Senator referred, pose the theme not only of addressing the emergency situation, to return simply to the status quo ante, but also of addressing, on this ground, challenging and ambitious reflections on the reform and rationalization of the instruments we have. By "universal" we mean not income, but coverage, that is, the need to guarantee everyone a coverage, through public instruments. In this context, the distinction between anti-poverty instruments and instruments linked to unemployment and active labour market policies should be clarified. Among the points discussed in the General States and the recovery plan that the Government is drawing up is exactly the theme that the Senator has put in question, in order to adequately address which, with all the evidence, cannot be enough three minutes. I therefore think that he has put an important issue and I therefore call on the forces of the majority first of all, but all of Parliament, to face up to the challenge to which he referred, which the Government is committed to drawing lessons from a time that has changed, in order to relaunch, in new forms, the principles of universality of welfare and support for work. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u40	I give the floor to Senator Laforgia to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u41	Mr Minister, your answer indicates that the Government is attentive to the issue we have raised and is working exactly in the direction we want. There has been a debate, which in the past is often echoed in this House too, which now, after what has happened in recent months, would seem even surreal. When different subjects put the theme of a universal instrument, such as universal income, about which large countries are talking at this time - as we and perhaps even larger than we - the exception that was advanced was that it could not be talked about, because any form of universal income support is a kind of disincentive to the search for a job. However, we have understood that this work can be destroyed at any moment and that it takes time to rebuild it, and so I think that some taboos must be removed, as I think that the measures we are dealing with and which we are dealing with must be informed by a principle, that is, the maximum conditionality of measures for companies - businesses must be given a lot of money, but we must bind them to the defence of the occupational perimeter and investment: this is the condition that we have to put - and the maximum universality of measures for people, so that conditionality is not an obstacle to accessing those measures. It is news of these days that the famous phrase "whatever it takes," pronounced by Mario Draghi, former Governor of the European Central Bank, has entered the digital lexicon of the Treccani. I would very much like, Minister, that from this majority and from this experience of Government we should build a state that would throw its "whatever it takes" to people, which means preventing people from falling into the void, when that vacuum was to be determined. It would be a fact of civilization, a fact of dignity and, surely, an element of modernization of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u42	Senator D'Alfonso has the right to explain the question 3-01723 on the prospects for tax reform and its characteristics, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u43	Mr President, Minister, we know that the pandemic was not just a crisis, but a real breakup of civilizations. We have had a problem, concerning our business system, which "cubes" these numbers: out of five and 300,000 small and medium-sized enterprises, which gave rise to 15 million people employed, one million small and medium-sized enterprises are at risk, with three million job opportunities. We have had the opportunity to put in place important resources both as a country system and in the competitive dialogue with Europe: 80 billion already in operation and those that are further employable. We have priorities in addition to those prior to the crisis and the breakup of civilizations. We need to make it easy for businesses to live; we need to put in place an infrastructure plan that is not a convention plan, but is capable of improving the lives of people, businesses and territories; we need to make sure that we free up the income from work as far as the tax burden is concerned; we need to rebuild and rebuild the public budget of our country system. There is a need for an organic reform of the tax and tax system, as stated yesterday by the Court of Auditors summit, both in the part of the General Prosecutor and in the part of the President of the reunited sections, who stated that there is an urgent need for tax and tax reform. We have two numbers that lead us even more, knowing that work is underway and needs to be strengthened, supporting its initiative: EUR 110 billion in tax evasion and EUR 210 billion in the shadow economy. He said earlier: we have a credit written in the accounting documents, as far as the Revenue-Response Agency is concerned, amounting to EUR 950 billion. He said that he wanted to take on responsibility, as the Director-General of the Revenue Agency has also requested, to reduce this credit to one eighth, which actually amounts to EUR 110 billion. We must work to ensure that the 800 laws and rules that concern our tax system know a simplification, a reductio ad unum, so that the tax system is a function for the fulfilment of Article 53 of our Constitutional Charter. We must also ensure that the EUR 47 million written in the current budget law, in order to provide additional human and technological resources for our tax agencies, are put into production immediately, because we need to strengthen the machine, precisely to put in place the problems that have been reported, and the budget law in this regard is a strong point of reference. It is necessary, Minister, to know the initiatives it will take to ensure that with that article 71 of the decree cure Italy, in which for the first time there is talk of tax rewards, those who fulfil the tax obligations in this season of break, pandemic and crisis of civilization must be recognized and rewarded, just as those who do not make it. However, those who fulfil and give rise to the obligation of Article 53 must be recognized for their virtues, because on this too a national order is founded and lives. We must create the single European tax area, including in order to act in Europe with respect, for example, to the web tax. We know that data and information are structural elements for further strength to our budgetary assets. Compared to all this, I ask you what are the further initiatives that will also activate to realize, for example, the extraordinary measures of the decree throw again, like the ecobonus, that will generate a shipbuilding spread throughout our system Country. There is a need for simplicity, ease and a pact of trust between taxpayer citizen, enterprise and order. We know that we can do and know the will and motivation: let's get together and reveal the times for this extraordinary operation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u44	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Gualtieri, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u45	I thank Senator d'Alfonso, who allows me to return to a crucial issue such as tax and tax reform and also the role of financial administration, to make concrete that pact of simplicity which he referred to and a model of cooperation with the taxpayer based on transparency, simplification, rationalisation of compliance and quality of services. From this point of view, I would also like to stress the commitment that the Revenue Agency is taking in this direction, even temporarily - and this is an element of the premium to which it referred - by transforming itself into an exit agency, with a level of efficiency worthy of note, since yesterday the transfers of non-refundable contributions started, in advance on the road map, on the basis of a simple and effective procedure, which is proving to be very positive. Therefore, a financial administration that invests in innovation and digitisation can strengthen its positive relationship with citizens and also carry out new tasks in an emergency phase that may then, from the point of view of technology and practices, become tools for future reforms. I have already made reference - as it has remembered, from the point of view of the efficiency of the collection - to the question of the inesigibility of the credits and to the concrete requirement, that the Government intends to face, of the elimination from the warehouse of the Agency of these only nominal creditor practices, in order instead to strengthen the ability to collection, where in fact there are margins in order to recover taxable for the coffers of the State. More generally, the objective is to create a favorable climate business in order to recognize greater competitiveness to Italian companies and to promote the attractiveness of investments of the enterprises in the national territory. It is therefore a wide set of measures that must be addressed in the context of a more general reform of a fairer tax, with respect to which - and here I complement the response to Senator Conzatti - there is the theme of the revisitation of tax expenditures, a rationalization of which, from a structural point of view, can free up very important resources for a reduction in rates. Finally, he referred to a very significant measure that the Government has launched in the decree-law relaunch, which is that of the earthquakebonus and ecobonus at 110%, and also to the unprecedented development of the issue of the reliability of the tax credit and the discount in invoice. As you know, the government is waiting for parliamentary work, which is committed to strengthening the measure. Before moving on to its implementation, it seemed to us correct, given Parliament's request to further strengthen the measure, wait for the outcome of the parliamentary debate, and then make operational a measure that we hope will make a significant contribution, not only to the revival of the economy, but also to its qualification from the point of view of environmental sustainability, energy efficiency and the ability to reduce seismic risk. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u46	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Missa for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u47	Mr Minister, the precise answers you have given us are absolutely acceptable, together with the actions indicated by your Government. It has indicated the fundamental pillars of fiscal reform and I believe that it is also very important to recognize the new role that the Revenue Agency has taken on a particular importance, because it represents, for efficiency and simplicity, the fundamental condition for establishing a new relationship of trust between institutions and citizens precisely in the simplification, speed and efficiency of our country's system. We are absolutely aware of the need for a new tax reform as a fundamental pillar to accompany a new idea of the economic development of our country. It must be based on principles of equity and progressivity; it must restore a more positive and more profitable relationship in relations between the State and its citizens; it must be inspired by processes of rationalization and efficiency. We have already demonstrated this: in a short time, we have handed over behind us, almost as wrecks of history, both the fiscal condons and a sovereignist vision of States that oppose the European dimension. We have a great opportunity before us, a new face of Europe, not only in quantitative terms for the resources available. That is, we have the conditions to emerge from a narrative to the past, also thanks to the measures introduced to overcome the emergency, and to build an economic dimension for the future of our country. In all this there is also a great opportunity, because today Europe has a new face, determined by the efficiency and effectiveness of the investments of the European Central Bank and by the numerous financial instruments at our disposal, even before the four-year plans for European indication and the recovery fund. I therefore believe that this is an extraordinary opportunity to ensure that the new tax reform can be a fundamental pillar in ensuring speed, efficiency and also reward for fiscal fidelity, which inevitably represents a condition to facilitate and facilitate new investments by companies, guiding them towards the future, the green economy and the digital economy, which is fundamental to building new economic development. I believe that this needs an adequate tax reform, which speeds up and produces new investments for the future of our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u48	Senator Giammanco has the right to explain the question 3-01724 on the financing of infrastructure through European funds, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u49	Mr President, Minister, it is sadly known that the Mezzogiorno suffers from a serious lack of infrastructure and that this discomfort is one of the main causes of the gap between it and the rest of the country. The current economic framework makes this disparity even more worrying: a real recovery plan is needed to ensure that the whole country leaves and the infrastructure of the South is an essential condition for this to happen. I will never tire of repeating that our economy will never be able to rise again without the South, Minister, and without the exploitation of its enormous potential. If the government does not start growth in the South capable of self-supporting, the country will not come out of the ford. In this context, the bridge over the Strait of Messina, today as never before, represents a strategic work, which would guarantee not only the territorial continuity between Sicily and the rest of Italy, but also that between our country and the rest of Europe, bringing great advantages in terms of economic and social development, as well as of image. Members of the majority and representatives of the government, such as Minister De Micheli, just a week ago in this House showed interest in the work. At last it is beginning to understand that infrastructures of such magnitude would allow not only to create new jobs and to reactivate the economic fabric, but also to attract investment, transforming the crisis into an opportunity for development. The bridge is also a powerful tourist attraction: let's think about the number of tourists attracted by the most spectacular and evocative bridges in the world. Iconic is the bridge over the Strait of Akashi, Japan: 22 million tourists a year pay a ticket of 27 euros to admire the breathtaking view that you can enjoy from its towers. I assure you, Minister, that the view from the top of the Strait of Messina would be equally spectacular. For all these reasons, Forza Italia has always supported the importance of the bridge. The last Berlusconi Government had started the realization of the project, blocked then by the Monti Government, and this decision is costing several million to the Italians, an unnecessary expenditure of public money, that we could have invested in a profitable way and that instead we are throwing to the wind. The European Union, as you know, has repeatedly urged Italy to close the infrastructure gap between North and South, until a severe warning for the lack of investment in the South. Today, with the recovery fund, we have the opportunity to really help this country. I therefore ask you, Minister, if the resources made available by the recovery fund can also be used to carry out works such as the bridge over the Strait of Messina and if in the plan of the reforms preparatory to the allocation of the resources of that fund will insert a chapter dedicated to the works necessary for the development of the Mezzogiorno and the islands. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Gualtieri, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u50	Mr President, the senator deals with a subject which is not new in the Italian debate: here I have an article in the 'Corriere della sera' of 1985, which headlined the green light at the bridge over the Strait and announced the completion of the work in 1995; history then we know it. On the subject, one of the fundamental problems arose from the fact that a work of this magnitude and also of this potential for the development of Sicily and the Mezzogiorno naturally requires a rigorous assessment of economic and financial sustainability in relation to the up-to-date cost of the final project. The original cost of the project to which you refer amounted to almost EUR 6 billion, to which were added more than 4 compensatory works required by the territories. The total cost of the work in 2012 did not therefore allow its financial sustainability in the then contractually planned mode. For these reasons, the project did not take place and Decree-Law No 179 of 18 October 2012 provided for the liquidation of the company, if it had been verified, in the Interministerial Committee for Economic Planning (CIPE), the impossibility also of alternative routes of realization of parts of the overall project. As he recalled, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport is now assessing the viability of the construction of the bridge as part of a stringent project review that drastically reduces the cost of the final project, also in order to ensure economic and financial sustainability. Account will be taken of the results of a detailed cost-benefit analysis and of the public debate to which the project will be submitted, also evaluating the repercussions in terms of employment, environmental and transport in the light of the infrastructure investments already planned in the Sicilian territory and of all the legal profiles connected to the ongoing litigation with the actuator subject and the general contractor. These assessments are, of course, conducive to the detection of possible sources of funding, with respect to which, of course, the new European resources are a source on which an assessment should be made. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u51	Senator Giammanco has the power to intervene in replica for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u52	Minister, thank you for your reply, but we think it is too general. We would have expected a more precise one, because - in our opinion - the project would be fully part of those investments necessary to relaunch, today more than ever, our economy. We can overcome the resistance of the frugal countries only by presenting credible and detailed projects to the European Commission to modernise the country, within the framework of the plan for recovery and resilience, as you know. Let's not waste time: let's do it now and avoid the mistakes of the past. To the detractors of the work, who, to justify their no, bring the need to equip the South first with an adequate railway network and with roads, highways and modern ports, I say that they hide behind an alibi that has paralysed for years every initiative in favour of the southern. The construction of the bridge would finally activate a virtuous circle of investments for the development of the Mezzogiorno, which would become a logistic pole of Italy and Europe. Although the European Union continues to ask us for economic policies based on strategic investments, South has been totally abandoned in recent years. Of the approximately 63 billion of the 2014-2020 Development and Cohesion Fund, only a small part has been used (we speak 3-4 percent). This government has devoted too much money to the search for an electoral consensus, demonstrating that it cannot invest in the future of the country. You cannot continue to govern by distributing prebends and bonuses, thinking only of safeguarding your armchairs and ignoring the cost that future generations will pay for such policies. Time's up. The recovery fund may be an opportunity to reverse the course, but we must leave nothing to chance and above all we must start from the assumption that the South can no longer be treated as a ballast, but it represents the engine to be turned on to restart the whole of Italy. Believe me, Minister, our South - to make a metaphor - is an impervious territory, but still virgin and therefore extremely fertile. For this reason, I ask you to test him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u53	Senator Bagnai has the right to explain the question 3-01725 on the financing of public expenditure through market use, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u54	Minister, in our question we have allowed ourselves unworthyly to historicize, for you who are a historian, the events of the last one hundred and twelve days, starting from when, on 5 March, you presented a report asking - with our surprise - for a deviation of just 6.35 billion and arriving at the current data, which tell us how, compared with 62.9 billion of purchases of Italian securities by the ECB, the net issues of the Treasury were just 57.9 billion. I don't know if, reading these premises, he realized the disaster you've caused. The rules want the question to be contained on one page, but ours could have been summed up in a word: why? Why did you not listen to us when we told you that the deviation to be voted had to live up to the tragedy of the situation and that we would have to do like France, who at the last, less serious, global crisis had decided to expand the deficit to 7% of GDP (€138 billion), not only to contain immediate damage, but above all to better manage the relationship with the European brothers and sisters, who can excuse a high deficit in exceptional circumstances, provided that it is then reduced? We also explained to you that the financing of this deficit was not a problem, because it was clear that the ECB had no alternative: either to expand its umbrella or to blow up the French and German banks and therefore the euro. It was therefore necessary to proceed by issuing government bonds, which would meet the favor of Italian savers, and it was necessary to do so immediately; you did so after, on 16 May. Why? Why did it take you, who are so well-known and well-introduced in the European living rooms, where the news depicts you, twenty days to take advantage of the new state aid rules (France only four) and forty days to take advantage of the suspension of the Stability Pact with a new deviation (Germany only three)? Why? Did these obvious reactions surprise you? Didn't your European friends tell you about it? Or did you know, but did you want to take the opportunity to eliminate your class enemies? A century later, eliminating kulaki is still a priority, apparently, that today are the professionals left without compensation, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs without credit, but also the workers without Cassa Integrazione. Or perhaps you just wanted to consolidate your power, forcing the country to enter into Leonine pacts, like the ESM, with institutions governed by our economic opponents that are your political allies? Why, but also how much? How much will be the next deviation? How much will your delays cost us? The answer, Minister, concerns us not only from a political point of view, but also from a human and historical point of view. The greatest catastrophe in Italian economic history has a name, its name, and we are interested to know how, as a historian, it will tell the story. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u55	The Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance, Mr Gualtieri, has the right to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u56	The question clearly demonstrates a lack of full knowledge - or perhaps a lack of knowledge - of the mechanisms and techniques for issuing public debt. [[Applause]] I would like to focus on these aspects, not on the rest, which is quite obvious and objective: Italy has made the greatest budgetary policy effort in Europe, second only to that of Germany, to cope with the coronavirus. However, by limiting itself to the more specific question, where there is a clear confusion between the concept of gross and net emissions, which constitute an incorrect parameter (the former are higher than the purchases of the European Central Bank), I try to go with order. It is well known and evident that the effort has been unprecedented, widening the scope of existing placement mechanisms, creating additional ones and also putting new tools into use. In a few days, the Treasury Department has been able to put in place a strategy that has allowed the issuer to increase immediately and in a very significant way the financial provision in ways compatible with the market conditions and with the management of the risks of rate and refinancing. As I said, the question starts with incorrect assumptions. Firstly, it does not seem correct to take as a reference the amount of purchase of Italian securities by the ECB, as it is an indirect reference, relating to the secondary market, as this institution cannot buy directly on the primary one; a direct comparison seems misleading and, in any case, can only be partial figures compared to those planned by the countries as placements of securities. Even more misleading is referring to the period since the beginning of March, when - as the interrogators recall - the announcement of the Pandemic Emergency Purchasing Programme (PEPP) by the ECB is on 18 March. It is perhaps worth remembering that, in the first half of March, due to the explosion of the consequences of the pandemic, first in Italy and then in the rest of Europe, the market conditions for government bonds had become more difficult. An important increase in emissions since the beginning of March, apart from having no basis on the basis of the harvest forecasts at that time, would have only aggravated the already particularly difficult market conditions. The other incorrect assumption, even if we want to make a direct comparison between issues and the ECB's purchasing programme, is that this is done in terms of net issues, since it is the gross ones that represent the real needs to cover the state needs, including, that is, the maturity of securities, which the questioner obviously forgot to count. Net issues are affected by the reimbursement profile and this makes the comparison insignificant. On the basis of the figures for the period March to May 2020, gross issues of medium- to long-term securities amounted to EUR 117.26 billion, excluding BOTs, amounting to EUR 56.7 billion in nominal value. In the same period of 2019, gross emissions in the medium to long term amounted to approximately 65 billion, to which must be added 39.1 billion BOTs. The largest emissions in the medium to long term in this quarter were therefore 52.26 billion and the BOTs increased by 17.6 billion compared to the previous year. Comparing from the beginning of the year until 15 June 2020, there were 92.7 billion more emissions than in 2019, with an increase in the medium- to long-term segment of 76.9 billion and 15.8 billion with regard to BOTs. It is also noted that last year's update to the DEF provided for a requirement of around EUR 45 billion. Therefore, in terms of gross emissions, a total of around €247 billion, equal to the 45 billion requirements mentioned above, plus €202 billion of medium- to long-term deadlines. A total of EUR 171 billion of medium- to long-term securities were issued in May, representing around 70% of what was planned to be issued by 2020 at the end of 2019. To these figures, the amount of BOT short-term securities, which have been issued to date for more than those due to expire of more than 20 billion and which have been a further source of net financing, must be added, compared with an estimate at the end of 2019 of net issues of BOT nulle. It is therefore clear that the unprecedented effort has been made to meet the increased collection requirements that have emerged over the last few months, and it is equally clear that there is little empirical basis for the statements contained in Senator Bagnai's question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u57	I give the floor to Senator Bagnai to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u58	Minister, according to the parliamentary liturgy, I should now tell you that I am not satisfied with your reply, but I would lie: I am very satisfied. The question time is like Diogene's lantern and we weren't looking for an explanation of an economic dynamic that we understood before and better than her, so much so that in the end the facts proved us right. It is doing late and badly what we had asked to do soon and well, that is, 100 billion deviation for immediate interventions, financed with securities aimed mainly at Italian savers. ( [[Applause).]] How much the next deviation - that is, the cost of its delays - did not tell us, but that's okay, because we were looking for man and we found him: a mixture of rejection of reality, supposition to Parliament and so much love for the bureaucrat. It is not correct to say that the Italian effort is the largest or, as he likes to say, the most ambitious, because it is only if you include the 400 billion of the famous firepower, which did not put the state, but which should put the banks there. However, the human fact, which in history - especially of failures - counts, remains the political one, which is the following: this Government, born to have Parliament elect a President of the Republic in the image and likeness of the left, not only does it not have a solid majority in Parliament to carry out this institutional trap, but in the Upper House I communicate that it does not even have an absolute majority to be voted on the next necessary deviation, on which you have not informed us. ( [[Applause).]] Allow me then to give you a constructive advice: lay down your arrogance, work for a real sharing and listen to those who know more than you, like the many parliamentarians of the League who in these three months, with dedication and patriotism, have tried to make you understand right. White delegations will not give any more: good work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u59	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u61	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u62	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, in the international rankings Italy is at the top for corruption and among the last for freedom of information: two sides of the same coin. As early as 1955, as part of an inquiry into the sack of Rome and building speculation, the Espresso was released with the following cover title: Corrupt capital, infected nation. This plant, which is difficult to eradicate (similar to the recommendations), unfortunately involves all social, economic and institutional categories. In many of the 60,000 interceptions of the maxi-inquiry that overwhelmed the former president of the National Association of magistrates Palamara for the alleged piloted appointments of togatas, in addition to a commodity of the judicial function, contracted to the current system, with strong doubts on some judgments not always balanced and issued according to the canons of justice equal for all, emerges the network of influences and relationships functional to the system of recommendations activated to obtain assignments, which has inflicted deep wounds to the judiciary. Between the intercepts and the chats there are also the complaints of Palamara about the lack of gratitude of Mancinetti, member of the disciplinary section of the CSM, body that has the task of judging colleagues subject to disciplinary action, having worked for the son, eager to undertake medical studies in Tor Vergata. Well, he meets with the rector Novelli and arrives to win at the University of Tirana, upon appointment, where he would appear in the company of the mother of Mancinetti junior, Anna Maria Soldi, substitute at the Court of Cassation. Magistrates alone, perhaps politicized, who, in spite of Article 68 of the Constitution, according to which Members of Parliament cannot be called to respond to the opinions expressed and the votes given in the performance of their duties, open drumming investigations on senators, after the denunciation of a former director general, with the use of the core of the Guardia di Finanza and the authority for its use and consumption, rei having dared to present acts of inspection union on Agcom, forgetting for about two years to instruct the procedure after the initial and certain questioning of the impunity of the current. If in the balanced separation between the powers of the State the judicial function prevails, the exicial error of politics is repeated, which delegated powers to oligarchs, making finance prevail over the real economy; that exclusive club of people not democratically elected who decides the destinies of the world after manipulating the markets. I would like to close, Mr President, by thanking you: democracies work with weights and counterweights, which, if they fail, can open the door to authoritarianism and prevent, with the notorious circular gag, from calling for account, through acts of inspection union, of the wrongdoing of the magistrates. There are many blocked questions: this means mortifying the senator's function and prerogatives and inflicting a blow on the democratic dialectic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u63	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u64	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u65	MANTOVANI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in an online article on the website www.key4biz.it of 16 June, we learn that Zoom, software used to organize videoconferences, would censor two organized by the United States (not China) for the commemoration of the anniversary of the Tiananmen Square massacre. We know that the Senate also uses Zoom and is used, in particular, for informal hearings held in the Commission. This platform for commercial video conferencing, together with other, also commercial, used by the school for distance learning and by the public administration for smart working, presents several critical issues for the protection of personal data, for the robustness of the technological infrastructure and, as mentioned above, there are also problems of a political nature. In fact, the automatic censorship feature allows you to infer that there is no confidentiality on communications and that videoconversations, as admitted in privacy policies, can be used for profiling purposes. State administrations must take action. The German Government has forbidden the use of Zoom. However, these problems must not make us backtrack in the steps taken in recent months towards the digitalization of the country, instead they must make us increasingly aware of the background that there are in the use of technologies. Digital technologies collect data and data is the new raw material for future applications. We have to decide whether we want to continue to give the competitors these raw materials or we want to start exploiting them internally. Alternatives to the trading platforms of non-European giants exist. Open source platforms exist. Spanish and French colleagues have already implemented the state video conference both for the functionality of public offices and for distance teaching. We need to do that too. In public administration applications involving the processing of personal data, in particular in school applications, the use of products of which the source code is not known should be prohibited by law. In Italy, as an alternative to the commercial giants, the voluntary initiative of "iorestoacasa.work" started, based on the use of open source codes and around which the best computer professionals from our universities have gathered. In order to carry out the project, virtual resources have been donated to digital infrastructures of public ownership, in particular national research bodies, public universities and the Research Network Harmonisation Group (GARR). I am therefore asking the question of Professor Maria Chiara Pievatolo: why have Italian institutions so far preferred private and proprietary systems out of their control, instead of using open, public and controlled solutions? I would add my own: why are the decisions on purchases and solutions regarding the digitisation of public services not in the availability of our best experts, but it seems like the worst? Not only do I say that, even Professor Angelo Raffaele Meo in his recent letter to Minister Azzolina, signed by free software associations denounces the bad choices of recent decades. Our country has practically left the industrial sector of information technology. The letter asks for a law prohibiting the use of proprietary software in public administration applications involving the processing of personal data. It is also called for to enhance the exceptional technological development allowed by free data processing that has exploded in recent years. We have millions of designers and programmers who can be an important opportunity for the economy of our country and it is appropriate to devote the investments that will shortly be made in digital exclusively to technologies in free software. The proposals and alternatives are therefore there and I hope that the Senate, the school and all the public administration can use them as soon as possible. We are called to the digital transition to be taken in a short time; let's do it decisively by focusing on our resources. Digital sovereignty means putting our brains, infrastructures and data into system to revive the country's economy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u66	Of course, with regard to the judgment on professionalism, you take responsibility for your assessments. For the rest, however, like many public institutions, the Senate also uses common market platforms. His reliefs are articulated. It will be the Presidency's responsibility to report them to the senators. This is because you have obviously raised a complex issue which, of course, pays off the pledge of a relatively recent practice of use by the institutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u67	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-25-LEG18-Senato-sed-235.ana.u68	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 7 July, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.19 a.m.
