ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.30 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 12 November. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u3	The next item is the statement by the President. Colleagues, I inform you that the Senate will meet again on Wednesday 25 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the President's announcements on the agenda on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u6	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, honestly, I would have expected to speak with President Alberti Casellati, to clarify a question concerning my question about an Authority, namely the Communications Guarantee Authority (Agcom). I will discuss this later with President Alberti Casellati, but I would still like to discuss it with you, Mr President. In fact, there is a directive of 6 September 2018, cited by the President, whom I acknowledge, I have received and which asks not to ask questions about the Authorities, since they are independent. Apart from the fact that the Government is responsible for Agcom, as well as for other Authorities, at least for the relationship of trust with the members that it proposes and that are voted by Parliament, just go to the Senate's website to find dozens of questions about Agcom, Consob or Banca d'Italia. I therefore wonder why this very question: either there is a problem of rewording, but if that is the case we correct it, or this rule applies and therefore all the acts of inspection union presented after this directive, which enter into the very substance of the work of the independent authorities, all directed to the relevant ministries or to the Presidency of the Council, are mistakes and should not have been presented. Furthermore, this does not happen in the House of Deputies. Of course, it is up to the Presidency and the Conference of the Leaders to decide otherwise, but in fact, the same question could be put to the House of Deputies on the subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u7	Senator Airola, I will inform the Presidency of your indications and then there will be a direct intercourse by the President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u10	ZANDA (PD). Mr President, I have asked for the floor because I believe it is necessary that today in the Senate Assembly we stop, even for a few minutes, to consider the political and institutional significance of the recent acquittal in the Court of Appeal of Antonio Bassolino, accused of sin. In 2016 this same accusation had been declared prescribed, but Bassolino had wanted to challenge the acquittal because he wanted it full and on the merits. The Court of Appeal has given him reason and recognized his absolute innocence, absolving him for not having committed the matter. So far, an Italian history of ordinary justice, in which emerges however the will of a man of the institutions who, sure of his innocence, asks to be judged for his conduct in the trial and is not content to be acquitted by a prescription that is unable to resolve the dilemma between innocence and guilt of the accused. However, as soon as the picture widens, Bassolino's absolution is transformed from the personal and ordinary case of a citizen, even if it is important, into a political and institutional case of national scope. In the last fifteen years Bassolino has been acquitted 19 times, after having been brought to trial as many as 19 times on accusations that defyed his work as public administrator and his figure as political leader. The nineteenth absolution of Antonio Bassolino confirms the honesty, integrity and clarity of the conduct of a public personality who has dedicated his whole life to Naples and his country. Those who know, frequent and are friends of Antonio Bassolino certainly did not need judicial confirmation. Bassolino is a transparent man, very direct and clear; his personal and political honesty is evident in every gesture, word and decision. His nineteenth acquittal also has a considerable political weight because 19 charges and 19 acquittal sentences cannot be the result of an isolated error or of the case: they are the clear sign of an inquisitory power used for 19 times with a casualness which, precisely because of its seriality, cannot fail to suggest an intentional will for political persecution. If it is true that the judge (also that of the prosecution) not only must be fair, but must also appear so, we must say that Bassolino's inquisitors did not really appear fair. But there's more. In an interview two days ago the then prosecutor of the Republic of Naples candidly admitted that "some mistake we have made" and - I quote again - "of those errors Bassolino paid the expenses." I think it's necessary to ask what justice this is. What justice is there when an innocent citizen is sued 19 times by an investigative judiciary that then, after 19 acquittals, admits itself that those charges were the result of its own mistakes? This is not the place, nor do we have the time to deal with the crucial relationship between politics and justice, but it is worth bringing back other words from the former prosecutor of Naples in office at the time of Bassolino's indictment. Also in the interview two days ago, the former prosecutor says: It was 2010 and even if the peak of the garbage emergency was exceeded, the roads remained enveloped with bags. We were wondering (understanding us at the Public Prosecutor's Office) how to push the mayors to intervene, to get busy, and it occurred to us to contest the manslaughter epidemic. It worked quite well, it served as a spur. They are both naive and disconcerting statements. This is not the sense of the constitutional precept of the mandatory prosecution, because one thing is clear: if a prosecutor intends to push public administration towards this or that conduct and does so by using his discretionary power of investigation and indictment, even by creatively forcing a criminal case means that we are very far from that division of powers which is the main cornerstone of our democratic order. However, we must know how to go further because, even in such dramatic circumstances, Italian justice has shown that there is a judge who can guarantee legality since, in the end, as many as 19 judges have done justice to Bassolino, rejecting unsubstantiated accusations. The need remains that, starting from these events in Naples, Parliament and the Supreme Council of the judiciary question the functioning of an accusatory system that, if used without balance and without sobriety, can produce irreparable damage, can upset the lives of honest citizens who, in the long-awaited judgment, are exposed to real street trials, can lead to failure blameless companies, with very serious social consequences and can even, as in the case of Bassolino, interfere with questionable methods on the good performance of the country's political and institutional system. From Antonio Bassolino's 19 absolutions we can learn some lessons. It is well known that the great crises, such as our country is going through, can impoverish the nations or can give them the strength to get out of them through great processes of reform of the state and institutions. Today Italy is in front of this crossroads: to return to growth or resign to decline. The 19 trials and 19 absolutions of Antonio Bassolino tell us that, without a profound reform of our judicial system, firmly anchored to the constitutional principle of the division of powers, not only will we not be able to recover economically and socially, but we will also have lost everything that remains of our ancient civilization of law, which once made us great. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u13	LUNESU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent weeks Sardinia has been at the heart of a media investigation initiated by a broadcast broadcast by a state television channel. In a subtle and incorrect way were represented the events that occurred at the turn of Ferragosto, concerning the opening of the discotheques in Costa Smeralda. As a result of this news, the district attorney felt very quickly that he had to open an investigation into the highest regional institutions on the charge of a manslaughter epidemic. I would point out that President Solinas, at the beginning of the tourist season, when the virus in Sardinia was practically non-existent, had strongly requested a certificate of negativity, in order only to protect more the inhabitants of Sardinia and the many tourists who arrived. This resolution, however, had been the subject of strong controversy and easy irony and, as if not enough, challenged by the Government. It is worth remembering that in the period of August 17 regions out of 20 reopened the discos for a number of days more than that granted by the junta Solinas. The concession in question, in fact, had been deliberated following an agenda of the Regional Council voted unanimously, which committed the Junta to deliberate the opening of the discotheques from 11 to 16 August, but the members of the opposition soon forgot their favorable vote in August and preferred to exploit the event in order to strongly attack the government Solinas with unfounded accusations aimed at creating disorientation and discontent. It is especially true that at a delicate moment in the world of pandemics, in which freedom is violated and in which great responsibility is required, it is preferable to foment public opinion, rather than to reassure it with decisive proposals. I also wonder why the institutions of the State, which should instill a sense of justice and serenity in the citizens, as an organ above the parties, did not intervene as quickly as possible against the Government Count, who, by challenging the resolution of the certificate of negativity of early summer, has frustrated all the work of prevention that had made Sardinia Covid free. In this way, both the conditions that allowed the virus to spread with all its virulence and the attempt to represent Sardinia as an outbreak and anointing, rather than victim and injured party, have been created. The result? Huge economic and image damage. This story, ladies and gentlemen, leads me to make a final reflection: to grasp the recent invitation of our President Sergio Mattarella, so that a difficult game like this can be won, we need a loyal collaboration, being together with a great sense of responsibility. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u14	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-276.ana.u15	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 25 November, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.47 p.m.
