ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.04 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 17 January. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u3	The President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr Rome, 17 January 2020 Mr President, I should like to inform your Lordship that the President of the Republic, by his own decree of today, adopted on my proposal, after hearing the Council of Ministers, has appointed Mr. Dr. Anna ASCANI and Dr. Giuseppe DE CHRISTOFARO. With heartfelt cordiality, f. to Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u4	I communicate that on 22 January 2020 the following draft law was transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies: By way of amendment, the Law of 16 December 2019 laying down urgent measures for the support of the credit system of the Mezzogiorno and for the establishment of an investment bank of 1672.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u5	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u6	The next item is the report by the Minister for Justice on the administration of justice. After the Minister's speech, the debate will take place, the timing of which has been decided by the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups. I call the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u7	Mr President, it is indeed a source of pride for me to be back in this House and to be able to represent what has been the path taken and taken by the Ministry of Justice in the past year. Last year, on this same occasion, I found myself representing a delicate picture, in which the traits of trust, prestige, respect and authority of the justice system were constantly losing color, fading in the face of the long process and the increasingly widespread distrust on the part of the citizen. It has been and is still appropriate not to revolutionise the system, but to rebuild it, starting from the very foundations, in order to guarantee that solidity, which is necessary, in order to restore to a progressive sense of renewed confidence of the citizens towards the institutions and towards justice. Building a solid foundation has only one translation: investment in justice. Without investments, any reform to address the difficulties and criticalities that go through this sector would be doomed to fail. This is a crucial area. in which the quality of human resources - let me remind you - is very high: magistrates, lawyers, administrative staff, all those involved in the work, who for decades, practically alone, have carried out the machinery of justice. The time has finally come to deliver them an infrastructure that is suitable to support so high professional qualities. In the budget of the State for the financial year 2019, for the Ministry of Justice, appropriations were provided for more than €8.5 billion and for this 2020 the last budget law has foreseen for almost €9 billion. More resources have been foreseen, therefore, than in 2018 and this has enabled an unprecedented effort to be made in terms of recruitment of the judiciary and administrative staff. In May 2019 was published the first implementing decree for the revision of organic plants of the Court of Cassation, increased by 70 magistrates. At the same time, the Ministry's offices have worked on the re-determination of organic plants of the judicial offices of merit, the proposal of which was already sent to the Supreme Council of the judiciary for follow-up last December. This intervention, which involves the overall distribution of 600 new magistrates, is certainly the most incisive in recent decades and is characterized by being already fully covered financially. The strengthening of the judiciary's staff will continue in the coming year, considering that amendments to Law No 48 of 2001 have been foreseen in the budget law for 2020 aimed, among other things, at the introduction of flexible district organic plants. The scale of the investments in question shows that justice is no longer an ordinary budget item, but a real priority of national law. Medesime considerations apply with reference to administrative staff, in respect of which the budget law for 2019 has established that the Ministry of Justice, in addition to the assumptions provided for in current legislation and especially by way of derogation from the turn over, is authorized to assume 2,903 units in the three-year period 2019-2021. In addition to those already allowed since November 2019, these recruitments should be added as part of an overall planning of recruitment of non-directive personnel for the three-year period for the coverage of 8.756 holidays. During the course of the year this financial boost allowed the sliding of additional eligible of the ranking of judicial assistant, with the assumption of 635 units, to which will be added additional 489 suitable, already convened for the choice of the seat. The selection procedure for the recruitment of 616 judicial practitioners was also initiated. The ministerial decree of 18 April 2019 established the profiles of the professional figures of technical officer and technical assistant at the central and peripheral offices of the judicial administration. The allocations of these figures were determined in 63 and 137 units respectively, depending on the achievement of a more rational organizational structure of the Ministry. A further result achieved is found in the public competition for the coverage of 2,329 posts of official, started with a ban of 26 August 2019, which to date has already seen the prompt and regular completion of the pre-elections in November 2019. With regard to judicial construction, with the transfer from the municipalities to the Ministry of Justice of the relevant competences, the Central Administration has assumed direct management of approximately 926 buildings, partly state property, partly municipal and partly leased by private individuals or other entities. This was probably done without substantially implementing a suitable infrastructure to support it. Therefore, maximum attention and constant commitment are needed in order to satisfy the requests for intervention as soon as possible, with reference to all the activities that must be carried out directly by the Ministry. Interlocking with public works has been carried out in order to define the operational and interaction modalities necessary for programming based on the eligibility of payments. The comparison has evidenced the necessity to arrive to the predisposition of relations on conventional basis between the two Administrations, that of the justice and that of infrastructures and the transports. For medium and long-term investment projects, the Ministry - identifying as its institutional interlocutor the State Property Agency - has promoted the realization in some cities of poles of justice (the so-called judicial citadels), through the refunctionalization of decommissioned state property or in poor state of maintenance. In some cases, as in the city of Lecce, the centre of justice will affect real estate seized from organized crime, which will therefore be subject to the exercise of judicial functions. The projects related to the judicial citadels of Rome, Bari, Perugia, Lecce, Vercelli, Trani, Messina, Catania, Milan, Velletri, Venice, Bologna, Catanzaro, Sassari and Udine continue; close to the signing of the protocols are also Taranto and Foggia. The strong acceleration to the path already underway on technological innovation has laid the foundations for a legislative policy of substantial speeding-up of civil and criminal processes and the general administrative system. In order to promote a high quality standard of the justice system through the current use of technologies, systems have been reengineered to enable communication between different operating systems, while ensuring the correct exchange of information and data security. The complexity of the structural adjustment work has required substantial funds (equal to about 650 million euros distributed over the three years 2019-2021) in order to make the justice system more rapid and efficient at all levels with the commitment to intervene on the issues so far emerged, in particular in the evolution of the telematic process in the civil field and in the start of the telematic criminal process. In December, software was released for the electronic filing of acts by lawyers: the trial is being planned in Naples, Catania and Perugia (wait the technical table convened for February) and from June 2020 it will be implemented in all offices. Since September 2019, experimentation has been started in Naples and Genoa for remote access, for lawyers, to the system of surveillance courts. This innovation will also be extended to all offices by June 2020. With regard to penitentiary construction, the main aim is to simultaneously improve the working conditions of the prison police and of all those who work within the structures, on the other hand, the living conditions of the prisoners. The resources recognized for the financing of the interventions by the Administration, for the years 2018 to 2033, amount to little less than 350 million euros in order to create new detention posts and to increase the security of the penitentiary institutions and to modernize all the plant system and the endowment of the prison police. I like to remember that the pavilions of Lecce, Parma and Trani have already been delivered, for a total of 592 new detention places and another 400 will come from the delivery, this year, of the new pavilions of Taranto and Sulmona. From the personnel point of view, the priority was to increase the organic budget, both in the civil sector and in the prison police force. In November 2019, 189 units of the accounting officer profile were employed. It is also in the definition phase of the interministerial decree concerning the recruitment of 45 managers of non-general management prisons. The rankings for economic progressions for a total of 671 units will also be completed within the current year. Specifically, I would like to point out that, in 2019, they attended and completed the training course for the commissioning of 1,470 agents and 971 deputy inspectors of the prison police force. At the same time, in June and September 2019 two new courses were launched for the recruitment of 1,300 student agents and a new public competition was also published for the recruitment of 754 additional student agents, the recruitment of which will presumably take place between April and June 2020. Also in April 2020 there should be the appointment of 2.851 Deputy Superintendents who are currently attending training courses already started in September. Even in this sector, therefore, it was essential to build the bases for the efficiency of the Body in terms of quantity and quality of working resources, in order to then operate a decisive change of pace towards the professional relaunch of the Prison Police, thanks to the preparation of the normative text for the reorganization of the careers of the staff of the Forces of Order. This regulation aims, among other things, to optimise the organisational functionality of the prison police force and to align the career progression of its staff with the roles of the other police forces, so as to enable it to make the decisive leap in quality expected for decades. It is a question of finally giving the prison police a recognition of its important and essential function within the justice system. With regard to a very delicate issue, such as that of the mothers inmates, in 2019 the activity of impulse to the implementation of Law No 62 of 2011, which still sees two projects aimed at the opening of new Icam offices, respectively in Florence and Rome. One of the most problematic aspects lies in the need, not so much of new places at the structures in the absolute sense, but rather in predicting a more widespread and delocalized placement of the same Icams. In the perimeter of the certainty of the penalty there has been the implementation of the contents of the individual treatment paths, to which it has been attributed more concreteness with the final aim to realize a conscious social reintegration of the prisoners and, at the same time, to guarantee an increase of the safety for the community, limiting the risk of relapse. To this end, the Ministry has invested most of its energies by focusing on the work of prisoners, as a privileged form of reeducation. At the date of June 30 last there are 16,850 working prisoners, also the result of about 70 protocols with organizations for public works. Precisely in order to further enhance the work of the prisoners, based on the results of the trial of the Public Useful Works programme, last October the section "I ransom for the future - Central Office for the Work of Prisoners" was established. I would point out that in order to facilitate the treatment of adult prisoners, it has been invested in the last budget law in targeted recruitment of 50 legal-pedagogical officials and cultural mediators, 100 officials of pedagogical and social service professionalism as well as 18 executives for external criminal enforcement offices. The re-educational character is accentuated even more with reference to the children offenders, compared to whom the attention is greatest, along the dual director of the management of minors entering the criminal circuit and the prevention of deviance through project and research actions. In particular, a criminal executive model has been identified which, while not renouncing detention, uses it only when no other type of treatment can allow to settle the sanctioning and security needs with the pedagogical instances of an evolving personality. [[Brusio.]] CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, there is an unbearable noise, which is not possible. PRESIDENT. - The debate is In fact, there is a fundamental buzz which also prevents the Presidency from listening with due attention. You're welcome, Minister. BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Thank you, President. Speaking of investments, I have referred several times to the term 'fundamental', because it is clear that it is a question of consolidating at the base a system as neurological as that of justice through interventions that, already visible now, will be even more so from this year. They are, as I have always said, executive actions which are not political in nature, but which correctly identify justice as the good and interest of the citizens, who must remain as far as possible outside the ideological contests. This approach has allowed the country to continue in the most important infrastructure projects, without the political crisis of this summer affecting the pursuit of objectives that can no longer be postponed. On the other hand, the voice of all those involved in the project is virtually unanimous, first asking for investment and then the regulatory reforms that, at that point, can develop on a solid infrastructure network and - let me say this - with broad shoulders. With this approach, once the implementation of investments has been activated, it has been possible to confront, within the majority, on the reforms of the civil process and the criminal process, with the objective to intervene surgically on the dead times and malfunctions of the process, without giving life to the yet another chapter of a useless and ten-year legislative stratification. I believe that this was and should continue to be the ultimate discontinuity of this majority with the one that preceded it: the ability to deal with the great reforms that will give citizens swift and efficient justice. This capacity has already been demonstrated, in fact, in the adoption of the draft law delegation on the civil process in the Council of Ministers. A normative system that has been carefully screened in a table with the operators of the trial (National Association of Magistrates, National Council of Forensics, Union of Civil Chambers, Congressional Body forensics and Italian Association of Young Lawyers), in the awareness that precisely the confrontation and sometimes also the contrast are the real stimulus to operate in terms of improvement on the civil process, even if they persist, as in this case, some spaces of divergence. With the draft delegation law in question, it has focused on a single ordinary rite for civil disputes before the monocratic judge, with fundamental rules that will apply also to proceedings before the court in collegial composition and before the court of appeal; it has focused on a single introductory act for all civil proceedings, on a rationalization of alternative methods of dispute resolution and on the acceleration of digitalization. Above all, we focus on the awareness that, in a process based on a mainly written contradictory, the hearings must always have a particular and concrete usefulness. The reduction in the duration of the processes, then, will no longer pass only through a decrease in the litigation, compared to which even 2019 has seen confirmation of the tendency to the decrease of the civil slopes (to 30 September 2019 the total slopes were 3,329,436, that is 2.8% less than the same period of 2018) with a data that is certainly positive. Compared to 2018, the excesses have dropped by a further 1.7 percent, confirming the decreasing trend of the past years: in the last 10 years the decrease has been even 36 percent. The real challenge is to eliminate, as far as possible, even the doubt that, in addition to the great effort of the judiciary and the professionals, the decrease in the gradients is due to the increased distrust of the citizen towards the judicial system. Also in the civil sector, at the beginning of 2019 legislative decree n. 14 was approved, which represents the port point of a path of organic and coherent reform of competition procedures. A path that, even, began in the previous legislature. The regulatory changes introduced allowed alignment with European legislation and the elimination of the isolation that characterized the Italian system of the business crisis. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u8	Please, I would ask you to pay attention, because we are really dealing with one of the most important issues in the political debate. Anyone who wants to speak can go outside, but here in this Chamber we follow what the Minister says. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u9	BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. Thank you, President. After the approval, moreover, there has been a deep dialogue with the professionals and economic operators, in order to assess the impact of the new discipline and its concrete sustainability in relation to the economic fabric, reaching, when corrective, to better calibrate the rules on the alert phase on the business reality, extending its entry into force for small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as criminal matters are concerned, some particularly important laws have been adopted in the past year. I refer, first of all, to Law No 3 of 9 January 2019 (so-called scrambled sweeps), which intervened, in the fight against corruption, by including the undercover agent among the investigative instruments, the so-called Daspus to the corrupt, the rules on transparency of funding to parties, the tightening up of the detention regime after the final conviction and a new prescription regime which entered into force on 1 January 2020. Fighting corruption without hesitation or failure is a moral duty of the institutions, economic operators, those responsible for public administrations, of all citizens, to increase the opportunities for economic, social and cultural growth of our national community. Corruption weakens the rule of law, also considering that the criminal action of the mafia powers, as many investigations have shown, is often fueled precisely by the corruptive method. Many of the novelties introduced have allowed our country to align with the indications of European bodies and recommendations from supranational fora. Within the framework of the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) at the Council of Europe, the importance of the so-called "corruption sweep" law has been represented, which has allowed us to overcome the problems encountered during the third round of evaluation against our country. GRECO has therefore congratulated Italy for its efforts and our country will no longer be subject to further verification of compliance with the recommendations on the themes of the third cycle, which has been considered successful. In the OECD our country is preparing to be evaluated, for the fourth phase, in 2020, after having favorably defined the verifications of the phases I, II and III with the approval of the relative relationships. The search for legality and the principle of certainty of punishment are also the basis of the recent reform of tax crimes, within the tax decree: the State proves to be, once again and increasingly, on the side of honest citizens who pay taxes. Another particularly relevant law is No. 69 of 2019: the so-called red code. It is precisely thanks to Parliament that the original legislative structure, aimed at ensuring the timeliness of state intervention in relation to a woman's complaint, has enriched itself with additional fundamental profiles: I think, for example, of the rules on revenge porn, the tightening of penalties for sexual violence, the defacement of the face, the inapplicability of the balancing of attenuators to ensure the certainty of the penalty, the induction or constraint to marriage. The so-called red code was widely appreciated in Italy's evaluation before the United Nations during the fourth cycle of universal periodic review on respect for human rights in our country. Clearly, as gender violence is an extremely complex issue, involving not only legal but also cultural and social actions, it is important to clarify that the law in question represents an important starting point for a path that can be enriched by other regulatory actions. Finally, 2019 closed with the approval of the decree-law in the matter of interceptions, with which we finally work a contemperation of the needs of investigation with those relative to the right of privacy and defence. Finally, let me take this opportunity to mention the intense legislative activity carried out by Parliament in this last year, which the Ministry of Justice has had the honour to provide its active cooperation. I am thinking of the introduction of the new discipline on class action, Law No. 31 of 2019 but also of the Law of 21 May 2019, No. 43, which introduced an incisive amendment of Article 416-b of the Criminal Code in the matter of Mafia political exchange voting. The aim of defending the citizens most exposed to violence and abuse has also led the constitution, within the Ministry of Justice, of the special team for the protection of minors, which has allowed to acquire data never before collected on the trusts, allowing the mapping of a reality that has been involved in serious events in recent decades. In a year and a half (i.e. from January 1, 2018 to June 30, 2019) the children placed in third environment were 12,338: being the first monitoring, there are no terms of comparison with the past. After completion of the first phase of collection and monitoring, the activities of the special team for the protection of minors will continue with the elaboration of normative proposals and with an intercourse with the other public subjects involved, starting from the Ministry for the family and equal opportunities and the Ministry of Health. The aim will also be to make a contribution to the parliamentary debate, which already covers some legislative proposals on the subject. With regard to the issue of unjust detentions, on my direct impulse, in the first months of 2019 the scope of the inspections of the General Inspectorate on the application and management of the protective measures was expanded, extending the verification to all the hypotheses of unjust detention and not only to the so-called late release. This is the first time - and I stress: the first time - that the Ministry of Justice is preparing, in a structural way, such widespread monitoring of unjust detentions. The General Inspectorate, in the first months of 2019, made the acquisition of flow data related to the procedures registered in the last three years (2016-2018) at the Courts of Appeal, which allow to evaluate analytically the incidence of charitable applications on a district basis, as well as national and aggregated for homogeneous macroareas. Two further major regulatory measures are under reform. I am referring first of all to the draft law on new rules on the criminal protection of foodstuffs, which recovers and updates the important work of the so-called Caselli Commission in the last parliamentary term. Coordination and cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry have enabled a key text to be written, which is already ready for approval at one of the forthcoming meetings of the Council of Ministers. On the other hand, it has already been approved, also in the Council of Ministers, the bill containing the prohibition of parasitic advertising (ambush marketing), which will be able to accredit Italy as a state-of-the-art country in guaranteeing the proper conduct of the events, also through the protection of the commercial interests of the sponsors, operators and federations that organize the aforementioned events. The bill on the honorary judiciary, which values the fundamental contribution that the honorary judiciary has always made to the justice system and which, as such, deserves a clear legal recognition, has been presented in Parliament (specifically to the Senate). I hope that the parliamentary path will provide an opportunity to enrich the text with improved rules where Parliament considers it appropriate. When we talk about the protagonists of the justice system, we obviously also talk about lawyers. That is why I wanted to place among the objectives of the Ministry the strengthening of the so-called fair compensation, which concerns the sphere not only economic, but - even earlier - of the professional dignity of the Vetting, a cornerstone of the system of guaranteeing citizens' rights. To this end, in July 2019, a protocol was concluded establishing a central monitoring core of the Fair Compensation Act, which aims to report in concrete terms the violations of the current discipline. The draft constitutional law for the inclusion of principles in Article 111 of the Constitution in terms of the function and role of the lawyer has already been deposited in Parliament (in the Senate). I do not allow myself and I would never allow myself to invade parliamentary spaces, especially when we consider that we are talking about a proposal for a change of constitutional rank. Let me just point out that such a rule would enable us to recognize and consecrate the fundamental social function, even before legal, of the lawyer. It is also well known that within the majority there has been a real construction site, which is currently under way, dealing with two proposals for reform: one on the criminal trial and the other on the CSM and the judiciary. As far as the latter is concerned, I can anticipate that the aim is to guarantee the independence and autonomy of the judiciary, also by strengthening, in this sense, the separation between politics and the judiciary itself. The draft in question (because draft is spoken) also addresses the issue of the electoral system for the election of members of the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Among the principles underlying this reform is to exclude any distortion due to the so-called degenerations of currentism. On the other hand, with regard to the draft reform of the criminal process, the aim is to intervene with a series of measures that can at last reduce the time of the trials, guaranteeing their reasonableness, as well as the rights of all the parties involved. I would like to say that the outcome of this table, carried out among the majority forces, there will also be a table with the experts (in particular all the subjects I mentioned earlier with reference to the table on the civil trial, only that here there will also be the criminal chambers), just to compare the text that will have emerged to the outcome of the political confrontation currently taking place. I would like to stress that all the reform projects are being compared between those involved and that since this year, a monitoring team on the application of the laws on justice adopted in Parliament in this parliamentary term has been set up in the Department of Justice. I am beginning to conclude: the international sector has a very high level of attention to international relations in multi- or bilateral terms, especially as regards the prevention of terrorism, the return of fugitive terrorists abroad and the expulsion of prisoners so that they may pay off their sentence in their country of origin. I have already been able to identify the progress that our system has made in the fight against corruption and the related recognitions obtained in the fora of the international monitoring and control bodies. Referring to the report submitted all the specific details, here I would like to remind you that, at the Conference of the Countries party to the UN Convention against Corruption of December 2019, the theme of the recovery of confiscated property has played a central role and a resolution has been adopted that, precisely on the proposal of the Italian delegation, provides that States Parties undertake to consider also the social use of confiscated property. The strengthening of the fight against transnational organised crime is an ever-priority objective which is an indispensable tool in the Palermo Convention for effectively combating the most serious criminal phenomena. One of the most important, if not the most important international event this year, is the Conference of the Parties to the Palermo Convention, from 12 to 16 October: it is the twentieth anniversary of this Convention which is based on an idea by Giovanni Falcone and is certainly an opportunity for general reflection on the instruments to be strengthened and improved in the fight against crime at international and cross-border level. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that this is a summary of the much more complete report that has been submitted, but it could only be otherwise for the sake of respect for the timing of the parliamentary debate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u10	I note that any motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, for reasons of brevity I will concentrate my speech only on a few reflections and some issues which particularly concern the Commission which I have the honour and the burden of presiding over and others of a more general nature, not without expressing some sincere appreciation of the direction you have indicated today, priority over the state of administration of justice dear to the Democratic Party for several years and initiated, moreover, by the Renzi Government and then Minister Orlando. In particular, you have chosen to start your relationship with a strategic word for us and for anyone who has followed the subject of justice in recent years: investment. For some time now the Renzi Government, with Minister Orlando, had started it and you rightly choose to continue on that path today, partly because it is the justice sector that is asking for it. In particular, investment in human resources is needed: new magistrates, administrative staff, judicial assistants also using the rankings of suitable people, on which I would like to ask for a healthy balance of the rights of all, without excessive differences between the years taken into account. In any case, these are investments in human and instrumental resources, such as the digitisation of the process on which we continue to invest. You have also referred to other issues which I mention only for titles for reasons of brevity, such as fair compensation or reform of the honorary judiciary. These are issues that you have been pursuing for a long time; you have rightly said that you can only share them and that there can be no ideological approach to the administration of good justice, and I can only express respect for this appreciation. There is one thing I would like to say to you about prison housing: I absolutely agree with you, that the construction of new prison facilities should be a good thing. Perhaps, however, the data should also be read here: the prison overcrowding - we are also told by the Guarantor - returns to be a serious problem, more for those who do not leave than for those who enter. This means returning to the value of those alternative measures that we had put our hands on, in any case, in a logic perhaps even of greater decriminalization, even here without any ideological approach. I think that is a necessary road to take seriously. As well as the reference he made to the attenuated custody institutions for inmates mothers (Icam): on this point I can say that it is fine, indeed very good. The problem of mothers incarcerated with children in our prisons is a serious problem that needs to be addressed. Perhaps it should be taken up, along with the theme of the Icams, also that of the family houses, trying to understand: they were parallel roads and all possible, but the local authorities are in difficulty and therefore should be reconsidered. Just as it is dear to us, especially to us members of the Justice Commission, to the issue of the recovery of abusive men. You mentioned this with reference to the stage of execution of the sentence, since you have dealt with the issue of violence (but I will come back to that later): it is a dear topic, even before and after the execution of the sentence. The recovery of abusive men must and can be our priority. However, I would like to express my main appreciation for the words of courage which, to tell the truth, for the first time I heard in your report, when you referred to the fact that we must also act, that this Government was also born in reason of a necessary discontinuity with a previous plant, therefore for reasons which I define as courage and responsibility with respect to the necessary overcoming of the limits and excesses of a sovereign and illiberal government that had substantially put under attack rights and guarantees. I believe that you have certainly made an important effort in your report on this matter, and I would like to start with that. By choice you did not refer to the subject of prescription and I would like to read this as a great openness to a necessary subject, the subject of an important and challenging debate for the forces of your majority. That is right, because it is an issue that involves an important debate and that we still have positions that are probably distant. I say - and I believe I have a duty to do so - that I do not consider the mediation and the difference between innocence and guilty judgments to be sufficient; in my opinion the issue of prescription has been dealt with, precisely because of what you said, in an installation of a government that was fundamentally wrong. We must remember that the statute of limitations has been passed by a majority other than that of the present and has suffered from the kind of cultural system that is liberal and sovereign, which essentially puts the rights and freedoms of individuals in the alternative, which has, in my view, undermined the foundations of a rule of law and which, above all, has not even properly and effectively pursued the efficiency of the justice system. On this subject I would really like to say with simplicity, but also with calmness, that I believe that we can all be a lighthouse the words that the vice president of the CSM David Ermini has pronounced with a great sense of responsibility, also for the role he plays when he clearly said to be careful not to sacrifice the system of guarantees on the altar of the efficiency of the system. It is not a possible barter; it is a dangerous barter, which would put the whole system at risk and above all the fundamental principles of a rule of law. I believe that the words of David Ermini can for all of us, certainly for the present majority, be a beacon and indicate a direction of march. You also referred to the wiretapping measure as well as the fight against corruption. For a question of tones and style no longer refers to Law No. 3 of 2019 as the so-called short sweeps. It's a matter of style: it's a measure that has so many rules, but it's not nice to call it "corrupt sweepers." In the meantime you know that the results that this Government has achieved have also been the result of a work and of processes activated by the National Anti-corruption Authority, you know how many doubts have been raised by the then President of the National Anti-corruption Authority and, compared to the provision on interceptions, you also know that many times the investigative instruments that the then Government has chosen to borrow from the fight against organized crime in the fight against corruption have been defined by many as absolutely ineffective. Personally, I believe that the results you have been boasting of have been initiated for a long time thanks also and above all to another type of approach: for us, the fight against corruption is mainly done by guaranteeing transparency and efficiency of public administration. As I come to the conclusion, however, I come to the work that I am most concerned about as President of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into Femicide and all forms of gender-based violence. You referred to the issue of violence against women. I appreciate your words. Violence against women is a phenomenon of an absolutely cultural nature, so it is not enough an exclusively repressive and punitive system: this we have been asking for for a long time. You have rightly come to the hearing and made a commitment: monitoring at six months. Let's monitor it together. There are still too many perplexities. He knows that on that measure I have personally said that there are so many good measures, such as the establishment of new crimes, but there are also some critical issues that need to be overcome and other interventions of which we must verify together the effectiveness. With reference to the three days, you know that many prosecutors have adopted directives with great difficulty to try to achieve the best of what is envisaged within that measure. Well, perhaps we should first see how that system really works. There has certainly been a greater demand for attention - and this is certainly a good thing - but there are issues very dear to our plant that I would like to submit to you. I refer in particular to the issue of secondary victimisation of women in civil separation processes. I would ask you to pay particular attention to this. Women today are being accused and attacked for being unable to handle parental responsibility because they are unable to respond to violence. This is not acceptable: calling into question the parental responsibility of a mother because she suffers violence and, according to judges and technical consultants, cannot be a good mother, therefore taking away her children, means exercising an important secondary victimization. Then turn on a lighthouse on this, Minister: how are technical advices chosen within civil processes? Put on a beacon above all on the operation, training and specialisation of the entire network of operators, because if violence against women is a cultural fact, it is basically so. I am not saying anything but that he will find the Democratic Party always ready, on the side of defending a state of liberal law and guaranteeing against anyone who wants to sacrifice freedom and rights the name of an ideological or regressive fanaticism and in the name of a continuous emergency that we sincerely have to fight. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u13	Good morning, Minister. How are you? Today, of course, it would be too easy and obvious to attack it for its exits; many have already done so, I will not do so. I will not do that because we are here today and we owe it to judges, lawyers, chancellors, staff of the court secretariats, operators and citizens. Today we are here to give a vision of the Italian justice system. Yes, because we must try to give - each with its own strength and capacity - a singular contribution to collective action; we must give it. Few are old enough to change the course of history. But each of us can change a small part of things, and with the sum of all those actions the story will be written (...)...: this said Robert Kennedy and I believe, Minister, that he addressed people like us. We just have to decide what sign we want to leave. We can make common sense laws for citizens and questionable laws. You first remembered a path of laws made by the previous government, but you forgot something. I am referring, for example, to self-defense. At the time we were together with the Government: we had decided to make a reform of common sense; we had a political vision. And what about the reform of the abbreviated rite: have you forgotten that too? A reform to say stop to penalty discounts for those who committed and commit serious crimes. The point, Minister, is that if the state is a little more on the side of the victims today, the merit is not only of a single one but of many people - you did not remember it, but I would like to do so - then of those who fought to reform the law on self-defense, when we had a deaf opposition that spoke of returning to the far west or of the unconstitutionality of the norms. I don't know why you didn't remember him; maybe because Matteo Salvini was there? Maybe because the League was there? Why were there associations of victims of the crime, lawyers and academics, a Parliament that voted for that reform? Well, I remind you that you were at that time as Minister and in politics, dear Minister, you need to share, coherence, listening, mediation, faculty, which unfortunately you have shown to exercise intermittently, as in the case of the so-called scrubber. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Remember, Minister, how many times have we told you that there are more decent people in Italy than criminals? Do you remember when we said to intervene on the problem of retroactivity of the rule referred to in Article 4-a of the penitentiary order? Do you remember when and how you responded? Above all, do you remember how it ended? The judges intervened. What about the infamous amendment, tabled to that reform, which we called a "bomb" on criminal proceedings, relating to limitation? Ironically, Minister, it has come into force since he shared these criticisms with those who attacked him yesterday, while at the time we had only conditioned him in the context of a thorough review of the criminal trial, which has nothing to do with that incomplete and partisan reform which he presented to us in July last year. It is a reform that you - or rather, someone through you - want to impose on the country and want to impose on this House an increasingly perplexed majority. It is an indigestous reform to virtually everyone: associations, lawyers, judges and academics are all in agreement and united in rejecting it, especially with regard to the issue of prescription. This is a reform that is yours to say, because it bears your name, but it doesn't convince you either. Minister, if I'm wrong, tell me by looking me in the eye. His reform in the matter of prescription is in fact a kind of tribute to the ideologies - perhaps it would be better to say to the idols - that lead the destinies of his Movimento, without ever having been voted by the Italians, but able to affirm that it is normal that an alleged innocent can end up in prison or that a trial lasts forever, unless it obviously concerns them. Instead, as former prosecutor Carlo Nordio also recalled, a few days ago, from 1992 to today 27,000 judicial errors (at least those recognized), with an account for the State equal to 700 million euros in compensation. That is the reality, dear Minister, and it is unacceptable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Above all, this is the reality to which you owe answers. I do not know if you are still attending the squares and streets of our cities, not to mention the courtrooms, the police stations and the police stations. Do you know what ordinary people, victims of crime, Italian families, living in the outskirts, police forces, fighting an unequal war against thieves, robbers and drug dealers, are asking? They ask for justice to work, they ask for penalties to be executed, and those who commit a serious crime are not at large the next day: they ask for the end of impunity for criminals. In this regard, I read you the title of a newspaper today that I have printed and that, don't worry, you will probably find published in the following days, tomorrow or the day after, until the situation will change: "Pusher at the second arrest, already free" Here, Minister, prove that you have courage, show that the interests of the country come before those of a faction and that the Italian justice is reformed with responsibility and sharing and not by hits of editorials, not through a current. Put the country, its expectations and needs at the centre. The Italians want to be able to work and live quietly, they want thieves and drug dealers in jail, adequate civil justice, a tax process with a third and independent judge, with rules for defence. Please take a break, think about it, accept the debate and work involving Parliament as well. Mr. Minister, get out of the corner you've been in before your current allies get you out. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u15	Mr Minister, your report, as far as I am aware, is vague, superficial, self-referential, insufficient, incomplete and omissive of the disaster facing the planet justice today, and I will try to give some elements to these considerations. In his report he spoke triumphantly of investments in justice increased from EUR 8 billion in 2018 to EUR 9 billion in 2019 and, it would be regrettable if these resources had been or could be invested in the modernisation of judicial systems, in the computerization of the civil and even criminal trial and in the restructuring of judicial structures; instead, 90-95 percent concern the cost of staff, so nothing changes under this sky. You say proudly that you made sure to hire 2,903 administrative staff in the three-year period 2019-2021 (so they are still in the process of hiring), but forget to say that to date the actual shortage of administrative staff amounts to 8,756 units, so a drop in the ocean. Do you know that hearings are closed because there is no administrative staff as secretary? Do you know that criminal hearings must end at 2 p.m., because there is no staff who can run them? Do you know that every administration has to deal with two or three magistrates? These are the shortcomings of justice. With regard to judicial construction, you said that the protocols are being signed; Minister, a couple of years ago we proposed the appointment of extraordinary commissioners to implement the judicial structures and you opposed this rule, creating the Bari case. If the speed in the implementation of judicial structures is to be compared with what happened in Bari, we are in shame, not in a normal state: for months lawyers, citizens and magistrates have had to hold hearings in tents and tent cities for the inability to deal seriously and promptly with the problem that had been created. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] Not to mention, Minister, the prison building: he proudly announced that in a few days 400 places will be ready in Taranto prison and as many do not know where. But do you know that Taranto has 100 percent of prison overcrowding? Do you know that every prison cop at night has to check 130-140 inmates? Do you know that every day there are attacks inside prisons, where today there are 60,000 inmates in front of a capacity of 50,000 units? And you increase your detention posts without increasing prison staff adequately? Faced with 41,000 penitentiary police officers, there are only 37,000 in service. He didn't say a word about the renovation and the means allocated to the prison police. There are unarmed vehicles - although many times it is necessary to make transfers of personnel held by high surveillance, without the necessary precautions - with 500-600,000 kilometers of travel. In his report there is no word about the modernisation of the means available to the prison police, which plays a very delicate role, with serious damage and danger to their safety, as well as to the public safety and the prisoners themselves. On the civil process, in a country like ours, it is not possible to have a slope of 3,329,436 civil processes and, if the system has not jumped, it happened because much of this load is absorbed by the honorary judiciary, which was to be a temporary and temporary institution and which instead you have transformed into a structural decisive for the proper functioning of civil justice. But the top, Minister, you have reached him in the criminal sector, with the famous scrambled law. I have to make a nail here. You failed to be loyal to your then allies of the League when, in order to have the scrubber voted, which permanently blocked the prescription by creating the infinite process, you assumed the commitment that the prescription would go into force when the Code of Criminal Procedure was approved. After approval, he changed his mind and said: no, the prescription has been blocked since 1 January 2020. You speak of conciliation. You talk about the need to open tables with lawyers and magistrates; they are absolutely useless tables. While you are here today to inaugurate the judicial year, a few hundred meters away there is yet another manifestation of the criminal chambers, which has called to gather lawyers and university professors and who are telling you that your law is unconstitutional and violates the Constitution, because Article 111 speaks of reasonable duration of trials and not of eternal trials. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Even the dirty sweeps, which you have declared as the law that should have removed the corrupt from the political and institutional circuit, is nothing more than an encouragement. In fact, when you block the prescription and make a trial last twenty years, the corrupt keeps it in its place for twenty years instead of expelling it immediately from the institutional system. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] There is no point in talking about conciliation. It is useless to talk about the need to open tables. The reform of the Code of Criminal Procedure, Minister, applies with a major decriminalization intervention, not blocking access to prison benefits, also here violating a constitutional rule. The penalty must be re-educational, but if prison is for life the penalty is no longer re-educational, but it is only punitive. A substantial decriminalization: let us put our hands on the priority in the exercise of criminal proceedings and not on the obligatory exercise of criminal proceedings. Mr Minister, in conclusion, your report lacks a word I would have liked to hear in this House: an apology to the victims of ill-justice for saying that there are no innocent people in prison. Minister, every year seven thousand citizens are acquitted after they have suffered the preventive prison. There aren't any innocent people! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Pizzol]] There is also a lack of apology to lawyers for appealing them as good bullshit: it is thanks to the sense of responsibility of lawyers that this system still stands! The apologies to the magistrates, for having considered them idlers that you threatened wielding disciplinary punishment against the delays of justice that is instead due to an inefficiency of the system. Finally, there is no apology, Minister, to the Italian citizens, for not being able to live up to the high office they have been asked to carry out. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u16	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u17	Mr President, Minister, it is very regrettable that this debate - which is fundamental, in my view, in a democratic country - is being followed up with this level of distraction (and we leave it to the distraction that is enough and advanced). You know that, by culture and history, the problem of criminality in our country has been for the Radicals all the central point on which to focus (but not from Tortora, long before) the relationship between State and citizens; this is one of the main institutions: indeed, it is the main institution in which the relationship develops, trust or not, between State and citizen. See, I don't like, for costumes, speculating on other people's accidents, who stumbles on a bunch of scoundrels. The problem is that there are no innocent people in prison, but that is exactly what you think on the basis of a political vision very far from any liberal approach, which you follow - I must admit - with great transparency, without hiding behind anything. On the basis of this approach of justiceist populism, the worst thing for you is that a guilty person is unpunished; no, for me, for the liberal justice in which I believe, the greatest drama is that an innocent person is unjustly in prison. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes]] That's the difference between us and it doesn't go back this year, but it comes from afar. Do you have present the formula "in dube proreo" of 533 after Christ? Or the most contemporary beyond any reasonable doubt? Well, for me, for people like me, the innocent in prison is really the only intolerable violence. Thousands and more a year are the unjust detentions. We admit that there are refunds, but of reputational damage, emotional damage, family damage, damage to entrepreneurs in their work who will respond? Yet it seems that we simply need to increase the penalties; more prisons and more punishments, as if this were the solution. (17.12) (Follows BONINO). You mentioned the prison situation: we will do, we will say, we will see, and so on. But in the meantime, in the face of the decrease in reported crimes, we have had an increase in the prison population to 60,000 individuals (about 130 percent) compared to 47,000 places available, because 3,000 are unworkable. Someone who was his colleague recently repeatedly said "I want to see them rot in prison." No, in a normal country in prison nobody rots! [[Applause from the PD and FIBP-UDC groups and Senators Errani and Nugnes]] Prison is the deprivation of freedom, it is not the deprivation of dignity, do me pleasure. When she has six people in a cell, in bunk beds, three and three, what do you call her? I call it the deprivation of the dignity of the human being if some of these people are also the victims of unjust detention, imagine how serious this deprivation is, but I also defend the rights to the dignity of the guilty. As I said, you never hid behind more or less ambiguous phrases; you supported this and you feel that. I am more sorry - and I hope to make a mistake - that some new ally gets into compromised situations, which are unacceptable. You invented the defendant for life. All I have to do about the scramble decree is compliments, considering the brilliant results that are in the press every day. I think it's really time to change the road: it's not a small update. You buried us under a flood of numbers and figures, but the problem is that the reform of the criminal process that circulates, if it remains as it is, is unconstitutional and is a regression to the current criminal justice. [[Applause from Senator Garavini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u18	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, just over a year ago, when I spoke in this House in response to your report, I recalled the strategic importance of the justice sector in a country that has an extreme need to ensure full effectiveness in the protection of fundamental rights. Much has changed over the past year in terms of political balances, and this is also demonstrated by the Minister's report just now. The urgency on the issue of rights, however, dear Minister, is unchanged. When we decided to give life to this Government, as a Democratic Party we committed ourselves to ensuring a significant degree of discontinuity with the policies of the previous Executive, also and above all with regard to rights. In the area of justice, as the Minister mentioned in his report, we have seen, with the recent budget law, a reversal of the trend, with the allocation of resources for new recruitments, especially in the area of penitentiary administration, which is still in an extremely critical situation. Much remains to be done with regard to rights, but we are on the right track. I say this, Minister, from the left, I say it forcefully, I say it to my colleagues in the Democratic Party, I say it also to other colleagues in the majority: in the country a strong progressive front is being wound up, asking for discontinuity, asking for courageous choices, asking radical choices, also and above all on some fundamental issues of our being on the left, equality, the equal dignity of all and everyone. This is demonstrated by the election result in Emilia-Romagna. The message is clear: enough hatred, enough exclusion, enough anger; in front of this we have a great responsibility. I do not know that justice is one of the most sensitive issues for the present majority, we are doing a huge job of discussion and confrontation starting from very different positions between us. I am not going to talk about this now. I am going to talk about the issues that are most important to my political activity. The first, linked to the imperative of discontinuity, concerns the impact of the wretched security decrees on the justice sector. Minister, we must think about these decrees. I know that we are talking about targeted changes to the decrees, but I am convinced - and I would like to reiterate this - that targeted changes are not enough, because they are not enough to reverse a course that is extremely legal and dramatic in terms of culture. I would merely remind you of one obnoxious point here: Article 15 of the first security decree precludes the defendant admitted to legal aid from being paid a fee when the appeal is declared inadmissible. That, Minister, cannot be. We are talking about defending the poor, guaranteed by Article 24 of the Constitution, and we are talking about sanctioning a lawyer who has brought an inadmissible appeal. How do we sanction him? With the lack of compensation for your work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u20	I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u21	CIRINNA' (PD). President, I knew I had five minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I can confirm that, but it's also gone. I'll give you an extra minute. CIRINNA' (PD). I would ask the Presidency to be able to hand over the remainder of my speech so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. CIRINNA' (PD). Before I conclude, I would just like to make an impression on the inmates of mothers, who are currently 48 in Italian prisons. I really appreciate your passage, Minister, but I ask you to make sure that no child walks through a prison door anymore. Today there are 53 children in prison, and Icams are not enough. Let us reason together on the use of protected family houses. The last inscription I do before I file the written text of my speech concerns the transsexual people in prison. You know I've been around prisons a lot and I've visited special arms. The protection of health in prison is linked to the presence of those people and the effectiveness of their social reintegration. I should like to conclude by reminding you that Article 27 speaks of punishment and not of prison. I really hope that our government action on this is clear and consistent: we strengthen alternative measures, we give humanity to detention, we give dignity to the most vulnerable prisoners and prisoners. I'm sure we can take the right path. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u22	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u23	Minister, in my speech, with the few minutes allowed, I have allowed myself to retrace the opportunities we had in order to be able to dialogue in the official fora on its activities within what I consider the most important and strategic Ministry in view of a real democratic reform of the country. Last year I took the floor in this very Chamber to call for your intervention in the context of cooperation which should have been essential to improve parliamentary and legislative activity. On that occasion I reiterated that the doors were open, wide open. We have shown the broadest willingness to work together with two of the key points that were at our heart at the time, are at our heart now and remain our priority: the reform of the criminal process and the reform of the civil process. Since then, however, his silence has been deafening. Also in the last year, you spoke at the hearing before the Senate Justice Commission, and even then, although the governing body has changed, we have expressed our willingness to discuss the substance of the issues, certainly from opposition, but certainly without pre-conceptual schemes contrary to the need for these reforms. Even then his silence was loud. Today, therefore, I wondered why we should be here debating a lot of transcendence, in a somewhat sterile way, about his report which, in fact - let me say it without controversy - does nothing but list the dreams of a young jurist, dreams that we all want to realize in order to live in a more just country. Today, however, we must shout at the urgency of concrete actions, freed from the ideological interventions you have carried out, unfortunately inadequate and sometimes completely out of place. Let us be clear: the only reform that has been introduced so far, the one on prescription - the reform between quotes, I would like to stress - is a legal step that has had the sole advantage of agreeing with all the categories of the legal sector. As Senator Vitali rightly recalled, in front of Montecitorio there was not a particularly bad leaf of the population but the category of lawyers. We must respect these people who have dealt with the contradiction of the prescription reform on the substance. By the way, ministerial data on prescription are still waiting for them. We had asked them when we were in the majority and the request was repeated today, but I do not think there was any kind of response. Maybe he could explain why. The investment shares you mentioned - forgive me - are not that epochal passage you described, but simply a partial dressing to a much more serious evil. I recall the cry and the lamentation of the operators on the territory. The news of the situation, among many, of the Bergamo forum is of recent weeks, where the shortage of staff at all levels is now confirmed and whose deleterious effects on citizens are only partially delimited thanks exclusively to the joint effort of all legal operators, therefore magistrates, collaborators and lawyers. Situations such as these cannot and must not exist in a system of justice that can be said to be fair and respectful of constitutional rights. In your speech, Minister, you have listed a number of particularly interesting points. It pains me to point out that they are the same as you said last year. Already last year I noted the intervention on judicial building; we are still talking about judicial citadel. And again, like last year, I would like to point out to you that these are things I have heard since I was in the first year of law school. There is a very beautiful particular point, which we support, concerning technological innovation and a high quality standard of justice action. However, Minister, beyond the fine words, let us remember what the citizens want. When they turn to the justice sector, citizens want fair sentences in the right time text. Only that they want: they want concrete things and not chatter. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We come to talk about the two reforms referred to earlier: the reform of the criminal process, on which so much has already been said, and that of the civil process. You, Minister, reiterated that the regulatory framework for the reform of the civil process, on which we will have so much to say, has already been examined by the industry: National Association of Magistrates, National Council of Forensics, National Union of Civil Chambers, Unitary Body of Italian Vetting and Italian Association of Young Lawyers. But excuse me, Minister, since you are a majority with a force called the Democratic Party, which still reiterates today the principle of the centrality of Parliament's activity, when are we going to talk about it in Parliament? Is it not that this type of dialogue should have started before a text already examined by the Council of Ministers arrived at it? Would it not have been appropriate to examine it with us, as we had asked when we were in the majority? Wasn't it then time to take this ride? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, because I do not want to abuse the short time available to me. You, Minister, have mentioned the so-called scrambled law and the red code and Mr Ostellari has also mentioned other reforms such as those on self-defense and the abbreviated rite. You also mentioned a special team for the protection of minors. Beautiful. I remember when you made this announcement. We'd like to know where he is. Since he speaks of a team, he has always mentioned in one of his passages a team for the monitoring of the laws approved in the matter of justice in this legislature. I understand we're strong at teams. There are also other points which I do not have time to explain here, and I hope they will be discussed in detail in the Commission. I am referring to the issues of criminal prosecution and the reform of the MSM, as well as the introduction of the social function of the lawyer into the Constitution. Let us hope that in the next few days there will really be a real dialogue. Minister, at the end of my speech, I would like to say something that I really hope will not take as a polemic. In my previous surgeries, I always said the door was open. Today I hear that the door is not open simply because you closed it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u24	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u25	Mr President, Minister and representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard a triumphalist report, which comes from a 750-page document containing everything and more, except what would be necessary. Trees cut down without any construct I say, and forgive me the environmental deformation. Minister, ever since you stayed in Via Arenula you have been the author of many of those pastorals to contend with ministers of the recent past who, in comparison, appear almost adequate. You invented - for example - a new theory about the subjectivity of the crime. He told us, in fact, not later than a month ago, that, when you can't prove the dole, the crime is manslaughterous, as if that judicial automatism is a lifeline for the Torquemadas of the 21st century. But he did more, Minister: a short time ago he told us that the innocent do not go to jail, in contempt of the more than 27,000 citizens compensated for unjust detention, so much so as to force the representatives of the Radical Party to mobilize. Then, for God's sake, he continues to explain the misunderstandings, but the Guardasigilli cannot fail on such delicate issues. You, Minister, are a concentration of political and legal inaccuracies, but you are perfectly aware that changing the penal or civil code is not like changing a record. In fact, changing an article in the Code of Criminal Procedure is not like changing the shades of this or that passage, because it has very heavy consequences that weigh on the lives of citizens, changing it irreparably. This morning in Piazza Montecitorio, Italian criminal lawyers protested once again, together with representatives of the Union of Criminal Chambers, the National Forensic Council and the Congressional Forensic Body, and do you know why? Yes, you know, in my opinion: they have protested against the most aberrant, "cuffed", liberticidal and judicial reform that human mind has ever been able to conceive, the one on the abolition of the prescription. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The ratio, Minister, of the reasonable duration of the trial, enshrined in Article 111 of the Constitution, is one and only one and it is profoundly wrong, from any angle you look at it, the elimination of the prescription: first of all it is for the accused who, if he were innocent, would see his or her ordeal not end (a real life sentence) and, if he was guilty, would probably never serve the right sentence. Therefore, ensuring the reasonable duration of the trials is the only solution for a country where justice wants to be fair. That is why proper judicial offices are needed. You managed in the titanic enterprise to unite all of Italy, from Bergamo to Termini Imerese. I invite you to the court in Bergamo - as my colleague Mr Pellegrini has done - because it is that of my city, where the few magistrates sail overwhelmed by the faldons who cannot dispose for lack of colleagues and means. Not to mention, then, two other questions dear to me - as we said - that are the shared trust and the theme of inmates mothers. The one about inmates mothers was my law in the sixteenth legislature and we hoped that in the past Icams would increase. Even the shared foster care, in the end, has not yet found a proper resolution. In short, justice, by definition, is the virtuous order of human relations and the first of virtues is to recognize to each one what is due to him. The negation of justice is injustice - let us always remember - and the border between the two is becoming more and more labile. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u26	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students of the Institute of Higher Education Vincenzo Cardarelli in Tarquinia, in the province of Viterbo, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u27	She's enlisted to speak Senator Donno. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in general debate on the report presented by the Minister for Justice, because I want to say strongly that we are proud of the work done in 2019 and of the results achieved. It has always been, both in the past and in the present day, in the political circles, in those of the professionals and so-called information, that the air that pulls has been contrary to our proposals. No one will be surprised if I affirm that around the 5 Star Movement and its proposals there has always been and continues to be a halo of blatant distrust and haughty position, almost as if to constantly want to highlight an alleged inadequacy or impponibility of the proposals and the proposers themselves. That is not the case, and the facts show it. How many would have bet that we would have achieved the objectives for which the citizens had delegated us to represent them in Parliament? Few, very few. And to the great disappointment of many today we can say that the law "scatter-corrupt" is in force, with which Italy has endowed itself with an important anti-corruption law. We believed in it and continue to believe in the country's right to have a law that had inside it, for example, the Daspus to the corrupt or the undercover agent. The so-called red code has been approved, providing new tools and new forms of protection for women who suffer violence. We have a class action law, which has been strongly desired, since the last legislature, precisely by the current Minister Bonafede. Work is being done on the reform of the civil process, which will ensure shorter procedural times and thus lower costs than at present. We have passed an important law to combat tax evasion. Let us continue the reform of the statute of limitations, with the aim of consolidating the principle of certainty of punishment. [[Applause from the M5S Group),]] in order to achieve the primary objective of putting the citizens' right to justice and the duty of the State to ensure justice, dear Senator Vitali, at the heart of the process. The results of all this great work and much more have been clearly listed in the report by Minister Bonafede, whom I thank for the strength and determination with which the Ministry is carrying out. I would like to recall how the Minister, at the time of his inauguration, wanted to give a clear signal in his desire to be as close as possible to the needs of justice workers and to the needs of citizens by starting the initiative called "The Minister listens." In this way it was possible to open a concrete and effective dialogue between institutions and citizens and also to dedicate an open space to those who wanted to signal critical issues and participate actively with proposals to a new phase of the administration of the justice of the country. And the initiative has worked, because from the meetings with the associations, with the stakeholders, with the victims of the crimes have come to life important laws; interventions have been put in place aimed at simplifying legislation and speeding up civil and criminal judicial proceedings; organizational tools have been adopted to ensure increasingly efficient services for the citizen who addresses the justice. The efficiency of justice is a fundamental pillar for a modern and democratic state, because only if justice works do citizens have confidence in legality and make themselves a state. Statistics tell us that the number of pending cases has decreased. This is a welcome fact, but we cannot forget that it must be accompanied by another, which tells us that over the last two years, some 15 million citizens have renounced their rights. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In a modern and democratic rule of law this cannot and must no longer happen. [[Comments of Senator Giarrusso]] Welcome, finally, to the courtrooms. I thank Minister Bonafede because the scheme of decree that redesigns organic plants and assigns throughout the national territory a greater number of magistrates on which our justice can finally count is a breath of oxygen that will bring health to all citizens, magistrates and justice workers. To enter the merit, I bring a concrete example that concerns my city, but it is valid and repeatable for the whole of Italy. It is expected that in Lecce, throughout the court of appeal district, a number of 12 magistrates will be assigned: two will be assigned to the court and three to the court. Brindisi will have an extra judge in court, while in Taranto two will go to the court, three to the court and one to the prosecutor's office. This is the fact that it is evident from the re-determination of organic plants contained in the Minister's technical report and for the entire national territory there is talk of 402 new allocations, a very significant figure. I take the Salento data as an example to mean how important and, in particular, decisive this decision is. In the Lecce district there is a large number of so-called city users, a substantial dispute initiated by a considerable number of non-residents, and this data only confirms the tourist vocation of the territory. The number of registered proceedings per magistrate remains high, which is well above the national average: the per capita slopes in the court of Lecce are 1,078, in Brindisi 879, in Taranto 1,024. The capital of Salento also has another record: the procedures registered for each magistrate are equal to 222, while those pending per capita are as many as 457. These numbers are significant, far above the national average, and they place Lecce - unfortunately I always take my city as an example - among the top ten judicial districts on the Italian territory with the largest number of registered proceedings per magistrate. With all these premises, the action of the Guardasigilli to demand the increase of the staff can only be considered a highly significant intervention, which is generally beneficial to the courts of appeal, also according to the entry into force of the reform of the prescription. Other significant and valid examples that I want to bring to the attention of the Assembly are the actions put in place in Lecce, for the completion of projects such as the pole of justice with the subscription, between the Ministry and bodies concerned, of the protocol of understanding for the realization of the citadel of justice, which will arise in a modern area, adapted to the needs but, above all, significantly - I emphasize this - in a land confiscated to the sacred united crown [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , partly already used by the University of Salento. Again: I quote the actions put in place in Bari, for the realization of the pole of justice at the former barracks disused Milan and Capozzi, where the Ministry has confirmed the availability of almost 95 million euros, making sure that the Bari justice today - I stress - can be a dignified certainty and not an unworthy shame, as that represents from the Tendopolis. These are the examples and instruments of justice that we owe to cities, territories, the whole country, the many operators of justice and citizens who need to have a certain, concrete point of reference, in substance as well as in form. If it is true that justice cannot exist beyond its symbols, as law cannot do without its forms, then the judicial institution must have a place of work that represents a strong symbol of solidity and legality. This, ladies and gentlemen, was the thread I found in the Ministry's action in the difficult past year and in the Minister's report, and this makes me look very positively at the time that will come, to continue to realize the content of the programme proposed to voters in 2018. Mr President, as the time available to me is running out, I summarize my speech by committing myself to handing over the text. I shall conclude with the following thoughts. All that has been done is on the whole an extraordinary opportunity for Italian justice - let us remember - a justice that - as Minister Bonafede said - finally deals with the concrete problems of citizens and the needs of all those people who work with dedication and passion, allowing the system to live and function daily. For Italian justice, gentlemen, it is a turning point, a real change of perspective. Citizens couldn't wait any longer. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u29	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u30	Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I appreciated - I am quite satisfied - the contribution of the Minister's report. I say "quite" because I appreciated the effort he had to make, in the difficulty he certainly encountered, to draw up a report on the activity of two governments in the matter of justice; two governments with a completely different vision on many issues: you guaranteed, concrete, always for a just justice, us; justiceists, populists, demagogic, malpancists, others. As you know, in fact, we have often found ourselves in a very critical position on some measures approved during the previous government's work, even on issues that are widely shared by ourselves. Think of the code red: we had some frictions on some parts of the measure. I must say, however, at this point that I was also surprised by the intervention of some of my previous colleagues. I am sorry that Senator Ostellari is not here. I have no respect for President Ostellari, but frankly it seemed to me that he had a little'short memory, because he forgot that on the subject of prescription, beyond the conditions or not conditions, the vote of approval had been there anyway. And if they had maintained a different attitude, maybe today we would not be in the condition in which we are. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I appreciated the report both on issues and above all on tones, now objectively based on dialogue, confrontation, the desire to find synthesis and sharing as broad as possible. I think it's the investment part that's very important. I have often had a critical position on measures which, although acceptable, contained the clause of financial invariance which, in the matter of justice, has done nothing but harm. It's very important, then, that part. How can the justice sector function if we do not provide the resources that are essential for its proper functioning? For a long time I have been repeating, and many judges and lawyers have, even recently, expressed the same opinion, that the first step towards reducing the time of the trial must necessarily go through a serious strengthening of the staff, both the magistrates and the administrative staff. Mr Orlando, fortunately - and I am grateful to you for this - has continued the course initiated last parliamentary term, aimed at the enlargement and strengthening of the organic plant. However, it is also necessary to point out that this process has slowed down, in the allocation of new magistrates to vacant offices, as well as administrative staff. In this sense, I ask you to give more impetus and to be more decisive in this action, which is indispensable for the proper functioning and for the reduction of the time of the process. And, above all, in this way it will be possible to give answers to the most suffering courts, that is, the small peripheral courts, which are regularly found with an understaffed staff and administrative staff that, only thanks to availability and self-denial at work, succeeds in achieving the minimum results for the good performance of justice. We will always be very cooperative on these issues, but we will also be a constant stimulus and a pungolo to act. We therefore expect that the ranking of suitable competitions that have been banned and completed, such as - for example - the ranking of the competition for judicial assistants, which has led to a significant result, but still has not been reached at the end of the scroll. I would ask you not to disperse that heritage, which can be done with the adoption of the amendments to the thousand-prolongation measure, including on the subject of trainees. At this point, I think it is essential to mention the honorary judiciary. My position of absolute opposition to that category is known. However, I can only repeat what I have been repeating for years: the honorary judiciary is now a disease of the system. It is a pathology that the honorary magistrates have not created, but that has been created with the succession of various governments that have never seriously put their hands on this matter. Last parliamentary term we adopted a first reform, which now needs to be further developed. And it is essential to do so, because we all know that, thanks to that disease, the judicial offices today can work and are run by those people. However, while recognizing the need to ensure that those who are now in charge of retirement, as well as an adequate remuneration for the dignity and high value of the functions they perform, it will be indispensable that, with regard to the new members, the legislation applies, ensuring that, after decorating the two four-year-olds, the magistrates appointed come out to make room for new magistrates or - lively, if we succeed - the newly appointed magistrates, winners of competition, as provided for in the Constitution. Let us not forget - and I think the Minister keeps this very much in mind - that the honorary magistrates should be an exception, but unfortunately, in our system they have become a rule. I also very much appreciate the part about investments in judicial and penitentiary construction, which - as has already been said - are indispensable and I am sorry that we do not recognize the work done. Since the last parliamentary term, this path has already begun, but objectively - you, Minister, know much better than I do - you have difficulties with the usual concessions, permits and the finding of resources. It must be acknowledged that good work is being done in this respect and I believe that much still can be done. The concreteness of his work, however, must have followed on many other issues as well. Of course, we cannot fail to share the part where the time limits of the trial are expected to be reduced, both civil and criminal, and we are in the process of examining the delegation measures approved or to be approved by the Council of Ministers. Well, as I have said several times, we will be at your side if you make the words follow the facts, that is, if we are able to maintain a serious and constructive confrontation in the context not only of the majority, but also of the opposition. And above all we will be if we will be able to listen to all the operators of the law who, for too long now, with their dedication, their availability and their heavy work allow to operate the machine of justice in our country, all too often in conditions of grave discomfort, with resources reduced to the bone, in places sometimes dilapidated and with a chronic shortage of personnel. Mr President, I would ask you to allow me to put the text of my speech to the record.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u31	The Presidency authorizes it to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u32	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Despite this, our country has been and remains the cradle of legal law and civilization, a flagship watched with interest from all over the world. So let us continue the work already begun in the last parliamentary term, because we now have the conditions for substantial improvement. I go for long stretches, given the weather, which is always tyrant. On prisons, the primary task is to ensure the dignity of the life of the prisoner: I very much share the thought that the degree of civilization of a country is also measured by the conditions of the prisons and the level of life that is ensured within them. This also goes through a review of prison housing, which we have finally put into practice. I would like to mention very briefly the attention he intends to pay to inmates of mothers with the establishment of the new Icam (Institute of Attenuated custody for inmates of mothers). However, I would also ask you to put your hand on the reform of the penitentiary system by taking up a theme that is very dear to many of the penitentiary operators: remedial justice. This is a very sensitive and controversial subject, to which we must put our hands back, being very important in the context of the re-education of the condemned, who said that he was very close to her. Finally, making a biased argument, I congratulate you on your attention to the Bill and, with fair compensation, on the introduction of the figure of the lawyer into the Constitution. I repeat that there are many issues to be addressed and many problems to be solved. Sometimes we may also have differing opinions, just as we have had them, and we still have them on the prescription. His statement that we have a work in progress is very good: let's face it again, let's be sure that, with good cooperation and without pretending on the part of anyone to put flags - they do not serve in this matter, while it serves concreteness - putting aside demagogy and populism, we will succeed in achieving the results we aim to achieve. He will then find us on his side where we will follow the conditions that I have allowed myself to indicate. If we move forward in this way, I believe that justice can only benefit from it. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bonafede, I have listened carefully to your report, which gives us a general picture that is gradually improving, but unfortunately not enough. I am thinking of the fight against corruption or the approval of the code red: an important result, which helps to strengthen the instruments to fight a difficult and complex battle, that against violence against women, that daily crosses the chronicles of our country and cannot be relegated to the only dimension of the private pain of those who suffer it. I am thinking of the tax decree, in which there has been a significant increase in penalties for the great evaders: a step forward that once again testifies to the need to work in a systemic way and not with short-term measures. I am thinking of the exchange vote: on that occasion too, as in the case of corruption, I pointed out that some technical solutions would be functional to the work of the magistrates. Here again, Minister, I invite you to take into account any contribution that might improve the state's means of combating organised crime. Precisely in relation to organised crime - for example - the Anti-Mafia Commission is currently working on a proposal to revise Article 4-a of the penitentiary law in the light of the recent decisions of the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights. I hope that on this issue too we will be able to establish fruitful cooperation, starting with my own proposal. With regard to the fight against the mob, you mentioned the Palermo Convention. Cooperation between states is indispensable in the fight against organized crime and John Falcone understood it, who, in the 1980s, collaborated with American investigators in the investigation called Pizza Connection. Just a few days ago, on a mission with the Anti-Mafia Commission, with some pride I was able to review the bust of Falcone located at the entrance of the FBI headquarters in Quantico, erected on a broken column, symbol of the work interrupted with his death. There would be many more profiles to call back. We will, however, have the opportunity to discuss the many dossiers on which we must work. I would just like to mention one more: the new discipline of the fearful dispute, which is already before the House and on which, precisely in these days, decisive progress has been made. It is not new that our system has enormous gaps, the result of a lack of vision and political will. This is precisely what we need today: a strategic vision and a willingness to achieve it. In one word, we need courage. On the other hand, the negative effects of ineffective and inefficient justice transcend the boundaries of courtrooms, because they affect the economy, investment and, more generally, the confidence that citizens place in institutions. These first months of the government born in September were dominated by fencing on the prescription. We have heard echoes in this House too. My position is well known, Minister. It seems to me, on the other hand, useful to all of us to remember once again that the prescription is a very important part of the reform of justice, but that, on its own, it does not have any very significant effect. The constitutional principle of the reasonable duration of the trial is relative and must be interpreted relative to the human and material resources employed in justice, to the indispensable reforms of procedural rules that, without prejudice to the basic right to defence, can, however, eliminate those obstacles that determine the substantive, hateful impunity, not respectful of the rights of the victims and the expectations of the citizens, which is precisely the prescribed crime. It is profoundly wrong and misleading to regard this or that solution as panacea to ancient and complex evils or as the most dramatic blow to the rule of law. Let's put aside the controversy. On the other hand, let us take advantage of this opportunity offered by your report to overcome all exploitation and in the interests of the citizens. The table which you have opened with the political forces of the majority has, so far, carried out a good investigation, albeit without any inevitable misunderstanding. I want to look forward to the coming months with confidence, Minister, convinced that we can soon give Parliament a serious reform, that it does not just touch this or that paragraph, but rather that it aims to solve the long-standing problems that affect the justice system as a whole, which I mean and I continue to mean as a service: the justice service. So let's go on together, all together, at work. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]] (at 6 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, without the pillar of the honorary judiciary, Italian justice - everyone knows this - would collapse. And yet you, Minister, have limited yourself to a brief mention, referring only to the draft law before the Justice Commission, and yet the honorary judges have been in turmoil for months and are still in the process of abstaining from the hearings of the Peace Judges in these days, in these hours. Brothers of Italy considers it absolutely urgent to give honorary judges the dignity they deserve. The time for the adoption of a bill is too long; a decree-law is needed, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, to repeal the Orlando reform in order to give the honorary judges the right remuneration, social security and welfare treatment they deserve, commensurate with the judicial function they carry out, before Europe condemns Italy for the shameful treatment we are giving to this pillar of Italian justice. You have announced, even today, the reform of the criminal trial, Minister, forgetting that you announced it a year ago, making it subject to the entry into force of the reform of the prescription - or, better said, the repeal of the prescription - after the first instance judgment. The reform of the criminal trial, in order to guarantee a certain and rapid time for the criminal trial, as provided for in our Constitution, should have been approved by 31 December last year and again, Minister, there is not even the bill. You speak to the future, you always speak to the future, but you should start to remember that you have been Minister since the beginning of this parliamentary term. The statute of limitations comes into force, but the reform of the criminal trial is not yet in place. You know, Minister, that the reform of the statute of limitations means a procedural life sentence for tens, hundreds of thousands of defendants who, according to our Constitution (even if that is not the case for you), are innocent until the final sentence, as provided for in Article 27 of the Constitution. Delayed justice is a negated justice. The more than 300,000 defendants are well aware that in some time now they will be able to claim compensation due by the State under the so-called Pinto Law, n. 89 of 2001, for the delay of justice. Well, instead of working on the organization of the process, on the personal and instrumental resources necessary to speed up the process, what do you do, Minister, together with your majority (actually, even the previous majority)? It abolishes the limitation, as if it were not a substantive right of every citizen to be recognized, in a rapid and certain time, his innocence or his guilt according to the State. I am not only talking about the accused, but also about the people who are offended, who are already waiting for endless times to see their rights recognised as a civil part of the criminal trial. You think that in one and a half million criminal trials now pending, over 300,000, as I said before, are already at risk of appeal under the Pinto law. You say that so much the innocent do not go to prison, but then the amended wording says that the condemned do not go to jail, but the latter is not true either, because I am not just talking about the 1,000 cases per year of unjust detention suffered by innocent citizens and for whom the Italian State pays millions of euros of compensation every year, I am referring mainly to the third of prisoners who are in protective custody, many of whom, at the end of the trial, when it finally arrives, will be recognized as innocent and acquitted. Minister, these citizens who will be acquitted, however, have already suffered many times in prison and at other times under house arrest. The most serious thing is that custody forces people in prison who may not yet have reached unbearable limits of criminal ability. Where do we send them? We send them to prison, perhaps making them together with people sentenced to permanent punishment even for serious crimes; we send to the university of crime people who perhaps, in the end, will turn out that they have not committed any crime. Therefore, I believe that the real emergency, also to solve the problem of prison crowding, is to reform the code of criminal procedure so that detention in prison is an absolutely extraordinary and exceptional measure and not the rule, as unfortunately happens today, since too many magistrates still interpret custody as a pressure to confess or pressure to cooperate with the suspect. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Pagano]] This is the real emergency: to send to prison only in extraordinary and exceptional cases those who are not yet sentenced to a prison sentence. This would be a true measure of legal civilization, on which you, in your 750-page report, have not spent a single word, dear Minister. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Of course the conditions in our prisons are unbearable. They are especially so for the citizens I have just spoken about, partly because there are 36% of foreign prisoners inside the prisons. You speak to the future, Minister, but you also speak a little to the past: what have you done in these two years for those famous bilateral agreements you have told us so many times, to send foreigners to serve their sentences at home, without making their repatriation subject to their consent? They complain so much about our prisons, but none of them agree to serve their time at home, in the prison patrie of the country from which they come. Who knows why? Let us implement these measures, these bilateral agreements with so many countries of origin. We also have issues related to the generous contributions we make to international cooperation. Under these conditions, the real inmates for an indefinite period are the prison wardens, forced to work in incredible conditions; to them, yes, a great monument should be made, other than dynamic supervision. Thirty-seven thousand prison police officers must guard 41,000 prisoners free to move around the prison and do whatever they want within it. This is the real torture to which prison police officers are condemned, against which you have spent, yes, a few words, but still too little. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Pagano. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u38	Mr President, Senator Balboni has made a speech that has my full support and my full approval because he has put a central issue in our system, namely the fact that as many as 30% of prisoners in our prisons are citizens awaiting trial. Other speeches today have also reminded us of this fact. We live between minimum criminal law and maximum criminal law. The minimum criminal law has been explained to us by the friends of the League with self-defense, which for us was the right of defence, or we have the maximum criminal law, the expression of your party, Minister, where the presumption of not guilty does not exist for certain people, where someone has theorized, before you and from other minds, that speaking, for example, of politics, there are no innocent politicians, but there are politicians still undiscovered. This has led you to think that, by intervening on the prescription, you would take action in favour of citizens, an action in favour of justice. You have done an action of absolute injustice because you have denied the constitutional principle contained in Article 111, you have denied a fundamental principle that is time to give up, that is the fact that the demands of punishment with respect to a fact, over time weaken and therefore the requirements of the State are no longer secretive and punitive requirements, except of course for certain crimes for which life imprisonment is provided and others for which there is no prescription. Your reform is wrong. First the colleague of the League, President of the Commission Justice, said that the League has denounced in good time the risk of the provision amending Article 158 of the penal code, namely the prescription, introducing a principle that does not exist for you, suspension, but then there is no resumption of the trial. Well, in that case it is true, then Minister Bongiorno spoke of atomic bomb in the procedural system, but it is also true that that law, dear President, you approved it with them, you also approved it and now we understand the embarrassment of the current majority and, in particular, of Italy Viva. I heard Mr Cucca earlier, but you said nothing about the prescription. And you didn't say anything when, the other day, the president of the National Association of Magistrates said that I agree on the blocking of the prescription, but not on the terms of the phase, and we know that before the so-called ex Cirielli there were the terms of phase. Then we are within what is called the democracy of jurisdiction, in the sense that there is not only an article to guarantee everyone that judges are subject only to the law - Article 101, second paragraph of the Constitution - but it is the judges who make the laws because the typical nature of our criminal system is failing in a context in which we are approaching a total criminal law. With regard to this, you have enormous responsibilities. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u39	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in the short time allowed to me, I think I can only make a few remarks. I want to start with a consideration: the theme of justice is always crucial because in the matter of justice, paraphrasing the title of a book that has just come out of an illustrious jurist, Dick Marty, "A certain idea of justice" is actually spoken and measured the relationship between citizens and the State. I would like to add one thing to that. Today, when there is a great deal of topical debate, someone thinks that liberal democracy must be overcome. Speaking of justice and what idea of justice we want, let us discuss whether liberal democracy is still being applied and, as far as I am concerned, how we want to defend it, while others have another idea of justice that risks putting it in crisis. Minister, you spoke of a non-ideological approach, which I appreciated, even considering the past seasons that have gone through Italy and made justice very little service for citizens and very much ground of instrumental confrontation for politics. I agree with what you said. Certainly, however, the approach is not neutral and, if we speak of liberal democracy, we do not have as reference the need to rot in jail, the people who enter the courts, people who represent the institutions and ring the bells instead of turning to the police and, in general, the theme of the protection of freedom that, in this certain idea of justice that we do not like, is in reality nouned in an escape from the state and in a solution that can only be authoritarian, with a relationship between citizen and state that we do not like. I appreciate a discontinuity that is certainly more tiring, but we want to be proud of. Colleagues (those who have spoken before me also in the matter of prescription and others), the problem is that when you are in a government group (or in Parliament from different positions), our job or duty is to look for a synthesis by comparing us on the issues. If there is instead the strategy of the barter, it is difficult then to intervene simply because the alliances of government have changed. I would simply like to remind those who have spoken about the prescription that in the last parliamentary term the Democratic Party intervened immediately on the matter of reasonable duration of the process, with structural reforms to reduce the timing of the processes, modifying the so-called ex-Cirielli law. Today I hear those who proposed and voted on the short prescription, which is the same as never trial, as well as those who voted, without whether or not but (because waiting for the time is hiding behind a finger), on changing the prescription. We, who voted against, intend to continue to debate to find solutions, starting with the question of the reasonable duration of the trials, in order to respond to the citizens. By abusing the time that the President has given me with courtesy, I conclude with a joke to say that concreteness is not neutral, because we appreciate the choice of priority. For example, there has been an investment in the execution of the sentence and this is important to us. We think that we should and can do more. The figures that you, Minister, have set out in your report speak and there is a reversal of the trend that had already begun with Minister Orlando, to restore centrality to the process by investing in human and material resources. These are the themes of justice, certainly not ideological, but with a character of idealism that we claim and defend. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u41	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u42	Mr President, during the general debate I heard from the benches of the Democratic Party, of Italy Viva and of Liberi and Equal urge the Minister present to move forward with more courage and less justiceism. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say with respect that there is obviously a fundamental confusion, because you will find so much justice and zero courage in those parts of the 5 Star Movement. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is proof that we have had in these months by observing their work. Minister, let me tell you something: I had the honour a few weeks ago to preside over a session of the Anti-Mafia Commission on a mission in Washington, in the presence of four senators from the United States of America, two Republicans and two Democrats. In the face of our questions, one of them has addressed to me a very interesting and difficult one. He asked me: do you trust your magistrates in Italy? I am convinced - and I am still convinced - that I have answered yes, because it is the truth and because we trust and because rare exceptions cannot put the rule in difficulty. But then, for my sake, I did not go on with the answer, because I should have said that we do not trust the Minister of Justice at all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Vitali]] I have to say this because of a matter of fairness to the Italians. For two simple reasons, Minister, we do not trust you, without going a long way: we do not trust you for what you have not said and for what you have not done, for your very loud silence and for your failure. Its failure, the most striking one, was when it betrayed the commitment it made with the League at the time of the adoption of Law 9 January 2019, n. 3, so-called scrubber-corruption, in which it had made the commitment, procrastinating the entry into force of the amendment of the statute of limitation, to make within a year the reform of the criminal process. There the failure is striking and visible in the eyes of all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Whoever fails and who does not keep his word does not deserve trust. By the way, where necessary, this is the further proof that governing and working with you is impossible. [[Ironic applause from Senator Donno]] What is the silence that makes so much noise, Minister? In the face of so many proposals that come from certain judiciary, especially from certain prosecutors, you, who had the duty to intervene, to say yours and to calm down all the protagonists of judicial life, even lawyers, have locked yourself in a frightening silence that also arouses suspicions. We don't know if you're an accomplice to those proposals. I ask you a few questions: when someone says that, where the natural judge had to change during the trial, the trial does not have to repeat itself, but it goes on, what do you think? Do you know that with such a proposal the prosecution is attacked in the foundations? Do you know that with such a proposal we try to attack the orality and immediacy of the trial, which is a fundamental principle of our accusatory trial? When, in order to lighten the work of the court of appeal, certain judiciary and certain prosecutors say to limit the right of appeal for the accused, what do you think? When the magistrates themselves say that they are going to expand the cases of inadmissibility of the appeal, what do you think? When they even say that the ban on reformation in peius must be lifted, what do you think, Minister? And when, in civil proceedings, they come to canonize the joint responsibility of the lawyer with the client for the payment of sanctions for fearful quarrels, Minister, what do you think? Why have you been silent? This silence of yours is very worrying. In my humble opinion, you are an accomplice. You obviously want the judicial system to go in that direction, breaking down all the guarantees for the rights of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are of exactly the opposite opinion. However, the Minister may be mentioned with a title, i.e. as Minister of Uncertainty. In fact, if it goes on in this direction and in this step, other than guarantee of rights, other than certainty of punishment and rights; it will match the end of trial ever, an institution that is not possible to share here in Italy [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, I would like to address one last prayer: do not give President Conte the power to settle this dispute which is still going on and which has also appeared today in the Chamber of Deputies. The judicial world, the rights of all citizens (and not those of certain magistrates) are so important that it is not possible to delegate those who make justiceism the most beaten their flag [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u43	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that my speech is one of the last speeches, so I would like to use it as follows. I thought that at least today you, Minister, would come up with some clearer lines than the issues we are debating, namely whether or not the prescription is blocked, what is the true text of the various reforms, starting with that of the criminal trial, and perhaps what results you have brought home with the famous scrambled law. In fact, his report does not deal with hot topics from a political point of view; rather, he tried to talk about what was achieved by his ministry, perhaps from a technical point of view. Of course I will respect the time I have available and therefore I will only punctualize some data. You began by saying that there is a huge investment in the area of justice, but according to the budget maneuver recently approved the total expenditure of the State for the area of justice remains at 1.3%, so there is no investment, also because to get money for the various assumptions were made cuts on one side or the other. Secondly, when we go to discuss the fundamental problem of the rule of law, that is, the end of trial never, we always have the answer of the arrival of judges and staff in great quantity. I read the report published on the Ministry of Justice website. In fact there is an enlargement of organic plants, in implementation of the budget law, for about 400 units, which have been distributed among the various districts on the basis of a number of criteria. I do not think that with 400 magistrates we can solve the functional problems of justice, also because we do not forget that you signed (it seems to me a month ago) the measure concerning the 200 magistrates of the contest of 2017. The problem remains also from the point of view of the staff, because it is planned to hire 980 assistants in the budget; you have arranged a couple of variations of rankings for about 800 people, half of whom must start to serve in February; there are still 837 judicial assistants who are in the ranking; above all they have not been made - and this is the fact that I have been suspicious - the recruitments according to the needs, but only according to the turnover. Therefore, I believe that, from this point of view too, we are faced with statements which, however, do not solve the structural problems of justice which must be fair and efficient, especially if it has an infinite prescription. I would like to touch on a number of points because I did not have the opportunity to talk about many of the issues that are on the table, but I proceed quickly, given the limited time available. Minister, we have been witnessing a permanent mobilization of criminal lawyers for months. The Union of Criminal Chambers is a respectable organisation; if this mobilization continues, it is not because the criminal chambers always protest or because they are lawyers, but because there are obviously serious problems with regard to regulations. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] There is one issue, in particular, which I support, which the President of the Union of Criminal Chambers has always pointed out: there are no data relating to the prescription. Even when we approved the justice sweep we found ourselves without knowing the data; the leader in the Justice Commission, Senator Caliendo, asked them loudly, we had few for the public administration who said that in essence the problem was not about the part of the debate but about the part of the investigation. In order to provide a further element, I have lasted the 750 pages of the report and, Minister, there is a hole that I think needs to be filled. I am referring to the Ministry's inspection work. The Ministry, which, through the inspections, believes that it also gives transparency to the control and stimulus activity for the judiciary, has done few things; they are small numbers: we even talk about two non-ordinary inspections. Let us remember, please, what is happening in the courts - and I am always thinking of Asti - and, briefly said, let us try to be a little more active in terms of controlling what really happens in the courtrooms. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u45	She is registered to speak Senator Piarulli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Bonafede for his timely report on the administration of justice. To date - two years have passed scarce - the Minister and the Commission justice have finally examined and approved, as specified by the same Minister, very important measures, such as the law on anti-corruption, providing institutions such as the Daspus and the undercover agent, the law on the prohibition of political-mafia exchange vote, the code red, which also provides here tightening of penalties against the perpetrators of sexual crimes and a preferential lane in the treatment of such procedures to protect the victim of the crime. The last budget law is permeated with important measures aimed at increasing staff. We start from the judiciary until we get to the administrative operators. The innovative introduction of flexible district organic plants that aim precisely to meet those needs of the most critical districts should be reiterated, giving the possibility also to acquire greater service to those magistrates who give their availability. It should be stressed that in the budget law, sums have been reallocated to strengthen the re-educational aims of the sentence in respect of the costs of maintaining, assisting and re-education of prisoners and internees. These are interventions and investments aimed at improving prison conditions and treatment activities, as well as sports activities of the staff of the prison police, prisoners and internees. In particular, I recall the procedures for the recruitment of legal-pedagogical officials, the establishment of the figure of the cultural mediator, which to date, despite the high number of foreign prisoners, was non-existent. In fact, foreign prisoners lived in a situation of perennial isolation, due precisely to linguistic difficulties and instead, through these subjects, a process of inclusion can be started. It cannot be overlooked that, according to the Constitution, the penalty must carry out the re-educational and re-socializing function. [[Applause from Senator Leone]] The purpose of the sentence is to eliminate relapse. In this sense, also the provision of employment of social workers, belonging to the community department, is an expression of the need to ensure the feasibility of alternative measures, such as semi-freedom, custody and home detention, even towards those who do not have suitable home. To this end, those design experiences, such as the project "Without bars," carried out by the Ministry and Caritas, should be stabilised, so that the atonement of alternative measures takes place at residential or semi-residenz communities, offering a working opportunity also to those who do not have a home, which in the case of a particular case consists in the packaging of meals, using typical products and providing for the cultivation of the lands in Andria's agro, so much so as to return the rehabilitated subjects. Let us bear in mind that precisely in the legislative decree of 2018 the essentiality of the work has been reaffirmed as an indispensable element of the treatment and has also been introduced the work on a voluntary basis, that is, the works of public utility. However, if, on the one hand, treatment is to be ensured, on the other hand, security needs must be taken into account, where police personnel and all those involved in the prison administration must also live. The budget law has always provided for a series of facilities in favor of the prison police, with innovative equipment, such as anti-cutting products, new bulletproof vests, bumper products, shields, masks and devices for finding mobile phones. 18.38 (Follows PIARULLI). It is important to enhance the role of the prison police and it is the case to emphasize the epochal approval by the Council of Ministers, on 20 September, of the draft legislative decree on the reorganization of the roles and careers of the staff of the Armed Forces. It is a measure, which will allow the units of the Prison Police Corps to grow further and develop as well as the other Forces of the Order and, above all, to have prison police officers, thus increasing their skills and refining their function. I hope that, during this session, the draft law of my own initiative can also be adopted, which provides that the prison police should be part of the inter-force bodies, so that, having the status of police officers and judicial officers, already in accordance with Article 57 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, they must, like the other police forces, be part of these bodies. This amendment would make the regulatory framework consistent with the existing operational reality and would be justified precisely in the need to carry out investigation activities, given that several crimes are taking place from prison. The fight against organised crime and terrorism cannot live with particularism and partiality. On the other hand, we must bear in mind that, thanks to the Minister, special attention has also been given to prison circles. It is no coincidence that the legislature of 1975 placed the penitentiary building among the first articles, precisely because of what has been said, namely that an appropriate building also ensures a dignified penalty. The Ministry of Justice has activated a redevelopment of the penitentiary building through interventions of restructuring and adaptation of the existing spaces, as well as the planning of an increase of detention places in the perspective, precisely, of the improvement of the prison conditions. In particular, I want to stress that a series of ordinary and extraordinary maintenance operations are planned, aimed precisely at the efficiency of the prison structures, with particular attention to the use of alternative energies, the rationalization of the plants and therefore the reduction of costs and consumption. The aim is to improve the living conditions of prisoners and all operators. Important is the reform of the civil process that is taking place, which involves a change in the discipline of mediation and the strengthening of assisted negotiation, with the aim of simplifying procedures in cases where these instruments have not yielded positive results and therefore constitute only a unnecessary burden for the parties. The digital process is strengthened, therefore digitization is also extended to the Cassazione: this is how we aim to simplify the rite before the judge of peace, eliminating the obligatory attempt to reconcile, which today represents a burden of the process, and we expect a discipline on the model of the procedure before the monocratic judge. It is clear that Minister Bonafede's reformative action responds to the needs of the community. The objective is as difficult as it is ambitious, that is to achieve the functionality of the justice sector, burdened by years of inefficiencies, become chronic over the years. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u47	The debate is closed. I communicate that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators D'Angelo, Mirabelli, Cucca, Grasso and Unterberger, and No 2 by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani, whose texts are distributed. I call on the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, to reply, and I would also ask him to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u48	Mr President, with regard to motion for a resolution No 1, the opinion is in favour, whereas with regard to Amendment No 2 it is against. Allow me briefly to say a few words about the various speeches that have been made in this debate and to thank all the senators who have spoken, who have certainly offered important ideas for reflection in such a sensitive area as that of justice. First of all, I would like to start with my choice to focus on the investments that have been made. In this regard, Senator Balboni said that I would talk too much about the future and little about the things done, while Senator Modena said that I should talk about the future and not just about technical data. In fact, in order to bring the function of this debate back to what it is, namely an examination of the report on the administration of justice, the Minister of Justice comes here simply to explain to the Chambers, briefly, what has been done in a year. I spoke very little about the future, because we come here to talk to the Chambers - in the Senate, in this case - about what was done during the previous year. This is the function of this intervention. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Another situation, however, is that of the programmatic lines that I, after the formation of the new government, came to expose in the Justice Commissions of the House and Senate. There, yes, we are talking about the programmatic lines. I would like to start with the choice of referring to investments, which for me represent a lot like, I must say, I believe for everyone. If I listen to any political statement or of those involved in the matter of justice, in fact, most of the people (but I could say all the people) who intervene say that it is necessary to start from investment in infrastructure. I agree perfectly and that is why I wanted to devote at least the first half of the report to the investments that have been made in justice. I have to say that someone, legitimately, Senator Vitali in particular, says he has not noticed these investments. I am challenged that I did not say a word about judicial construction, investment in prison housing and resources. Senator Vitali, just because I try to listen to all the speeches and appreciate their constructive value, I can also understand that the measures I have spoken of are considered insufficient by you - for Christ's sake! - but it cannot be said that I, who devoted half of the illustration to investment, did not say a word about them. There are only two aspects to this, which are very objective. One is the case of Bari, to whom you, as well as other politicians often do, referred, as one of the striking examples of the failure of justice, speaking of weeks when Bari's justice was celebrated inside the tents. It's true. But I want to tell you that, when I first swore as Minister of Justice, after four days I immediately went to Bari and when I suspended the hearings, which were made in a manner, in my opinion, not dignified within the tents, I was challenged that I should not have done so because this would lead to an increase in notifications. On this, however, I went ahead, because I preferred to invest in notifications and ensure that notifications were there and not allow justice to still be celebrated in tents, in Bari. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would add: why does no one ever specify that, in the case of Bari, in the course of six months, Bari's justice has passed from the tents to a ten-storey palace? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] After that, someone will be able to say that it is not enough and continue to mention the case of Bari as an example of maladministration, however, I am very willing to confront us, perhaps in a month from now, so that this month you can use it to find another example, in the last ten years, of an intervention, without extraordinary commissioner, on a structural problem, that has led within six months the public administration from celebrating its functions in the tends to do so in a ten-storey building, where today everything works and where, in December or January, five floors already worked. In a month we can talk about it and I will be happy to evaluate other more virtuous experiences than this, if any. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] With regard to the effort on staff, Senator Vitali, if I recall correctly, you were also Undersecretary for Justice in two Berlusconi Governments: you remember therefore the lack of staff in the administration of justice. Since he has experience in this field, he could also remember how these deficiencies were created, because at the time of the Berlusconi Governments the assumptional blockade was created and no new competitions were made. Before the competition for 800 judicial assistants in 2017, for at least the whole fifteen years before, there was a real freeze on recruitment, except episodic recruitment of a few staff units. This factor has led, a little at a time, to the very serious situation with which we had to confront ourselves and to counter these gaps we have programmed 9,000 recruitments, some of which have already been carried out. These are data and these data are irrefutable. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There have been clearly several interventions by the representatives of the League. It is only to make a few clarifications, in accordance with all the views expressed, that I begin with that of President Ostellari, who in some way reproached me for not having reminded me of some of the laws adopted by Parliament. I have not come here to make a report on Parliament's activities; Parliament has adopted so many laws in the field of justice; I have merely mentioned those which are most dear to me, namely the vote on the exchange of politicians and the vote on class action. It was undoubtedly a choice, but I stress that I have no problem recognizing that there have been laws passed even during the previous government that I have contributed to. I believe that every time a government is formed and there are different political forces confronting each other, laws are the result of that confrontation: some may like one political force more, some more than the other. I never attacked the people I worked with when most of them were the Movimento 5 Stars and the League; I can't say otherwise, but this is a choice that everyone makes. I compared myself to you, to Senator Bongiorno, to Congressman Molteni, to the undersecretary of the time, Morrone, whenever it was possible to do so. It was a work on which we have been confronted, but now, if that comparison is remembered, it must be told in its objective terms: I refer to what Senator Emanuele Pellegrini said, when he said that my deafening silence would be there as a result of commitments made. It is true that I have made commitments, on the contrary, there was a common commitment at the time, following the adoption of the statute of limitations law: it was said that it would be appropriate to reform the criminal process. Of course! However, if two people decide that they have to write a reform together and one of these, from the next day, starts working and, from the next day, asks the other person to meet in order to get to the approval of that reform and that other person - I mean Senator Salvini, who was then also Vice Premier - does not show up at the meetings, whose is the unfairness? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Who has written a draft - even misjudged, there is no doubt - or who does not come to the meetings? This is the truth, then each, clearly, can share or not the result. I want to stress that I look forward - and I am working to it - to the time when the reform of the criminal process, coming out of the construction site that is currently under way in the majority, will arrive in this House. Finally, then, I will be able to know what proposals come from the League on the reform of the criminal process. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Everything I could share - you know, President Ostellari - I shared it and it was also included in the first draft reform, after which I remember that at the time, when I asked to examine further proposals, there was talk of interceptions and separation of careers, which had nothing to do with the times of the criminal trial. I think we can agree on that. I'm going to conclude. Also with regard to Senator Emanuele Pellegrini's intervention, about the fact that I should have shared the reform of the civil process in other fora, I clarify that the reform of the civil process is a governmental initiative and I have been presented to the Senate on 9 January 2020 (Act of Senate 1662). The Senate will have plenty of time to examine it and evaluate the contribution that Parliament can make. With regard to what has been said about judicial construction, I have been questioned about the judicial citadel, the same as I was talking about last year. I realized that in six months Bari's justice has passed from the tents to a ten-storey building perfectly functioning, but in a year, maybe there is some political force that remains disappointed, but I cannot conclude a judicial citadel: it is clear that after a year I can only talk to you about the state of progress of judicial citadels and the new projects that there can be. Another point I would like to address is the protection of minors. Everyone could certainly do more, but on August 7 I felt like going to Val d'Enza to meet the families who had been involved in the serious episodes that had happened there and on the same day or the next day a crisis of government was started. Each one makes his own choices, some decide to face the problems and try to work to solve them and some think that the chance to escape from those problems can be more comfortable. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I do not discuss anything, I do not say that my approach is better than that of others, even there it is simply a matter of choices. The child protection team is doing a very important job, opening the State's eyes with 360-degree monitoring that didn't exist until now. Finally, with regard to the policy taken from the prison point of view, I like to speak with the facts: since I am Minister of Justice, at least 70 protocols have been developed, in a year and a half, to allow prisoners to work and we have, for the first time, set up a central office that deals specifically with the work of prisoners. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are investing in the re-education of prisoners as the main fact for the re-education of the prisoner himself but also for the safety of the community, because we know that to a real re-education it connects physiologically a lower rate of relapse. There are those who say that my policy is incarcerated, I absolutely reject this type of labelling. I simply say that in my work on investments in external criminal execution, as provided for in the budget law that we have approved right now, but at the same time I also have to work on prison building, on extraordinary maintenance and also on the creation of new places, so that inside the penitentiary institution the prison police can work in dignified conditions and the prisoners can live in dignified conditions. I think it's important to invest in the prison police. What I really do not understand - and I am particularly sorry if the reference comes from those who have spent their lives in a fundamental struggle like that against unjust detention - is that the facts are not taken into account, because the facts say that I am the prime minister of justice that has increased the spectre of control of inspectors in all cases where unjust detention is declared. I can't, I don't have to and I don't want to go into the judiciary's assessments, because it's right that it is, but I can do my own checks as a result of the unfair detention. This, however, does not matter, that is, to know that the Ministry of Justice for the first time carries out such a work does not count and one prefers to go to take an interview in which the answer is cut in half and the part in which the Ministry's commitment on unjust detentions is not taken into consideration. I respect, of course, everyone's criticism - we would miss it, we can always improve - but I want to make it clear to everyone that the commitment of the Ministry of Justice, with me Minister, on the unjust detentions has no precedent. Surely we can do better and we will do everything we can to do it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would add one final point, because it has been referred to by almost all the senators who have spoken, which is the reference to the prescription. There is little to say about this, because it is known to everyone that there are differences within the majority on all the issues of the criminal trial, and therefore also on the prescription. These are differences on which we are confronting each other very closely. The yard is open and the aim is to ensure the certainty of the reasonableness of the times of justice and the response of justice, eliminating possible areas of impunity. There are differences on the path that can lead to this goal but we are absolutely working, as everyone knows. [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups and Senator Cucca.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u49	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u50	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u51	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u52	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr Minister, about a year ago I listened to your plans for intervention on justice and already on that occasion I appreciated your approach, that of not wanting to upset the work of your predecessors, but of operating with a series of surgeries to improve the existing. All too often successive governments have thought of turning everything upside down, with new rules that have not simplified but complicated the process. I also agree with the general approach of making investments first and then proceeding with regulatory action. It is a fact that in Italy there is a shortage of structures, magistrates and judicial staff. He is right, therefore, when he recalls that justice cannot be treated as an ordinary budget item, but must be a real priority of national law. We all know that the most serious and urgent problem is the duration of the trials. For this reason, the planned simplification of the civil process, with a miniito before the monocratic judge and with fundamental rules that will apply also to proceedings before the court in collegial composition and before the court of appeal, with an equal introductory act for all. But a fundamental part is the reform of the criminal process, whose duration often exceeds every limit. One reason for the enormous duration of the processes is the role played by formalisms, exceptions and flaws of form. This formalism, detached from the substance, is one of the most painful keys of the Italian system. In order to counter this, it is essential to review the nullity system, which is often reduced to formal issues in criminal proceedings, without relating to the effective protection of a substantive right. My personal opinion is that the suspension of the prescription after the judgment at first instance is not a negative fact. The role of formalisms and formalities which are used in some cases with the aim of achieving the prescription would be undermined, leading to the lengthening of the process and the clogging of the courts. In most European countries the prescription is suspended or interrupted as soon as an act of inquiry is made and I do not feel that in those countries the principles of a rule of law are violated. Of course, as in any system, counterweights must be put in place to ensure a system in balance between the guarantees of the suspects and the accused and the certainty of the attainment of the sentence. Among these, in my opinion, there is also the question of who pays legal expenses in case of acquittal from criminal proceedings. I think that we must introduce a mechanism similar to that of the civil process, with the costs borne by the State in the event of a full acquittal. It is unacceptable that a person who has undergone a process of some importance and from whom he has been exonerated, to pay his defenders is in a situation of serious economic difficulty. For the rest, Minister, I believe that the level of civilization in a country is measured by the conditions of the prison system. We need to ensure adequate living and working conditions for prisoners for the prison police, but we also need to open up a reflection for an ever-increasing consolidation of projects for professional learning and the achievement of a qualification for prisoners. This applies above all to the conditions of greater fragility, starting with mothers and minors, as you yourself mentioned. The year just passed saw the introduction of measures that had a very strong impact on the legal order. I am thinking of the code red, a measure that we have welcomed, with which the preferential lane has been introduced in the investigation of crimes of violence against women, with the obligation on the prosecutor to listen to the victim within three days of the complaint. Again, some have spoken of a risk of clogging that has not come true. In fact, before this legislative amendment there were too many cases in which the storage was carried out without ever having met the victim. In my work as a lawyer I have personally noticed that since the code red the protective measures have been applied more often. Well if there will also be further regulatory action, as you predicted, because violence against women is a social scourge that needs constant attention. The most negative example of regulatory interventions of the previous Government is the so-called security decrees. The remarks of the President of the Republic must be a guide for a rewriting of these measures, which are in clear contrast to some international norms signed by Italy. But we must not limit ourselves to this. Support should be given back to the virtuous experiences that promote integration and allow for careful management of asylum seekers, starting with that of SPRAR. Immigration will be the structural phenomenon of the coming years and, therefore, we need bilateral controls and agreements with the countries of origin, but also policies for integration, to ensure that migrants do not end up dealing with criminal organizations in search of new labour. Minister, there is so much work to be done to move towards more modern justice, which is the only way to increase the sense of security of citizens and to ensure the rule of law to the full. This is what a serious political class does. And, if we want, it is also the best answer to those who feed the idea of summary justice, the one that one evening goes to intercom at the home of a foreign citizen, hoping that we can gain some more consensus. It is with this hope that I will vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies on the motion for a resolution by the majority. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u53	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u54	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u55	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, I will be very brief and I will not use all the time I have been given. I welcome Mr Bonafede's reply, which answered the subject of the debate with punctuality. I have once again appreciated the calmness and I think it is necessary to reiterate that. But there is one thing that is missing now. We really need to give our feet - in this sense we are absolutely willing to make our contribution - to find a solution on those issues that are at the attention of the Commissions and, in the near future, will come to the attention of the Parliamentary Assembly. There is really a need for a comparison that is based on correctness and, above all, that has as its primary objective to arrive at the best solution not for this or that other political group, but for the country. The justice system, as we know, is extremely complicated. The subject is often permeated with technicalisms and therefore there is also a need for knowledge of the topics that are being discussed. Often and willingly, however, especially in the past period, we have found ourselves dealing with it not with the due attention, that attention that you so delicately fear deserve, because - remember always - justice deals with issues that affect the person and the individual. Criminal justice speaks of the freedom of individuals and their fundamental rights, while civil justice deals with the rights of individuals. In this sense we often forget what the interests at stake are and some have tried to make choices which are clearly questionable, dictated not by common sense, not by legal logic, but often, as I said earlier in my speech in general, by the desire to plant flags. These flags are mostly dictated by populism. It has been played on the malaise of the population, it has taken advantage of the widespread fears and insecurities of the citizens, sometimes fueled by some political force, precisely to create that climate that allows - and it has allowed - to approve measures that in some cases are objectively - we have said it loudly - illiberal. This I believe must now belong to the past and I believe, from the words that have emerged in the course of this debate, that we have embarked on a new path. Minister, I really ask you to pay attention to these issues and to put aside that legacy that comes from the previous government. We ask you to look with confidence to the future. We ask you to look at that system that you described very well. I believe that what you have said tonight is, in some ways, also a comfort to many of us who live in this environment and have always believed in its improvement and in the possibility of doing good things in the interests of the community and not in the personal interests of this or that political group. We will be there, Minister, we will participate actively and we will make our contribution. I have also told you in the Commission and on other occasions that we are open to fair and fair confrontation, but that it always has the main aim of a justice that is truly just, diligent, swift and attached to the protection of citizens' rights. Maybe tonight we can really move on and move on to this confrontation. We have extremely important issues on our agenda, which you have put to our attention very carefully. We're here, but you help us help her out. And let's stop wanting to plant flags. None of us has the truth in his pocket; let us find it together and pursue these goals. In this respect, and in order to express their confidence in your words, let us ensure that the words become deeds and we shall vote in favour of motion for a resolution No 1 in support of your report. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u56	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u58	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, Mr Bonafede, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the fact that the draft law delegates the reform of the civil process and reiterates our intention - that of Liberi and Equal - to intervene on the draft law delegates the reform of the criminal process and the draft reform of the MSC, which is currently being discussed with colleagues from the majority of the Government. This reform proposal must still be submitted - and we hope this will happen as soon as possible - to the Council of Ministers first and then to Parliament's attention. The two delegated laws contain important steps forward, which I believe will improve, because there are so many points that deal with the problem of the reasonable duration of the processes. In our country the system of justice suffers ancient and stratified problems and only a decisive and courageous intervention will allow us to face them with a constructive and decisive spirit, without the anxiety to wave those side flags of which my colleague Cucca spoke a moment ago, but with the full awareness of the importance of efficient and balanced justice in the economic and social fabric. It is precisely balance that is the keystone of an overall reform that can no longer be postponed. To intervene on the individual points, as has been done in the last 15-20 years, risks in fact to make even more precarious the delicate balance between the rights of defence and the duty of ascertaining the truth, with consequent eventual responsibilities. In addition to resources, I understand it is difficult but necessary to redefine the interest of the State in pursuing certain types of crime punished with the sole financial penalty or, as an alternative to imprisonment, through the institute of oblation. At the same time it seems absolutely important to reduce the number and timing of proceedings with a series of drastic regulatory interventions on the code of criminal procedure, for example in the matter of nullity and notifications, valorizing alternative and rewarding rites, shortening the times of the debate, inserting greater limits finally deflate of the appeal and of the appeal for cassation. Among the priorities, Minister, I would also like to remind you of the issues relating to the necessary and urgent amendments to Article 4-a of the penitentiary order, the so-called obstructive life sentence. It is important, in fact, to adapt it to the indications of the Constitutional Court, but without this questioning its ratio and its function, at least as far as mob criminal organisations are concerned. The anti-Mafia Commission, as you know, is working on this and I myself have presented a draft reform and I hope that it can be shared and brought to Parliament's attention as soon as possible. I would also remind you of the urgency of completing the long-standing project to establish a national database of pending cargoes, an indispensable instrument for justice. Finally, the importance of implementing and making operational the inmate's electronic file has been pointed out by several parties. I shall begin with two brief references to the debate that is taking place in the majority. Wisely, you are not exposed to the sensitive issue of the reform of the MSC; let me tell you, however, that I think it is a good thing to have overcome the illogical proposal of the draw, but at the same time I point out that the mechanism of the ballot does not solve alone the problem of possible degenerations and currentism, which I think could be resolved with the election with double level proposed by me. I would also stress that disciplinary action alone will never contribute - but you know this - to solving the ancient problems of the speed of trials. Who, like me, has spent an important part of his life working as a magistrate, knows well how much the expectations of citizens, their demand for justice and truth on the one hand and their fear of facing the machine of justice on the other, affect in a deflagrant way both the victims and the accused, both the innocent and the guilty. I conclude by saying that in a rule of law such as ours, the system of justice and the situation of prisons must have a priority in the attention of the Government and Parliament, without fear of making unpopular choices. For all these reasons, I am voting in favour of the motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by the majority. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u59	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u61	Balboni (FdI). Minister, I am sorry to have to say this again, but the reform of the criminal trial to make the trials quick and certain you had to tell us about it in the past and not in the future, because it was a commitment you made when you presented in this House - making it become a law - the reform of the prescription. It is in the past that you should talk to us about this, and not about the future, as you have unfortunately done today. Justice is of enormous importance not only because it affects the fundamental good of every citizen, who are his or her property and interests with regard to civil justice and his or her freedom with regard to criminal justice. The administration of justice is also of fundamental importance from an economic point of view, because we all know how much negative it affects the investments that could come from abroad, and that do not come because of the cumbersomeness of our administrative system in general, the cumbersomeness of our bureaucracy and in particular because of the infinite duration of both civil (3.3 million pending trials) and criminal (1.5 million pending trials). How much does this affect the Italian economy? We all know that very well: GDP points, tens of thousands of jobs. We must therefore put all our efforts into helping to improve the administration of justice in this country, which, unfortunately, Minister, is not happening. For this reason, we shall vote against the resolution tabled by the majority leaders, which in an aseptic way merely says that it approves its report. We do not support your report, Minister, for the reasons I think I have outlined in general debate. Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of the resolution tabled by the Leaders of the League, of Forza Italia and our leader Ciriani. We shall vote in favour of this resolution because it contains 32 concrete proposals to improve the administration of justice, to give the feeling of justice of the Italians the opportunity to achieve it and to give every citizen's rights the opportunity to exercise themselves. I cannot, of course, list all our proposals; I shall confine myself, for the time we have at our disposal, to referring to a subject which you have also referred to. I am referring to the fundamental role of the lawyer, which should be included in the Constitution; to fair compensation, which should be recognised by law. Yet you, Minister, referred a moment ago to these values and principles but I did not hear a single word from you about the aberrant proposal of an authoritative magistrate such as Piercamillo Davigo, who, in order to limit the proliferation of cases, thought well to propose that the lawyer be jointly and severally responsible with his client if the appeal is rejected. You did not say a word about this aberration, yet this is the way some judiciary thinks it will solve the problems of excessive judicial burden on our judiciary. Another point I would like to refer to is the reform of the MSM. On what has happened and on what has been discovered in recent months, on the mixture between political and judicial power, through the overpower of currents, unfortunately it is not done, has not been done and is not intended to shed enough light and, above all, from this point of view too, the measures are being delayed in an unacceptable way. In the same way we propose the separation of careers, so that finally the judge does not mix with the investigative magistrate and, above all, we believe that when a magistrate enters into politics he can no longer return to carry out judicial functions because this seriously harms the feeling and expectation of impartiality of every citizen when he is judged. These are just a few of the points which you, Minister, will find in our full-bodied motion for a resolution and we regret that you have not even entered into the substance of the 32 points proposed to say whether or not you agree with them. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u64	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, Minister, I would like to say at once that our Group will vote in favour of the resolution approving your report and we will do so because I believe that we must recognise the effort made and the commitment and some results that have been achieved and that you have rightly valued. I am thinking first of all of the correct decline in the various investments made in the various sectors in order to put the machinery of justice in the conditions of operation: I am thinking of staff, custody officers and other choices that have been mentioned in your report. I think that these choices are right and we share the priorities, which you, Minister, indicated in the report. I still want to stress, because in my opinion it has not been valued in the debate, the importance for the country, for its companies and for its ability to compete, to foresee as a priority the reform of the civil process. It is important from this point of view that the Government has already proposed and prepared a delegation law, which we will discuss in the coming weeks and months, precisely to speed up the times of civil justice. Mr President, let me also stress the fact that an important thing is mentioned in the report, namely the attention and willingness to give priority, in the twentieth year since the adoption of the Palermo Convention, to the issue of the fight against mafias, which have now defined an international framework. On this struggle, which has become globalized, our country has an extraordinary know-how, which is recognized by all, together with a great capacity for investigation, prevention and contrast. If, however, there is no real commitment today to all the countries of Europe and the world taking care of fighting mafias and intervening to prevent money laundering - because this can only be done at international level - I believe that this is not enough and it is good that the Minister has acknowledged this need. Mr President, Minister, I would like to say very clearly that I do not think that this report has hidden the limits and the problems: despite the work and the investments made, we are still in a situation that remains problematic and I would like to mention three issues, all of which are present in your report, on which I think we need to work together and more. First of all, I think we need to think better and more about the prison issue in this country, because it is true that we have valued the effort to hire agents and managers - which I believe should be acknowledged - because today there is the dramatic problem of guaranteeing every prison director. Very good also the 280 million euros that already from 2018 the previous Governments had allocated from here to 2033 for the prison building. There is one point, however: in this country, in this last year, we have returned to a situation of overpopulation of prisons. We have 20 percent more crowded prisons: we have passed from 50,692 prisoners, who are those that the Italian prison system can bear, to the current 60,885; there are 20 percent more prisoners than those expected (among them, 2,400 more are in Lombardy and 1,300 more in Campania and Lazio). I believe that we must reflect on this and the answer cannot be just prison building, and you have not given only that answer. I think we need to reason that there are 1,500 people in prison today who have been sentenced to less than a year's imprisonment. I wonder whether there is no room for intervention and reflection here and whether there is no need to invest in alternative measures. It is right that there should be more agents, as it is, however, that there should be more operators who manage alternative measures - and in financial terms they have done so - necessary to give a civilised response to this reality. The second issue I would like to deal with very quickly is the following: you, Minister, called the fight against corruption as a priority, which we share, because it weakens the state, as we say in the report, and that is right. It is right that there are instruments to strike and find the corrupt, but be careful: it is not enough - and perhaps not right - to reduce everything to exemplary penalties that also risk limiting rights. I do not think that is the right way: we need to prevent crimes, the road cannot be merely to predict more and more severe penalties. We need to prevent crimes and we cannot say - as we have been told during a certain phase - that since we have the scramble we think of very high penalties (I repeat, removing some rights guaranteed to all the other defendants). If we think that's enough, we're wrong. We cannot think that this is enough and that we can lower our defenses and reduce controls - I am thinking for example of procurement - because there is so much deterrent, namely that the penalties are only high. It is not this: we certainly need to strike those who are criminals but also to raise our defenses. Mr President, I conclude by saying that the third question - as it is written in the report and we are engaged together on this front - is the following: faster processes to give more confidence to citizens in justice. Today there is a gap between citizens and justice. There is little confidence: justice has little credibility, also because the trials last so long. We invest in staff (very well) and we need a process reform (what we are working on). I think we need to put this need of citizens at the centre. Inside this reasoning lies a reasoning on the prescription that is not contradictory. I don't think it's enough to shorten the process. I think reducing process times doesn't eliminate the problem of ensuring that processes still... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u65	Senator Mirabelli, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u66	MIRABELLI (PD). Minister, you know that. We are convinced of this and we are working together on this to try to find a solution. I know the road is difficult, but it is a matter that needs to be resolved (in our opinion, in the majority, but it must be resolved). It is not, in fact, possible that in this country endless processes are foreseen. We are working for faster processes, with reforms and investment, but we are asking all those involved in justice to work in the same direction, because we must all ensure that our commitment to citizens is to have fair processes and rapid processes. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u69	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, in the meantime I make a notation of character, of costume. You have rightly said, Minister, that yours is a summary of a year's work. It surprises, therefore, something quite singular, that is that the Democratic Party, and the left in general, that until August attacked its activity in an exasperated way, suddenly I am here today to applaud its work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Of the two: either they were lying before or they are lying now, also because, let me, Minister, your activity, from August onwards, was equal to zero (or, in any case, little above zero). Justice, Minister, as I said a year ago on a similar occasion, and touches on the depths of every human being and of Italian citizens. Being a victim of injustice is something that a person carries along for years. To be accused unjustly or, worse, to be innocent to end up in prison (and, Minister, believe me, there are innocent people in prison) is something that marks a person for life. We must, then, really build a sort of bubble around the question of justice in which there is the most absolute cooperation, or at least so we would like it to be. Mr. Minister, let's start with the prescription issue. You first provided a very personal version of how the facts went. I just remind you that the political agreement that we had provided for, on the one hand, the prescription with the reform, as you wanted to introduce, but, on the other hand, the approval of certain times of the criminal trial by 31 December 2019. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Now, it is true that we did the government crisis in August, but you were not honest to the end, because you should have said in your speech, and remind the House and the Italians, that that crisis was done precisely because, in the proposal that you presented to us, there was no clear timetable for the criminal trial. At that point, we had to break the relationship of trust with his person and with the government of President Conte. That was the great betrayal. Better proof of this, I say this to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars and to my colleagues in the majority, is that if you really had the will to approve certain times of the criminal trial you could have safely done so from August to December, since you are still the Minister in office of the current Government, which, instead, not only did you not do but of which, even, we do not even see the possibility that it will be done in a short time. This is the real betrayal. That is the point, which is only the tip of an iceberg. You see, Minister, the activity that marked it, from August onwards (if there has been one), was, however, that of a continuous decline towards an ideology that worries us not a little. It has already been pointed out in this House that there has not been a single word from you in front of those who attacked the forensic class saying that lawyers must be forced to pay jointly with their clients if they are convicted; you have already publicly said - and I pointed out this to you before - that there are no innocent people in prison and you know perfectly well that this is not the case. Furthermore, the reform of the criminal trial, as you have presented it, is completely inadequate and will not be useful in resolving the problems of this process. I invite you to come to some court, possibly, Minister, not as a Minister but as a lawyer or, even better, as a user; I invite you to see what are the referrals, until 2024, for the clarification of the conclusions, what are the lengths or, even worse, what are the judgments of civil justice that are not at all carried out. All this because the reform of the civil process also wants to be at zero cost; but the reforms of justice at zero cost no longer work. We ask you to invest not only in construction (which is very useful, we would miss something else), but also in reforms that are structural and that finally lead our country to have equal justice, I say not to the best countries, but at least in the average. Today a civil trial in our country lasts eight years; the average of the European Union is two years: I think there is still a lot to be done. As far as the protection of the forensic class is concerned, as has already been said, the introduction of the lawyer into the Constitution is essential for us. A constitutional bill was presented at Senator Romeo's first signature on this subject and we hope that you will consider it. It is also essential to reform tax justice, because citizens who pay taxes cannot be treated by alleged culprits: they must have full guarantees in their work and defence before tax commissions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Again, the subject of magistrates and politics... Minister, I'm talking to you, not other senators. I ask, Mr President, that the government stand be set free. BONAFEDE, Minister for Justice. But they're not talking to me. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, colleagues. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. As I said, the question of the judiciary and politics cannot be dealt with with with four lines or with measures that leave the time they find: we begin to wonder whether it is normal and fair for the magistrates to enter into politics and, above all, that they return to being the magistrates after they have made politics. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That's the point. We are beginning to wonder whether it is right that criminal trials should be carried out in the newsstands of this country, rather than in the competent offices, i.e. in the courtrooms. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We begin to wonder whether citizens have a sense of security or whether, in view of the indiscriminate entrances in Italy that from August onwards have brought to Italy people who are certainly not a resource for the security of our country, the action of the Ministry of Justice is adequate. I also wonder - and you are the Minister of Justice - whether it is permissible to enforce the legislation governing entry into Italy or whether only Ministers who have a surname other than Salvini can do so. Let's ask ourselves this too, given what happened with the ship Ocean Viking, that it has remained to float for four days waiting for it to vote in Emilia-Romagna. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A complaint will be lodged against the President of the Council and the Minister for the Interior. Mr Minister, then there is the fight against drugs without if and without but: we do not want drug dealers in front of the schools of our children, not even with the minimum dose. Because they all have the minimum dose or fall into this case of minor crime and yet we know what happens to our kids. I shall begin with the conclusion, Minister. You said something, perhaps not enough, about our prison police officers, who are at the forefront, with their bare hands, every day, in fighting the worst crime in prisons. On this we want to express great solidarity, but also to give active contributions so that finally the prison police can play their institutional role with the true support of the state. With regard to abuse and false abuse, you, Minister, have set up a special team, but we are convinced that it is absolutely not enough, we must do much more. I was, this week in Tortoreto and I invite you, for example, to check that at the court of appeal in L'Aquila they take away the children with the Carabinieri, as if it were the simplest thing in the world, knocking on the door and asking that people deliver their children to them. Go check it out, Minister, it's not just a Val d'Enza problem, it's a widespread misconception and the fact that you shake my head worries me, because you may not be aware of the situation as it is at present. The problem is not local, but it is a systemic problem. The extra-family custody, in the proposals of the League, should be only the extreme ratio, there must finally be an incompatibility between the untogated judges and the guardians of the childhood, who very often are owners of family homes. Minister, do you know that this happens in many Italian regions? Where is she when all this happens? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u70	I invite you to come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u71	PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'm about to finish. There is a need for emotional checks on the structures, the training of judges and lawyers, and the guarantee of bi-genitality. Yeah, Minister, bi-genitality. Perhaps it is a matter of conscience for you: you presented, when you were a Member, a bill, n. 1403, in which it was written that children had to enjoy equal times with mom and dad even after the separation, that you had to get to the direct maintenance by spending chapters, that there was the obligation of family mediation, that there was the fight against parental alienation. Where's that bill? Did he end up in the drawer with the Billon bill? [[Senator Grimani's comments.]] For God's sake, let's not make ideology, let's all take a step back. The issue of trust in separations and divorces is a matter that needs to be resolved. We can't leave her in the drawer. We are all ready to take three steps back and four steps forward together, but this can't remain confined in the drawers because someone from the Democratic Party decided so. Grimani (IV-PSI). Stop! Time! [[Comments from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u72	Excuse me, I gave everyone a supplementary time earlier. It's not that a watch works only when it goes either way.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u73	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Three times before I gave an additional time, so I am sorry that the protest comes from a Senator Commissioner who should maintain order in this House. [[Comments by Senators Bressa and Grimani.]] Please finish Senator Pillon, please. PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). The truth, Minister, is that the feeling is that justice in our country is a ship in a storm and you don't know who is at the helm and where you want to go. Citizens are exasperated, businesses are exasperated. The state is ever stronger with the weak and weak with the strong and this is no longer the time. I therefore announce, with this explanation, the vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u76	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr Minister, I take the floor with some sadness because I have seen a surreal debate: this is not the report on the administration of justice that we all wanted and I have seen a wrong interpretation of it on your part too. When you replied to President Ostellari who did not have to quote some laws, you may not have understood the true meaning of this report, as it was conceived. I also understand that from the way you give your opinion on our motion for a resolution. For years we have been accustomed - I see that Senator Bongiorno is present who will remember it - to long battles to discuss which devices of the opposition were welcome and what steps of the motivations presented by it were right; this work, otherwise, is useless. If you interpret it as a game between majority and opposition, it's no use. The report serves to understand the reasons for some of the drawbacks. When you tell me that the Icam has not yet been realized and that you are studying the issue, it means that the only Icam is what was realized by the last Berlusconi Government and there is no further story. As for the prison situation with respect to the number of prisoners the last significant constructions were those of the last Berlusconi Government (which secured 4,600 places); after there is nothing: a thousand places from then to today. Finally, when you talk to me about the fact that civil survival has diminished, I also take note of your motivation when you say that this does not mean distrust in justice. But then what is the reason? That is what the report is for, so that you can state one reason for it (and perhaps we can say another). In my opinion, it is the excessive cost of justice that has resulted in a denial of civil justice, especially for the least well-off classes, and that is a problem. You said that less than a third of the prisoners work, but from your report I understand that this is a work done under the so-called Smuraglia law because you are talking about external bodies that have been activated. It does not tell me, however, how much resources are allocated to the internal work of prisoners and how much they are reserved for the Smuraglia law. I tell you this because it is clear that if we all agree that the work of prisoners avoids recurrence, we must pay particular attention and identify the causes which may not allow them to be carried out. Is it just a question of money or is it a question of organization? I don't know. With regard to the reform of the civil process and of the criminal process, here too the criminal process is being developed, the reform of the Higher Council is being developed and the electoral system of the Higher Council is being developed. Minister, I believe that one word had to be spent on what happened this year in the Supreme Council of the judiciary. I don't care about highlighting relationships with outsiders or not. In the course of discussion, the idea was advanced that the discontinuity with the judicial activity of the former prosecutor of the Republic could be dealt with, which is very serious. In fact, I do not want the Minister of Justice, the President of the Republic, or anyone else, to be able to raise the question of what will be the judicial management that those in charge of a management office will carry out because this would mean interference in judicial activity. It would be different to say that a person is suitable for a certain place based on what he has done in life and based on his resume. When you mention the assumption that the summary process can be applied to all trials, you are wrong. You mentioned this to me in the Commission and I hope that this will never be done. As regards the criminal trial and the higher Council, I would remind you that I said that the draw was not good, and I also put forward a proposal of mine which I do not repeat now because this is not the time, as you rightly said (at other times I will tell you what the solution is in my opinion, which can also be considered wrong. However, I would ask you to reflect on the political situation in this country. I have deposited a bill that lies waiting for two legislatures that provides that the magistrates who enter into politics are prevented from returning to the jurisdiction. I expected the minister to take it forward and get it approved quickly, or at least to discuss it with the majority because we can't even talk about it. I wonder how it is possible to go forward in the matter of justice with the decree-laws? The discipline of the intercepts comes to us today with the discipline of the trojan. For those who do not know, the trojan is an electronic receiver on mobile devices, whose use has been extended not only to rightly identified hypotheses (terrorism and mafia), but also to crimes against public administration. Minister, there are two worlds here. There are those who think that justice lies in a condemnation and in the highest penalty, while for me - and I believe for all those who have a liberal conception of justice - justice must take place on the basis of the dictation of the Constitution, according to which the criminal trial serves to ascertain criminal responsibility and, then, to impose a penalty that is fair and consistent with Article 27 of the Constitution, so as to be functional to the recovery of the person who has wronged. I understand that there is another conception of justice on the part of those who always want blood and jail for years and think throwing the key is synonymous with justice. But this isn't justice. Justice means, in the civil forum, repairing the right and giving a refreshment to those who have been wronged and, in criminal proceedings, ascertaining responsibility. That's it. You cannot transform fundamental principles of our civil life that derive from Roman law (I mentioned Roman law because I know that you can teach me in this area and, therefore, you may have no hesitation in following such indications). I shall conclude by focusing on the prison situation. Minister, today's overcrowding has led Italy to be condemned for the prison situation by the famous Torreggiani ruling. The question is: are we at the same level today as we were then? Certainly, because today we are with just 2,000 more inmates than at the time. Finally, in international matters, does it mean that the judgments of the Court of Strasbourg are not being implemented? We are aware of one fact: only those concerning unjust detention are implemented, while all the other judgments of the European Court of Human Rights and the Court of Justice of the European Union concerning our procedural system should have much stronger attention. In fact, in this way we are not trusted by the economic systems of other countries and by creditors, who do not look at national borders; those with resources must know which country they go to invest in. The Government must therefore be aware of the need to effectively implement those decisions on our country. For these reasons, Minister, I would have expected from you diversified opinions on the basis of the arrangements. I will therefore vote against the motion for a resolution by the majority and in favour of the motion for a resolution signed by Mr Bernini, Mr Romeo and Mr Ciriani. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u79	D'ANGELO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the whole Group, I would like to thank the Minister for his detailed report on the administration of justice and for his timely replies. The legislative action taken by both the Ministry and the Parliamentary Group aims to bring back the principle of effective protection of citizens' rights to the centre of primary interest. The main objective is to achieve a reform that is capable of looking responsibly at the construction of a legal system that creates the conditions for ensuring the social and economic balance of common living and which places the emphasis on the first direct stakeholders to whom justice is addressed, that is, the citizens. Yes, the citizens, because only the protection of everyone's rights must be addressed with obligation and responsibility every attention in this matter. The Censis 2018 report, which has already been discussed in general, shows that one third of the adult population, 30.7%, or about 15.6 million people, has renounced legal action to assert their own right; a behavior spread across the whole population, but which in the South even reaches the most worrying values of 37.5 percent. Reasons divided between excessive costs and the length of time needed to arrive at a final judgment. This is well present to the Ministry, which, in fact, with a concrete result, precisely in order to make justice effective and efficient, has allocated in the budget forecast for the financial year 2019 and in the multi-annual budget for the three-year period, over 8,5 billion euros; extremely significant resources that would not have produced the pre-established results, had the organic plants of both the Court of legitimacy and the judicial offices of merit not have been combined. Thus, the forecast of the increase in the organic role of the ordinary judiciary, through the indication of new competitions, was carried out together with the conclusion of the previous ones announced on 19 October 2016 and 31 May 2017. But this fundamental change of pace would have been a necessary but not sufficient priority to ensure the proper functioning of the judicial system, if it had not also taken place the indispensable and indisputable need to cover the staff shortages of administrative and technical administrative staff, also - as we have seen - by sliding the rankings of suitable judicial assistants and trainees. Again I will not dwell on the numbers, but a figure on all deserves to be recalled: the shortage of national staff, at 31 December 2017, was 23.25 percent and to date it has dropped to 20.25, creating the conditions for a progressive impact on the future coverage rate. Similarly, the reformist action has not neglected another fundamental staffing arm in the judicial field: I am referring to the prison administration staff, who are called to exercise particular and delicate functions. Particular attention should also be paid to the point concerning the re-educational function of the sentence and the implementation and relocation of the Institutes in attenuated custody for the mothers held (Icam). Just as we are happy that she has found herself fully transversal on the need, even in compliance with the Istanbul Convention, to implement recovery paths for mistreating men. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Particular appreciation must also be given to the objective of giving the "good justice" a physical character, widespread in the territory, in order to respond to the requirements of protection of rights, with particular attention to the obvious needs expressed by the weakest groups, with the advantage of ensuring a safe territorial reference point, capable of fulfilling functions for which previously we were forced to go to the nearest court. Moreover, the creation of judicial citadels, which are important for the performance of this function, is expected. We further appreciate the efforts and due attention to the issue of judicial construction: EUR 264 million in 2018, alongside the existential framework of 386 million in 2019; all resources that go in the direction of adapting the functionality of the place where the work takes place and for which they must ensure adequate safety standards. How can we not recognize, moreover, the strategic vision in the path of digitization and telematization of the judicial procedures, with the opening of the portal of the telematic services, the notifications of the judge of peace and the digitization in Cassation, to which is added the telematization of the criminal process. The proper functioning of civil justice is one of the cornerstones of the legal order and also one of the cornerstones of our programme, taken with truth and responsibility towards the citizens. A justice programme inspired and geared towards more streamlined bureaucratic procedures and aimed at ensuring answers in the logic of energy saving and efficiency of the judicial machinery. In this direction, the so-called "simplification decree-law" has marked a fundamental step in the process of amending the Code of Civil Procedure in the field of enforcement of public administration creditors, as well as measures to facilitate the collection of justice claims. In addition, the bill which delegates to the Government for the efficiency of the civil process and for the revision of the discipline of alternative dispute resolution instruments provides provisions intended to have a profound impact on the discipline of civil litigation, with a view to simplifying, expediting and rationalising procedures, without prejudice to the respect of the guarantees of the contradictory. In the area of criminal justice one cannot fail to recall the firm and determined action against the fight against corruption, with the approval of Law No. 3 of 2019, which addresses the phenomenon of corruption in a rigid and organic way. The term journalistically used "corruption sweeps" gives the idea of the objective that the measure aims, namely the need to put order in the system and to eliminate corruption from the administrative structures, which are the backbone of our economic system. Another measure that fits in and is somehow linked to the fight against corruption is represented by Law No 43 of 2019, which amends Article 416-b of the Criminal Code in the matter of political-mafia exchange voting. With the new article 416-b Italy is given an important weapon in the fight against the mafia: for the politician and the mobster who make ignoble agreements the penalty becomes the same as the one foreseen for membership of the mafia (from ten to fifteen years); if the politician is elected, the penalty is aggravated and the edittal scissor is fifteen years in the minimum and twenty-two and a half in the maximum. In addition, in the event of a conviction, the Daspo's ancillary life sentence is provided. The Minister also expressed great commitment to the reform of the statute of limitations, highlighting openness to dialogue with the majority. The extreme need to ensure a reasonable duration of the processes through the increase and optimization of human resources and, as I have already pointed out, through the implementation of information innovation processes, such as the simplification of the institutions of procedural law. In the same way, the very delicate theme of the model linked to criminal execution and the dignity of detention has not escaped. I do not intend to list the numbers related to the situation of our prisons, which are unfortunately well known by everyone, but we must see what action has been taken in this area and precisely in order to address this alarming issue the funds allocated to the penitentiary building of 190 million euros since 2019 have been released for eight years. Finally, in this framework of reforms, I am pleased to point out the intervention on interceptions, which was incardinated just a few hours ago in the Justice Commission, which aims to balance the principle of freedom and secrecy of all forms of communication, enshrined in Article 15 of the Constitution, and the provision which provides for its limitation only by act motivated by the judicial authority with the guarantees laid down by law. The measure provides for a more invasive implementation of the means of research of evidence, aimed at the fight against the crimes of public officials and public service officers against the public administration; moreover, the parallelism between crimes of white collars against the public administration and the most serious crimes of mafia and terrorism is perfectly consistent with what is provided for in this text. Therefore, in the light of the above considerations and with a view to increasingly fruitful cooperation, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group's motion for a resolution No 1 by the majority. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u80	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators D'Angelo, Mirabelli, Cucca, Grasso and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 2 tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u81	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u82	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u83	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I would like to say that in both votes Senator Zanda's electronic system did not work. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u84	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-184.ana.u85	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 29 January, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 20.12 p.m.
