ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 17.02 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 18 December. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u3	The next item is the statement by the President. Colleagues, I inform you that the Conference of Leaders is convened on Monday 28 December, at 4 p.m. The Senate will then meet again on Monday, 28 December, at 5 p.m., with the agenda:
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u4	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u5	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u6	Mr Castaldi, State Secretary for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. Mr President, the news just now is that there was a bad accident in an exploding material factory with victims. I would like to express my condolences on the part of the Government - and I believe I also interpret the thoughts of all Members - and the closeness to the families and communities affected. The government is in contact with the prefect and all local authorities present. Thank you for this space. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u7	Mr. Undersecretary, thank you for your intervention. Of course, the Presidency and this House join in mourning and are close to the families of the victims.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u10	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak in this House about the disaster facing the industrial hemp industry, which is being squeezed into an ideological arm of iron which has nothing to do with the agricultural and productive sector. Thousands of companies in innovative sectors related to industrial hemp saw in the initiatives of these days a timid step forward that instead there has not been. The rejection of the industrial hemp sector is an ignorant choice. We are talking about a chain made up of 12,000 operators on the territory who have chosen to dedicate themselves to a versatile plant without drugging effectiveness; a chain that was just waiting to be regulated. In the period of autarchy fascism forced the cultivation of industrial hemp citizens, because poor culture, but highly versatile. For a nation like Italy, hemp has been a determining factor in the recovery of post-World War I. Today we are witnessing an absurd scenario of the right, which seems no longer to remember what hemp meant for Italy and the Italians. On the other hand, an amendment in favour of therapeutic cannabis was adopted, with a budget of approximately EUR 4 million to increase imports and national production. However, this is not enough. In comparison with the millions of euros already spent on Italian production, the quantity of cannabis established for the Florence plant was never reached when, with the same resources, 10 times the production estimates could have been generated, but never realized. Five years after the start of the pilot project, the estimates of the demand for medical cannabis in Italy have never been reviewed, despite the solicitations of the association of patients and family members; no checks have been carried out on Florence; no new projects and authorisations have been launched. This Parliament must not bend to the logic of ignorance and prejudice. Cannabis is a theme for those who have the courage to talk about the history of Italy and to enhance an excellence - the plant of cannabis, precisely - that in our country has played a millenary role. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u13	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on an issue that has always been at the heart of the political debates and on which much has been done, although still insufficient. This is the terrible health and economic crisis that we are experiencing, which will have even more devastating effects on Italian families. This phenomenon involves thousands of citizens: people and families who, because of their over-indebtedness, will see themselves taking away their only home or movable and immovable property instrumental in the exercise of their business and profession. That, Mr President, must be done with much more courage. Of course, it is true that each of us is responsible for our own economic choices and to pay the consequences cannot and must not be the creditor, but, at the same time, a government cannot leave its citizens in difficulty, at the mercy of banks, credit institutions and financial intermediaries or, worse still, criminal organizations that have done a real ruthless business of this phenomenon. Today we must have the courage to say that on this phenomenon there is a real legalized commodity, where the same magistrates - fortunately few, very few - are the chancellor, the technical advisors, the lawyers or the notaries delegates to draw an illicit advantage, speculating on the families in difficulty who are unable to honour the installments of the loans fired at the banks, or on the unstoppable increase of failures of small and medium-sized companies, often authorized precisely by the courts. They're made of news, Mr. President. We must intervene by regulating the mechanism of property expropriation and always protecting the creditor. We cannot create de facto immunity for those who have entered into commitments. There is absolutely no way we can create distortions towards the creditors' protection system. Mr President, I should like to conclude, without prejudice to my unconditional confidence in the Government and President Conte, and I would like to remind you that we are talking a lot about the return of politics to Parliament. Well, several draft laws have been presented on this subject by the various political groups present in Parliament today. I am not just referring to the Movimento 5 Stars, for which I claim a bill at my signature, but also to the center-right, the center-left and that political area, which today fears a crisis of government. In conclusion, Mr President, I would ask that we return to work on this subject and that Parliament be restored to dignity, starting with those who will live this Christmas with the anguish of not being able to guarantee their family that they will continue to live in their homes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u14	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-286.ana.u15	The Senate will meet again in public session on Monday 28 December, at 5 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed. (17.16 a.m.).
