ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.32 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 19 December 2019. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u3	The President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I would inform you that the President of the Republic, by his own decree adopted today on my proposal, has accepted the resignations resigned by the President of the Republic. - I'm sorry. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Mr Lorenzo FIORAMONTI from the post of Minister for Education, University and Research. By the same decree, the President of the Republic gave me the task of managing the aforementioned Dicastery as an interim measure. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u4	I communicate that on 7 January 2020 the Ministry for Relations with Parliament sent the following draft law of initiative of the President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Justice: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 161 of 30 December 2019 concerning urgent amendments to the regulation of interceptions of conversations or communications" (1659), already submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 31 December 2019.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u5	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. I warn my colleagues that the Conference of Leaders is still in progress, at the end of which we will resume our work. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 16.36 p.m. and resumed at 17.03.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u6	In the meantime, happy New Year to all of you. [[Applause.]] The Conference of Leaders established the timetable for work until 30 January. Next week, Wednesday 15 January, at 11.30 a.m., the Minister for Foreign Affairs will make an information on the current international scenario with particular reference to the situation in Iran, Iraq and Libya. Groups will be able to intervene for a total of two hours, broken down according to specific requests. Motions will be discussed on Thursday 16, on two separate topics, respectively indicated by the majority groups and the opposition groups. Each motion may be presented for five minutes. The Groups will be able to speak for 15 minutes, including discussion and explanations of vote. At 3 p.m. on Thursday 16 January, the President of the Council of Ministers will reply to questions in immediate response under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure. The general discussion of the draft law on fearful disputes will follow, for a total of two hours. The Assembly and the Commissions will not be sitting during the week from 20 to 24 January, in relation to the regional elections on Sunday 26 January. Exceptions may be established with respect to the work on the decrees-laws in expiration, with particular reference to the Alitalia decree. Tuesday 28, at 4 p.m., the Minister's report on the administration of justice and the subsequent debate will take place. Wednesday 29 and Thursday 30 will be discussed the aforementioned decree-law in the matter of continuity of the Alitalia service. On Wednesday 5 February, at 8.30 a.m., the Permanent Commissions and the Committee of Inquiry into Femicide will meet for the renewal of vacant posts in their respective Presidency Offices. Without prejudice to the necessary arrangements with the Chamber of Deputies, on Thursday 6 February at 8.30 a.m., the bicameral commissions on banks and Forteto may be convened for their establishment. Thursday 6 February, at 9.30 a.m., will also take place the votes for the renewal of the members of the Data Protection Authority and the Authority for the guarantees in communications.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u7	The Conference of Presidents of Parliamentary Groups, meeting today with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 53 of the Rules of Procedure - the following programme of the Senate's proceedings for the months of January and February 2020: - Drawing of law n. 835 - Provisions in the matter of wartime disputes - Drawings of law for the conversion of decrees-laws - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the competent Commission - Motions - Interrogations and questions - Documents defined by the Board of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u8	At the same meeting, the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups also adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the timetable for proceedings until 30 January: [[Wednesday 8 January h. 16.30 - Ratifications of international agreements defined by the Commission for Foreign Affairs]] [[Wednesday 15 January h. 11.30 a.m. - Statement by the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the current international scenario, with particular reference to the situation in Iran, Iraq and Libya - Motions on two distinct topics, respectively indicated by the majority groups and opposition groups (Thursday 16) - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to the President of the Council of Ministers (Thursday 16, at 3 p.m.) - General discussion of draft law n. 835 - Lite temeraria Thursday 16 " h. 9]] Amendments to draft law No 835 (Lite temeraria) should be tabled no later than 7 p.m. on Monday 13 January. The Assembly and the Commissions will not be sitting during the week from 20 to 24 January, in relation to the regional elections on Sunday 26 January. Exceptions may be established with respect to the work on the decrees-laws in expiration, with particular reference to the Alitalia decree. [[Tuesday 28 January h. 16 - Report of the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice (Tuesday 28) - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 137, Continuity Alitalia service (presented at first reading at the Chamber of Deputies) (expires on 31 January) Wednesday 29 " h. 9.30 Thursday 30 " h. 9.30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law n.... (Decree-Law n. 137, Continuity Alitalia service) will be set in relation to the transmission times by the Chamber of Deputies. Report by the Minister of Justice on the administration of justice (3 hours and 30 minutes, including explanations of vote) [[Government 30' Groups 3 hours, of which: M5S 40' FIBP-UDC 29' L-SP-PSd'Az 28' PD 21' FdI 16' Mixed 16' IV-PSI 16' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 14' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 137, Continuity of Alitalia service) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 6' FIBP-UDC 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 47' PD 36' FdI 27' Mixed 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for the general discussion of draft law No 835 (Lite temeraria) [[M5S 26' FIBP-UDC 19' L-SP-PSd'Az 19' PD 14' FdI 11' Mixed 11' IV-PSI 11' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 9']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u9	The next item is the debate on draft law No 667. The rapporteur, Senator Ferrara, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u10	Mr President, the House is called upon to examine the draft law, of parliamentary initiative, ratifying and implementing the amendments adopted in June 2010 to the Statute of the International Criminal Court. First of all, the International Criminal Court, based in L'Aja, the Netherlands, represents the first permanent international jurisdiction linked to the United Nations system, competent, complementary to the States, to judge individuals responsible for serious crimes affecting the international community such as genocide, crimes against humanity and war. The Statute of the Court, approved in July 1998 by the Rome Diplomatic Conference, entered into force in July 2002; there are currently 122 States Parties, of which 33 Africans, 18 Asian and Pacific, 28 Latin Americans and the Caribbean and almost all European States, while 32 other States have signed the Statute but have not yet ratified it. Article 123 (1) of the Rome Statute expressly provides for the possibility of approving, through a conference, any amendments to the founding text. The first review conference of the Statute, held in Kampala, Uganda, from 31 May to 11 June 2010, concluded with the approval of specific amendments, a group of which - adopted on 11 June 2010 and the subject of this bill of ratification - provides, inter alia, for the introduction of the crime of aggression among those prosecutable by the Court and defines the conditions for the exercise of jurisdiction by the Court, through the introduction of Articles 8-a, 15-a and 15-b into the Statute. This amending proposal has now been ratified by 39 countries. The other amending proposal adopted at the Kampala Conference, and more specifically on 10 June 2010 - which is also the subject of this bill of ratification - amends Article 8 (2) (c) of the Statute, and is related to the possibility of prosecuting as war crimes, not only in the context of international armed conflicts but also in internal ones, the use of poisonous weapons, asphyxiating and toxic gases and bullets that expand or flatten within the human body. This amending proposal has meanwhile been ratified by 38 countries, including the European countries already mentioned earlier. The draft law ratifying the amendments to the Statute of the International Criminal Court consists of three articles and no economic burden arises from the implementation of the measure. The bill, as a parliamentary initiative, lacks the tools of technical analysis that usually accompany those of government initiative, i.e. the technical-regulatory analysis, that of the establishment of regulations and of the technical-financial relationship. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, I would kindly ask you to lower the voice of your fellow Members, because it seems to be in a pub in Caracas, not in the Senate Chamber. [[Call the president back.]] Despite the absence of such instruments, it is evident that ratification of the agreement should not in any case present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, with the European Union's legal order and with the other international obligations assumed by Italy, resulting in the text in question closely related to the other international legal instruments in criminal matters already signed by our country. In conclusion, it is proposed that the draft law be approved by the Assembly and I take this opportunity to thank my colleague Alberto Airola for making possible this important ratification, which makes us take a step forward in relation to the barbarism that we have all too often had to witness. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u11	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u14	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, there are several countries that have been brought to the attention of the International Criminal Court of the Hague following dramatic events within their borders. (17.15) (Follows Garavini). Some examples are Uganda's, with the trial and the charge of crimes against humanity in Dominic Ongwen, the commander, a former child soldier, who killed tens of thousands of innocent people in that country and neighbouring countries and turned children into soldiers or war slaves; another is Mali, where - thanks to the International Criminal Court - the trial and the condemnation of jihadist Ahmad al-Faqi al-Mahdi, for having destroyed part of the cultural heritage of that state; then there is Sudan, whose President the Court demanded arrest for genocide and war crimes related to the Darfur crisis. These are just examples of how important, important and important the Institute of the International Criminal Court is. At the time, in 1998, with the signing of the Rome Statute, it was called the institution, but the process of defining its coordinates was not completed: this is why, with the ratification of the measure under consideration, the amendments to the Statute adopted in Kampala in June 2010 are approved. These are appropriate amendments, which will provide the criminal court with important instruments precisely to point out how important it is that, even at international level, action should be taken where serious crimes against humanity are committed. The topicality of these hours and these days makes this ratification even more important. Mr President, when I request that the full text of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting, I declare the vote in favour of Italy Viva-PSI. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u15	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u16	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u18	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, 21 years ago, in July 1998 the Statute establishing the International Criminal Court was signed in Rome, and we were among the first to sign and ratify it the following year. This was not the case with amendments to the Statute which were adopted - as the rapporteur pointed out - in 2010, but still not ratified. It has been tried in the last parliamentary term and not in this. Why is it important and represents a step forward, beyond the difficulties that may arise in activating it? In fact, in the initial draft we were talking about "genocide," "crimes against humanity" and "crimes against peace," but the crime of "aggression" was not defined, that is, when crimes against humanity are perpetrated in a state-to-state war. The amendments make it possible at this point to identify the types of crimes committed and how to activate the investigation. It is not easy, it is rather complicated, because it takes two thirds of the members to bring the case before the Court, i.e. those who have signed (and there are now so many, because there are so many more than one hundred), just as it is necessary for the investigation to have had a green light from the UN Security Council. Why is it important, despite these difficulties? Because it represents a strengthening of international institutions, which sometimes manage to make available instruments that individual states are unable to put in place precisely to prosecute crimes against humanity, genocide or other types of particularly heinous crimes. It allows in some way to bring to judgment, at the International Criminal Court, the summits of the state and the military summits. Therefore, despite the difficulties, the instruments of international law are symbolically strengthened and the International Criminal Court is strengthened. So I think it is important, despite the delay of nine years, to ratify the amendments to the Statute signed in Kampala. That is why the Democratic Party's vote can only be favourable. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u19	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u21	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I have listened to the introductory report and the brief explanations of vote on this draft law, which - as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out - is a parliamentary initiative. The first question I ask myself is why priority has been given to a bill of parliamentary initiative, when there are many ratifications of government initiative, even more "older" from the point of view of the date of subscription, but they lie in the Commission. Our Group does not support the ratification of these amendments and I repeat on these amendments, because the Lega Group is absolutely in agreement with the spirit of the International Criminal Court, where it is going to punish particularly important war crimes. From the debate that has been held in the Commission and even today, I assume that perhaps we are not realizing what we are going to vote on. In particular, Article 8-a, which is one of the subject of these amendments, introduces something dramatically close to the concept of objective responsibility that exists in our legal system: when Article 8-a introduces the crime of aggression, so it is said that the person who has a position to exercise effective political or military control is being persecuted, and this is a binding limitation in order to ensure that the proceedings are carried out before the International Criminal Court, this body is being given a very large and extremely delicate power. And unfortunately we have seen too often that these institutions are sometimes not linear in certain decisions. We fully agree that it is appropriate to provide the particularly strict rules to ensure that the perpetrators are affected, but I also see that this House does not realize what we are doing and the importance of the rules that we are going to vote on. These measures, moreover, have received some criticism, not from the political side to which I belong, but from scholars and academics of all nations, who have first diminished the fact that concrete application will be extremely limited, because these binding limitations will make it virtually impossible to apply this rule in practice. Then there is another rule, in Article 15-a, which perhaps has not been stressed enough. We should stress that this rule applies only to those Member States which have materially ratified the amendments. All right, because up to now there are about thirty of them who have ratified them, but then there is a clause, the so-called output clause, in which it is said that if a ratificationing State believes that it should disassociate itself, this cannot be the subject of a measure within the International Criminal Court. Well, I do not think we should use the instrument of ratifications, as we usually do in these classrooms, voting as it were in a closed box, without going specifically and without understanding the effects from the legal point of view (because here we are talking about a criminal court) and without understanding the real effects on individual states in the world that could be affected in the future by really difficult situations. On the other hand, I believe that we could give the international institutions a real boost if we too, in our seats, were to pay more attention to the rules that we are going to adopt. Indeed, if the application is correct, we are truly pursuing the principles of international law. I repeat that our Group absolutely wants to be the protagonist and is not, as I have been told, in favour of the genocides, because they are phrases that have been spoken in these classrooms and in these corridors and that I reject absolutely. I believe, however, that before ratifying such amendments in a closed box, the House should have made a more detailed political reflection and understood why it was necessary to go through a parliamentary initiative and not instead from a government initiative, which could have foreseen the possibility of perhaps going to discuss these amendments in more depth and above all, to understand what their real implementation was. Only for these purely legal reasons will our Group not accede to this ratification. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u22	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u24	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, this ratification introduces important amendments to the Statute of the International Criminal Court, particularly on one point. The International Criminal Court has jurisdiction over four types of crime: crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression, and while of the first three there was already a clear finding that described the type of crime and behavior that is being pursued, in the case of the crime of aggression this was not there. The amendments introduce a precise definition of this crime, and this is undoubtedly a step forward from the legal point of view, because not only a rule must be adopted before it is applied, but it must then be clearly defined. In fact, if we speak vaguely only of aggression, without specifying anything else, the norm lends itself to the most varied exploitations. I listened carefully to the speech by Senator Emanuele Pellegrini, who, however, denounced some shortcomings even after the introduction of the amendments to the rule. It is true, however, that, in any case, we believe it is preferable to define, perhaps even not entirely satisfactory, the rules that do not always guarantee the application of these measures, rather than a rule so vague that it lends itself, yes, to any kind of exploitation and politicization of an action that should be aimed at the objective and impartial application of the law. In addition, given some positions taken by certain international bodies, I do not think it is even so negative that there is a restriction on the scope of the International Criminal Court. If, on the one hand, this can certainly give rise to some cases in which certain crimes should be prosecuted and certain persons responsible for these crimes should be struck, on the other hand, it prevents the whole of the action of the International Criminal Court from coming to grips with the objective difficulties of implementation. In fact, there are some very important states in the world that would not accept in any case a rule involving the indictment before an International Criminal Court of their own soldiers or political decision-makers. Thanks to these amendments the rules are applicable, because they are accepted by the most important states in the world, and they are also limited, rendering a good service to the law, as well as to the task that the International Criminal Court itself has. The Forza Italia Group will therefore vote in favour of the ratification measure in our examination. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u25	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u27	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here is an uncommon ratification, which is very important. I think it is fundamental, even if it is a small step. Today we are filling a serious gap in international law and peace in the world, a world that - as we see - is on the brink of the abyss today. The ratification that we are going to approve is aimed at making the role of the International Criminal Court of the Hague more effective, born right here in Rome twenty-two years ago, as you heard, by introducing four amendments to the Statute of the Court which were approved in Kampala, Uganda, in 2010. It is finally defined and thus in fact introduced a fourth and new fundamental crime placed under the jurisdiction of the International Criminal Court, in addition to war crimes, crimes against humanity and genocide: it is the crime of aggression. It is established that the Court can act against political and military leaders responsible for the facts, even if they belong to countries that have not ratified Kampala's amendments, on condition of a referral by the UN Security Council. Among other things, the way in which aggression is claimed is defined precisely by the UN Security Council, so there are no regulatory gaps. Over the past twenty years, the Court has dealt with the horrible crimes committed in Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo, Darfur, the Central African Republic, Kenya, Libya, Mali, Ivory Coast, Georgia and Burundi. These crimes go far beyond national jurisprudence and concern the whole world community for their heinousness. An effective international justice instrument is an important deterrent that saves thousands of lives, protects peace and global stability and ensures greater respect for human rights. So far 39 countries have ratified Kampala's amendments to the Rome Statute, but not Italy. Finally, it is time for our country, with this ratification, to return to the front line in the world and in Europe for the protection of international peace and respect for fundamental human rights. We at Movimento 5 Stars have already committed ourselves, since the last parliamentary term, to Italy completing this path by inviting all Member States to do the same. Many, in Italy and abroad, are still opposed to a supranational body, autonomous from the UN and, therefore, from the overpower of the members of the Security Council, which has the power to dismiss Heads of State and intervene in international crises. This opposition, however, has no reason to be, especially taking into account the many stakes (in our opinion too many) that govern the activities of the International Criminal Court. The Court, in fact, has jurisdiction only over the States signatory to the 1998 Rome Statute and any Member State - as you have already heard - can leave at any time. With regard to jurisdiction relating to the new crime of aggression, it can only be exercised when there is a referral from the UN Security Council, otherwise only political-military leaders of states who have ratified Kampala's amendments can be brought before the Court. We are, therefore, faced with a very limited step forward in the protection of international law, but this is a very significant step in terms of international awareness for the defence of the weakest and the persecuted. Italy with this ratification gives a strong and unequivocal sign in this direction and for the protection of international peace, today as never in danger. It does so pragmatically in this House, so that all the fine words written in the Treaties - starting with the Charter of Human Rights to arrive at the Statute of the International Criminal Court itself - do not remain ink on paper, but finally become guiding words for a better world. For this reason I proudly announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u28	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u29	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1172. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u30	Mr President, the ratification contained in the Senate Act that we are about to vote on today is a classic protocol of convention between the Government of the Italian Republic and the Government of the Gabonese Republic to avoid double taxation of income taxes and to prevent tax evasion, made in Libreville on 28 June 1999. As the text is very short, I will read it completely, partly because the comments I could make on it would probably be longer. The Assembly is called upon to examine the bill of ratification and enforcement of the Convention between Italy and the Republic of Gabon in order to avoid double taxation and prevent tax evasion. I remember that Gabon, a former French colony, independent since 1960, is a central African state of 1.5 million inhabitants, overlooking the Gulf of Guinea and nestled between Cameroon and Congo-Brazzaville. Semi-presideential Republic, has a bicameral parliament composed of a Senate of 66 members and a Assembly of 153 and can boast abundant natural resources and considerable foreign investments such as to potentially make it one of the richest countries of the entire African continent. The Convention today meets the need to regulate in a more effective and balanced way the fiscal aspects of economic relations between the two countries, in order to eliminate the phenomenon of double taxation, to prevent tax evasion - which is very important - and to place Italian investors in a privileged position compared to economic operators of other nationalities: another fundamental thing. The Agreement, which consists of 30 articles divided into six chapters and a protocol, refers to the OECD model tax convention and applies to natural and legal persons resident in the Contracting States (Article 1), only to income tax (Article 2), and - for the Italian part - to income tax of natural persons (Irpef), corporate income tax (Ires) and regional production tax (IRAP). The bill of ratification consists of three articles. There are no effects for the Italian Erario. The text does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation, European law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u31	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u34	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am speaking only to declare the Italian Viva-PSI Group's vote in favour. As the rapporteur explained, this is a useful measure, since it is going to ratify a series of directives on fiscal regulation between our country and the Republic of Gabon. It refers to the income tax of individuals, the income tax on legal persons, the regional tax on production activities. It provides for corporate profits to be taxable in the State of residence of the undertaking. So, in essence, it goes to define, black and white, a series of regulations that between the two countries would not be at all taken for granted, starting also from the prohibition of double taxation. Moreover, it regulates a whole series of issues concerning the reception of pensions also of particular classes of workers, such as, for example, teachers and teachers, who are some of the Italian professionalism most present in the country. In essence, it should be ratified more than ten years after the adoption of this Convention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u37	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I am voting in favour on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u40	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it is one of those ratifications that is being discussed in a common way, with many others and which unfortunately - as my colleague Mr Pellegrini said just now - escapes a little from the debate. In fact, the theme is actually very important, especially for our country. In this regard, I would point out that the Convention was adopted in Libreville on 28 June 1999. So, although very important, some time has passed before it was ratified, as unfortunately often happens. This Convention, on the subject of double taxation, is important because Italy represents the third country for investments in the Continent and the seventh trading partner, with an annual exchange value of 31 billion. So, the country plays an important role in our trade balance. We know that Africa will have a strong development over the next twenty years, with exponential growth and this will only move along that path we have been talking about for a long time. Even for the real management of immigration it is important to have a solid economic relationship with the African continent that offers concrete prospects for growth and also favours the permanence of young Africans in their own countries, as well as the return of those who emigrate to Europe, remembering that the serious hemorrhaging of the labour force in Africa, caused by mass emigration, is a tragedy in the first place for the African continent itself. Finally, I would like to mention another important aspect, namely the fact that Italy is among the few OECD countries that have concluded international agreements of this kind with Gabon. This puts Italian investors in a privileged position compared to economic operators of other nationalities. For these reasons, I declare the vote in favour of the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u43	FERRARA (M5S). Mr President, the important Convention under consideration regulates the tax aspects of economic relations between residents of the two States, achieving a more efficient and balanced distribution of tax matters. The fact that Italy is among the few OECD countries to have concluded such international agreements with Gabon puts Italian investors in a privileged position. On the other hand, in recent years our country has ratified several Conventions of this particular case with many countries, having as its reference precisely the OECD model. The agreement we are voting on today concerns natural and legal persons resident in Italy and Gabon and is limited to taxation of income. The Convention lays down the principles of taxation which cover a variety of economic fields: from corporate income, to employees' income, from the sale of buildings, to aircraft and ships, including royalties, income and pensions. All taxes introduced in Italy before and after the signing of the agreement are considered and are regulated both the cases of residence in one of the two countries and those of double residence. As Movimento 5 Stars we consider these fundamental agreements to stimulate our economic cooperation with other States and necessary to give clarity to taxpayers about the type of taxation applied with individual States. It is also important to stimulate new mutual investment with a broad scope and, above all, to stimulate our companies towards internationalisation. In this direction goes the work of our minister Luigi Di Maio with tangible results also in other global areas. Announcement, therefore, the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Star Group in the Senate. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u44	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u45	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-179.ana.u46	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 15 January, at 11.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.47 p.m.
