ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u4	The next item is: Communication from the President of the Council of Ministers with a view to the extraordinary European Council of 20 February 2020 and subsequent discussion thereof. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u5	Mr President, kind senators and senators, in accordance with Parliament's central role, I felt it necessary to update you in view of tomorrow's extraordinary Council in Brussels, which will be devoted, as planned, to the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. I believe it is essential, as happened on the eve of the previous European Councils at which the multiannual financial framework was on the agenda, that my participation in the negotiations should be preceded by a thorough debate in Parliament, even if this is an extraordinary Council, and that the President's communication, with a strict regulatory reference, is not necessary. The European Council is called upon to reach an agreement on the quality and quantity of the European budget, which, in the seven years ahead, will serve to implement the policies of the European Union. A characteristic feature of this negotiation is that the objectives of European policies, in the period 2021-2027, have a high impact on all areas of life of the citizens of our country and of the entire continent, and this happens within a scenario characterized by the exit of the United Kingdom from the European Union and by increasing tensions characterized by a marked neo-protectionist trait. European policies will face complex challenges in the coming seven years. I quote a few: the green transition, the European government of migration flows, the revival of growth and employment. After the long economic crisis, which has accentuated territorial disparities and exacerbated inequalities, cohesion policy must, more than in the past, help restore convergence between territories and ensure greater and more dignified employment opportunities, especially for young people. The Common Agricultural Policy should continue to protect an important sector of the European economy, while safeguarding and enhancing natural and cultural heritage, including in the context of the green transition. In the face of these complex challenges, what is the situation of the negotiations before the meeting tomorrow that the President of the European Council, Charles Michel, would like to see concluded? Let us answer that question. With regard to the situation in the negotiations, the proposal which President Michel circulated on 14 February brings some - let me stress - slight progress on the previous negotiating framework of the Finnish Presidency, which had been strongly criticized - it has not escaped you - by many Member States, the Commission and the European Parliament. It is welcome, for example, that the simplification effort should continue (reduce the European programmes from 58 to 37 compared to the current programming) and that the budget should be modernised, and that the spending targets for environmental protection measures should be reiterated. However, President Michel's proposal remains inadequate to achieve the Union's objectives defined by the strategic agenda of the leaders and the programme of the President of the European Commission. Tomorrow's summit in Brussels therefore promises to be complex and complicated, because it is based on a proposal that does not reflect the expectations of providing the European Union with innovative instruments or even only adapted to the high stakes on priorities, both the "traditional" ones and the "new" ones. This concern is also shared by the European Parliament which, as Presidents Sassoli and Von der Leyen have already pointed out to me in Brussels on Tuesday 4 February, would not hesitate to reject an inadequate budget on objectives and policies such as growth, work, green transition, cohesion, the common agricultural policy and migration. Yesterday morning there was a meeting of President Michel, with the presidents of the political groups and with the Commission on the budget, which confirmed all the concerns on the part of the Members of Parliament who spoke with President Michel, as we have been told. With regard to the Italian approach, at this extraordinary European Council I would first like to draw attention to the qualifying aspects of our position, which remains consistent with what I outlined last December and with the resolution adopted by this Parliament at the time on the subject of the European budget. Italy aims at an adequate overall budget volume, a correct distribution of resources between traditional policies and new priorities, the establishment of fair allocation criteria and the reform of revenue. I cannot hide, therefore, our dissatisfaction with the negotiating proposal that will be brought to the table tomorrow, with the outcome of the General Affairs Council meeting ahead of the European Council. Italy is a net contributor to the Union. It is not willing to accept a compromise at all costs, although our negative net balance will decrease significantly - attention - with the next Multiannual Financial Framework (from -0.27% of Europe's gross national income to 27, equal to about 4.6 billion annual net contribution, to -0.17%, or about 3 billion). In his proposal, the President of the European Council allocates to the budget resources of 1,074 percent of European gross national income, or around 1,095 billion euros (at 2018 prices): in fact, as you will remember, it is the Finnish proposal (1.087 billion euros), to which is added the Just transition fund, of 7,5 billion, which fully transposes the request that the European Commission submitted last 14 January. In order to strengthen the internal market, we see an increase in the budget for the European Space Programme and the definition of allocations for the Erasmus+ programme (EUR 21 billion). The resources to be allocated to Digital Europe, amounting to EUR 6.7 billion, and to InvestEU, amounting to EUR 11.3 billion, are then clarified, but to a lesser extent than the most valid proposal, in our view, made by the Commission in 2018. They do not take into account the key role of these instruments in promoting private investment, in particular in promoting innovation and green transition. Moreover, our dissatisfaction with the further reduction of Horizon Europe's budget remains, in particular due to the lack of compensation for the cuts suffered by Connecting Europe facility in its chapters dedicated to energy and digital. As regards security and defence, an increase in the European Defence Fund budget, the proposal combines an incomprehensible setback on the military mobility programme. As far as migration is concerned, the substantial decline in the resources allocated to Frontex is consistent with our hope that resources and objectives will be proportionate. Our international cooperation instrument, whose acronym in English is NDICI, and the flexibility necessary for its correct and effective use in an international geopolitical context characterized by increasing uncertainty, deserve support. The European Union must take a more profiled role as a global actor. To this end, cooperation with the neighbourhood, the Mediterranean and sub-Saharan Africa must be properly financed. The stability of these areas is crucial for the safety of all. International cooperation is another concrete example of how, by pooling resources, better results can be achieved than those produced by individual initiatives of the Member States. I would now like to focus on what Michel's negotiating proposal provides for with regard to traditional policies, in particular cohesion and the common agricultural policy. With regard to cohesion, the proposal contains some changes to the allocation criteria which, in part, meet the demands that the Italian Government has made at all levels, in line with the convergence objectives, both economic and social, between European territories, which this policy must contribute to achieving. Let us start with: a distribution of resources which reduces allocations to the richer Member States and which takes into account the actual development of the growth of the territories; the maintenance of an updated statistical basis for calculating allocations; the possibility of defining at regional level the levels of thematic concentration of resources to be allocated to the Union's objectives; the increase in the Union's share of funding for the less developed regions. One of the most important indicators for us, the relative prosperity index for the less developed regions of medium-income countries such as Italy, has finally grown, although, in our opinion, still not enough (only 5 cents of point). Among the negative aspects, I must mention the unjustified reduction of the European Social Fund plus, the main instrument through which to prevent and cushion the negative effects of the transition, not only green but also digital, on the European social fabric. Among the cohesion funds, the budgetary instrument for competitiveness and convergence, known as the BICC, which, thanks to the action of the government in the negotiation, is based on shared allocation criteria and to us, on the whole, is favourable. Italy would be the net beneficiary of this instrument, with a return of more than 17% (equivalent to more than 2.2 billion euros in the sevententh). The funds obtained through the BICC will make it possible to finance the national programme of structural reforms and public investment in the framework of the European Semester. However, our positive view is tempered by the fact that the overall budget remains modest (EUR 12.9 billion). Italy will therefore insist that in the future a refinancing is possible that increases the overall resources available and introduces a more robust stabilisation function. At present, a stabilising element lies in the possibility of reducing the national co-financing rate in situations of severe economic downturn. On the expenditure heading for the Common Agricultural Policy, we have various concerns about the reduction of the Rural Development Fund, which, as you know, contributes decisively to the modernisation of the agricultural sector and the environmental objectives of the European Union. Moreover, the allocations for two other instruments of particular importance to our country are not specified: the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund and the LIFE programme, which protects nature and biodiversity. The focus on the development of rural areas and the protection of quality agriculture, aimed at reducing its impact on climate and biodiversity, remains for us objectives that are far from obsolete. Agriculture has a key role to play in supporting European farmers' incomes, especially in an international context which has seen this sector severely penalised, without effective compensation instruments. Italy considers that this support should be fair and therefore does not intend to support the current mechanism for the alignment of direct payments between the Member States of the European Union and the so-called external convergence, which, as you know, is based solely on the extension of agricultural land. It is an inefficient mechanism, since it does not take into account an articulated set of parameters, such as the difference in production costs and the difference between agricultural income and average income within the different Member States. The same heading, which also includes the environment, also includes the establishment of the Just transition fund, whose budget, amounting to EUR 7.5 billion, coincides with what the European Commission requested in January in support of the European green deal. Italy will continue to support the restoration of the mid-term review of the budget, which is indispensable for adapting current decisions to future situations, some of which are currently not fully predictable. This request, also made by the European Parliament, is also motivated by the analysis that the Government has made on the financing aspects of the European Union's multiannual budget. In Mr Michel's proposal, we welcome the retention of the VAT resource and tomorrow, at the European Council, we will discuss the details of the proposals for the joint introduction of new resources related to the taxation of non-recyclable plastics and the Emissions trading system. We still consider it unacceptable to maintain the system of corrections - the famous pay-offs - which allows some of the richest Member States - which should be five - to see artificially reduced their contribution to the European budget. Together with most of the Member States of the European Union, the Commission and the European Parliament, the Italian Government will reiterate the need to radically review the system of corrections resulting from the rebate which, as you will recall, was granted to the United Kingdom back in 1984: an obsolete, unfair and regressive mechanism. There is another fundamental point, however, which I still consider unsatisfactory in the context of budgetary architecture. We have always said that the means of achieving an increase in the resources available, so that the implementation of the European Agenda becomes credible, lies in the modernisation of the budget on the revenue side. In other words, we believe that it is necessary to introduce new forms of financing capable of ensuring the right contribution to collective well-being by large companies in the digital sector, by those who exploit differences in taxation between Member States in order to avoid part of taxes, financial speculators and large polluters. This can be done, for example, through the establishment of the new carbon tax border. Finally, Michel's proposal offers a conditional openness to this fundamental request, which aims to avoid further increases in the efforts already required of European citizens and calls on all EU beneficiaries to contribute to the benefits they derive from the single market. After so much insistence, we find in the proposal of the President of the European Council the possibility of intervening, even after 2021, but in any case during the next seven years, to establish new European own resources, when those common rules will be adopted which we are working intensively, which are aimed at protecting the single market from competition from third-country companies with less stringent environmental legislation than ours and at tackling the problem of tax dumping even within the borders of the Union, not to mention the social one. As I begin to conclude, I would like to reiterate that our objective is twofold: on the one hand, to allow the Union and the Member States to face the major global challenges, starting with increased geopolitical instability, economic competition, climate change and migration; on the other hand, we must oppose an idea of Europe which is turned back on national interests and we must ensure that everyone plays their part and that no citizen is left alone in addressing these challenges. Italy is fully aware of living and being part of this common home. We realize that not all of our priorities can be imposed on others and shared by them, but we are not prepared to accept, in the name of a rapid conclusion of the negotiations, an insufficient European budget for the future of our citizens. We would in fact be in the presence of a defeat not merely of an accounting nature, but more exquisitely political, of the very idea of Europe and its ability to offer satisfactory solutions and answers. I am referring to those solutions and responses that can help to eliminate the gaps in economic and social growth within the Continent which can make the Union capable of setting an example and of addressing, with courage and determination, the challenges and challenges of today's globalisation. As you know, a first basic appreciation of the programme announced by President von der Leyen in front of the European Parliament was expressed. We then saw the genuine proposal of the new president to put an ambitious qualitative leap in EU policy in the face of the well-known global challenges. Faced with this budget proposal by the President of the Council of the European Union, our initial dissatisfaction is based precisely on the fact that this ambition remains little trace. I also made this clear to the President of the European Commission during the meeting. We certainly have some progress, but, frankly, we find very little of ambition. I therefore hope that the complex discussions and the consequent determinations that await me and my European counterparts at the extraordinary European Council tomorrow will enable us to advance the negotiations towards a strong Europe within it and towards the other global players, who will therefore find the courage to achieve a better future for its citizens and generations to come. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u6	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u7	Mr President, I have listened very carefully to President Conte's report. I want to intervene on cohesion policies that - it is useless to hide it - see in the new criteria a impoverishment of about 7 billion to the detriment of our country, which then go in favour of France and Germany. From this point of view, I believe that we must be more rigorous in demanding more resources, precisely because, among other things, they would go to the regions of the Centre-North, which unfortunately find themselves lower indices than the previous programming. It would therefore be necessary to intervene immediately with new investments, so as not to be late in the future. There is another issue: cohesion policies have been there for about thirty years, but they have not had the desired effect. I would therefore like to suggest what I, together with other Members of this House, was already bringing to the attention of the European Commission: to release some of these resources in favour of major projects for the Mezzogiorno. I'm talking about high speed connecting large ports and university poles. These projects must follow different deadlines, dictated not by the European Commission, but by their feasibility: Gioia Tauro, Taranto, Salerno and all major universities must be connected by high speed. In these thirty years all the colors that have administered the Regions have not yet managed to make such a great project. Let us then use these important resources, which will come again from the European Structural Funds and cohesion policies, to do something that will finally be useful and strategic for our territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I also know that Confindustria had feared a solution to solve the slowness of spending on European funds. Attention: the narration according to which Italy does not spend European funds is deeply incorrect; it has always spent them, but it has always done it badly, because unfortunately they have been victims of regional clientelism. That is why I return to the major projects with a beacon from the European Commission, the Government and the Presidency. Moving forward, Confindustria had decided to submit the following proposal: in the event of a slowdown in expenditure on European funds, these resources had to go directly to the tax credit. Now I know that Confindustria has already been largely beneficiary of authoritative positions in the Presidency. I hope that he will withdraw from this proposal, because we would have a state that would again renounce infrastructure in favour of the South. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] For businesses, action must be taken on other issues and on other tables, lowering taxes on businesses and facilitating work and investment by companies, but not with the money of infrastructure for the South. The same companies that operate in the South have in fact extreme necessity of infrastructures, because they cannot now to grow and to go beyond their basin, just because they are strongly penalized by the lack of safe and fast infrastructures, as in the rest of the country. [[Applause from Senator Moronese]] There has been talk of simplifications, a very important issue, first of all because up to now the complexity of spending has provided an alibi to the regions to spend badly. However, there has been no mention of another aspect, which I think is of fundamental importance, namely the constraint of macroeconomic conditionality. I do not know, at this point, if the government still wants to proceed with the elimination of this clause, because, at the time when European rules are not respected, they must not and cannot be the weakest territories to pay. For the benefit of those who listen to us outside this House, it should be pointed out that this clause provides that, when certain European rules and constraints are not respected, transfers of European funds can be stopped immediately. This must not be allowed at all: this is a matter of fundamental importance. I have doubts about the link between cohesion policies and structural reforms. I am interested in the fact that cohesion policies are free to carry out their mission, as provided for in the European Treaties. Cohesion policies must remove obstacles and finally reduce the existing gap, without being subject to structural reforms that may come from European principles or desires. We therefore do not want any more jobs and precariousness in order to benefit from cohesion policies. On this point too, we must be very careful about the link with the European Semester. Until now cohesion policy has never been linked to the European Semester, so we really need to be very careful, because, as always, we risk paying for the most disadvantaged regions, so the weakest citizens, but this must not happen. However, I am very pleased that we are moving towards the definition of the negotiations, because it would be important to conclude it as soon as possible, in order to start planning and spending as early as next year. Last time, as a result of this negotiation, we began to spend the resources with two years' delay, precisely because vetoes and counter-vetes have led to a delay in the times that we are unfortunately now serving. However, attention must be paid to the fact that cohesion policies must also be such at national level. It is true that, with regard to the 34 percent rule, which for the third time was rewritten, there was already an ex ante constraint for all administrations, also for the Anas (National Road Administration) and RFI (Italian Railway Network), which you yourself, Mr. President Conte, had signed in May 2019. We have now rewritten it: the important thing is that it should be observed, because it is already getting old without being observed; otherwise, cohesion policies, which until now have only replaced ordinary expenditure, will be useless again. So, just call "spree"... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Thank you, Mr President. In conclusion, I hope that there will finally be a great deal of attention to this kind of talk about the South. It is often said that if the South starts again, the country starts again. That has been said in the last 50 years, but it has never been done. This is therefore the right opportunity to finally reverse the trend, starting with the autonomy, because, as the Movimento 5 Stars asked, we are going in the previous direction, to identify and implement the essential levels of performance. Now we have to talk about the financial invariance and really about a social and territorial cohesion that has not been there so far. If you really want to, it is right to make an open table on European policies and autonomy, just because everything has to go together and be concerted and coordinated, with the only great objective to grow also that part of the country that can help the entire system Italy, that up to now, unfortunately, has remained behind compared to all the rest of Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u8	Senator De Bonis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission's proposal for the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP) provides for an allocation of EUR 365 billion at current prices, which corresponds to an average percentage of around 28% of the EU's total budget, which is estimated for the same period, estimated at EUR 1,135 billion. The total amount at current prices of CAP expenditure, under the previous multiannual financial framework, was EUR 408 billion, representing 37% of the general budget of the European Union to 28 Member States. According to the European Commission, the CAP, in the next seven years, would be reduced by 5% at current prices compared to the previous period, which would be a reduction of around 12% at constant prices. According to the European Parliament, the cut would amount to 15%. Mr President, the reduction in the appropriations for the CAP is worrying. It has already begun in the 2000-2006 programming period, as is the case for another traditional sector such as cohesion policy, and is justified by the European Commission's increase in resources in other areas (research, environment, defence, innovation) and also takes into account the exit of the United Kingdom, with the consequent loss of resources, which will reduce tax revenue by around EUR 12 billion. Of the total amount of EUR 365 billion, 286 billion is allocated to the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund (EFOGA), the first pillar of the CAP, which finances our farms, direct payments to farmers and market measures, without the need to co-finance projects. A further €78 billion is earmarked for the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the so-called second pillar, which finances, under co-financing arrangements, investments made through the regions. Added to this pool of resources are additional €10 billion to support bio-economy, rural development, research and innovation and more. The Commission's proposal provides that the appropriations of the two pillars can be transferred from one pillar to another up to a maximum of 15%. A further 15% can then be transferred from the first to the second pillar for actions with environmental and climate objectives. According to the proposal, Italy would have a total budget of around €36.3 billion compared to over €41 billion in CAP 2014-2020. Well, dear President, since the Italian regions have repeatedly shown little efficiency in spending the funds allocated to rural development programmes, it would be appropriate to consider a different allocation of resources, thus revising the principle of transfer. We already know that many regions have been inefficient - I am thinking of Puglia, which has seen its funding blocked - and, given this poor spending capacity of many administrations (we do not exceed 28%) and the heavy crisis affecting the agricultural world and rural municipalities, I would ask you, Mr President, if at the European Council you intend to take forward what you have just specified so that the Commission's forecasts on transfers from one pillar to another are changed. Above all, Mr President, I would also ask you to give serious consideration to the controls that are being carried out in the management of Community funds through the Agricultural Operations Agency (Agea). It seems that there are serious distortions in competition between the various agricultural assistance centres responsible for intermediate management of the dossiers, and therefore in the use of Community funds, and on this we are waiting for clarification in Parliament by Minister Bellanova. [[Applause from Senator Nugnes.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u10	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u11	Mr President-in-Office of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I asked to speak this morning - and I thank the colleagues of the Ginetti and Garavini Group for this - for two reasons: the first is in method, the second is in substance. The method is to clarify to this House that, even in the light of the difficulties of internal politics, national politics, Italy Viva cannot divide on the issues of continental politics and European commitment. In other words, to think that the internal fibrillations of national policy can lead to some distance on European issues would be a gravely wrong act and contrary to national interest. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, fully represent us in the extraordinary European Council, as you fully represent the entire national community, because in the past too often politics has made internal divisions an element of weakness in the European structure. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] The second reason is that the 2021-2027 budget is not a technical fact, it is a decisive fact: we are playing the future of Europe. I naturally do not have time to deal with the various points and therefore, with a synthesis that will appear superficial (and I regret it), I just highlight some elements. The relationship between China and the United States is becoming increasingly complicated and however the story of the coronavirus - dramatic of course, first of all for human issues and for people's lives - will cause a significant slowdown in the Chinese locomotive. In addition, following the US elections, it can be imagined that, after twelve years of steady growth, there may be a form of slowdown, perhaps a recession, in the United States. We have very delicate economic months ahead of us. Alongside this there are some powers immediately outside Europe that play a complicated game, which I consider to be profoundly wrong. I am referring clearly to Turkey, whose strategic choice to intervene first in Kurdistan and then in Libya, as well as Cyprus, in some interventions of direct Italian interest, is a significant danger for the European Union. Turkey is not an Italian problem, but a European one at this stage. Brexit herself may or may not like it (I am among those who have always contested it), is a political fact of great importance, also because, I say the Europeans, woe to underestimate Boris Johnson - who knew him, has seen him as a pragmatic leader since the time he was mayor - who will be able in the first months to adopt a totally positive narrative on Brexit, also through fiscal shocks and particularly strong initiatives. In the medium term, then, the problem of Brexit will become the problem of the United Kingdom that is divided, because Ireland and Scotland are two boulders on the road to the future of London. Now, however, the question is the objective presence of a vitality that Boris Johnson will try to give to his country, against which, and I come to the point, Europe seems tired and resigned. Europe is in crisis because of what is happening in Germany, where there is a change of leadership, although in Germany it is less frequent than elsewhere. When you change the Chancellor - when you change the Chancellor in this case - it is evident that something changes. It is also Germany's business model, which cannot continue with an unacceptable trade surplus, still above 6%, as you yourself recognised in a recent letter, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as President Monti had done and, I must say, all his predecessors in recent years. In this scenario, ladies and gentlemen, the European budget is not a technical fact, that is to say, what is given to the structural fund - x and y - or what is spent in the individual region: it is the way in which we conceive European membership. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] If, in fact, we just say that we are for Europe and do not explain what kind of investment we are making, Europe is dead, it is over, it has no future and in the coming years we will mark its funeral. That is why - and I am closing - there are three points we want to represent you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. First, be brave on the quantum. Charles Michel is a great president and a great friend of this country too, but his proposal is too weak. We cannot think of attesting to 1.02% of GDP. We must have the courage to say that we are putting more money into it, also because the failure of the United Kingdom (which, like us, is an active taxpayer, because it put more money than it took) will bring a problem in the overall budget of the Union. The risk, therefore, is that you will go and cut on certain expenses. Mr President, be brave on the quantum and with all your government (you have an extraordinary Minister, such as Roberto Gualtieri, who knows these things better than many others) invest in flexibility. Yesterday Bruno Le Maire, French Minister for Economic Affairs, said important and challenging words about flexibility. We barely got the flexibility in January 2015 and now should not be limited, as Le Maire says on behalf of France, to green investments. In fact, we need flexibility on investment (it must be Germany, first of all, changing business models, making investments) even in areas that are not mentioned. Today President Ursula Von der Leyen will present the White Paper on Artificial Intelligence. It's the future of the planet. Europe either needs to be united, or it does not go there; Italy alone cannot compete with China or the United States. Today in this House we have not heard of artificial intelligence or airspace, but these are as important issues as agriculture or funds to the regions of the South because they denote what Europe will be. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Steger]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, bring flexibility on this issue too. Finally, there is a magical word, which President Monti knows better than I do: ex ante conditionality. What does that mean? If you do not respect the European rules, they do not give you the funds, reaching the paradox that those who, like us, put more or less, badly counted, 20 billion euros every year, are seen every time questioned because they are told: Hey, but you have to respect the budget rules. Right, right, that's a correct principle. However, there is another ex ante conditionality that I would like you, Mr President, to take to the table. There are countries that receive money, also from Italy, and that come from Eastern Europe, who have had everything from Europe and too many times forget it (I refer to Hungary, first of all, Poland and the countries of the Visegrád Group). These countries must be made clear that there is ex ante conditionality which does not respect the rules but the values of the European Union. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Alfieri]] If they do not accept migrants they must not take the Italian money; if they do not respect the rules of freedom of information they must not take the Italian money. Ex ante conditionality is the tool with which to fight the sovereignists so that in the face of nationalist sovereignism there is a new European patriotism. Good work, Mr. President. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, PD and Aut (SVP-PATT, UV). Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u12	She's enlisted to speak Senator Giammanco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow will be an important day for the future of Italians, because we know that this negotiation on the European Union's Multiannual Financial Framework in relation to the years 2021-2027 will be crucial to closing an agreement, whether advantageous or not, for our country. Let me stress immediately that I am a member of a party, Forza Italia, which has always argued that Italy's membership of the European Union is not an issue to be called into question. You have also spoken of a common home; we share this principle. We are convinced of the need for the European Union because we believe that in a globalised world, with protagonists such as the United States, the Russian Federation and China, national states alone can do little. Therefore, it is our own interest to have a strong and cohesive Europe that can be decisive in international policies. Of course, Europeanism cannot be blind ideology and cannot be seen as a passive acceptance of any proposal coming from Brussels. President Conte, we are therefore not satisfied - I must tell you this - with the proposal by the President of the European Council, Mr Michel, on the overall size of the Union budget, which provides for a budget of only 1.074 per cent of the gross income of the European Union. We are not satisfied because we believe that the proposal is inadequate to support the EU's re-launching projects. By the way, it is far from the 1.3% required by the European Parliament, and you know that. The position of Forza Italia is in line with that of the Group of the European People's Party, of which we are part. Michel's proposal does not meet our expectations and those of European citizens. We need a more ambitious budget, without which we will not be able to achieve the objectives that the European Union has set itself. Our country's intention in negotiating the multi-annual budget, which should be shared by all the political forces present in this House today, should be to equip the Union with the tools necessary to face the challenges of an increasingly competitive and globalised world. In particular, Mr President, by trying to go through chapters and touching on the various points that you have already examined and which I want to deepen by offering the position of Forza Italia, as far as the CAP is concerned, the current budget is inadequate. On agriculture Forza Italia will not accept compromises downwards. President, please listen to me: let us therefore say no to the cut of 54 billion euros that would severely penalise our country, being a sector that represents one of the pillars of our economy. We cannot accept a reduction of more than 14% in appropriations for 2014-2020 for the coming years. The agricultural budget must be at least that of the previous budget and remain unchanged. The CAP is an instrument of economic policy and must be safeguarded as such. The second chapter concerns external convergence: external convergence and the mechanism underlying it must be countered, given that it would be detrimental to the Italian agricultural sector. You also told us just now that you are trying to do so. So let us continue along this path, but without surrender, Mr President, and with determination and courage. The transfer of funds to the countries of external convergence would result in less money being provided to our farmers. Among other things, some of these countries simply take what they can get from the European Union, without contributing in any way to the challenges facing the Union. I am referring in particular to the migratory emergency, an area in which the countries of Visegrád are notoriously refusing to cooperate, refusing precisely to welcome refugees and thus in violation of the solidarity spirit that should animate everyone and be the basis of a truly united and worthy Europe of this name. This is why the process of building the "common European home," which we hope will continue with the decisive contribution of our country, despite the sad wound of Brexit, cannot be without a fairer balance of rights and duties of each Member State. I would like to recall Oriana Fallaci when she said 'who does not do his duty does not deserve any right': keep that in mind, Mr Conte, during the negotiations on the budget and also on the other dossiers on the table of the European Union. Third chapter: cohesion policy. Work to improve the overall allocations to Italy or, at least, not to affect them. The progressive impoverishment of the southern regions over the last few years, a deterioration certified by the various Istat data, requires incisive investment policies and cohesion is the main tool to try at least to bridge the distance between North and South of the country, which has increased more and more in recent years. We read a few days ago of a Plan for the South presented by its Government, President Conte, which would largely be based on Cohesion Funds 2021-2027. So be careful not to weaken this plan of a Plan for the South that you, together with the Government, presented to us a few days ago, thus relaunching the battle on cohesion with due firmness. Then, Mr President, he confirmed to us a few minutes ago that there would already be a potential agreement between the EU countries on the adoption of a new European contribution on unrecycled plastic packaging, the total revenue of which is estimated at around EUR 6 billion per year in the European Union at 27. Your government has already provided for a plastic tax, which will come into force shortly and will cause so much damage and is already causing our companies and our workers. Some companies will even be forced to relocate for the plastic tax wanted by your government. So, in the future, this new taxation that awaits us (and which you seem to agree with), this new contribution that we will have to make to the Union precisely on unrecycled plastic packaging, could lead to two scenarios. The first would be a double and unacceptable imposition on non-recycled plastics, a sort of tax-related encore; the second, if only the revenue from our plastic tax to flow into the European budget remains, there would be a major problem, namely that of a hole in the state budget that should be remedied and we would also like to understand how. We also asked Mr Amendola at the hearing, but we were not given an answer. As regards the maintenance of the corrections to the 1984 budget, I would like to clarify what I am referring to. I am talking about the fact that some countries (Denmark, the Netherlands, Austria, Sweden and Germany as well) benefit from an incomprehensible measure, and if we were to explain it to our citizens this would take them even further away from the European spirit. In essence, these countries are returning part of their contribution to the European budget for no understandable reason. These countries are special net contributors because they benefit from a discount that Italy is foreclosed. I have much more to say, my time is over, and I therefore ask the Presidency to be able to deposit the remainder of my speech to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. GIAMMANCO (FIBP-UDC). I would just like to conclude by saying that, Mr President, we must not sell off Italy's vote in the European Union; let us give it the right weight, which is that of a founding country and one of the Union's main funders. Let us coordinate the negotiations and work to ensure that our country benefits most from its membership of this institution. Europe must become a real source of opportunity for our country and must no longer be looked at with mistrust by citizens, let alone be accepted reluctantly or endured. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u14	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u15	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the multi-annual budget of the European Union must never meet the challenges facing the Old Continent. Today Europe travels at a reduced speed compared to other parts of the world. Last week Eurostat certified that average industrial production in the eurozone countries decreased by 1.7% during 2019; Italy somehow managed to limit the decline, with a decrease of 1.3%. The same data certify that in December 2019 German industrial production collapsed by 7.2 percent compared to the same month of 2018; again in this case Italy, with a fall of 4.3 percent, managed to limit the damage, probably inevitable due to the well-known link of our manufacturing with the German one. The economic slowdown is therefore a European problem, despite a certain narration it would like to make believe that it concerns only our country. The European budget must be ambitious and allocate adequate resources to boost investment and consumption in Europe. In this direction, the resources of the Member States and those of the European Union can only be important. On the resources of the Member States, all calls for maximum flexibility in the application of the EU parameters must become a reality in a very short time. The new EU Commission President Ursula von der Leyen wrote in his speech that he will use maximum flexibility within the Stability and Growth Pact for a more growth-friendly fiscal policy. These are clear words that show that Germany and Europe as a whole have long known that accounting madness is killing the Old Continent. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On the subject of the European Union's own resources, I believe that the web tax issue is no longer elusive. It is not a question of hindering innovation, digitisation and progress (on these aspects the Movimento, more than any other political subject, has always been favourable), but of a question of social justice. It is legitimate and necessary the competitive use of technology and the Network, but those who already enjoy this enormous competitive advantage, who can count on a concentration of immense resources, that allows them logistics organizations without equal in the world, must have at least equal tax treatment compared to our small entrepreneurs [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , our traders, our craftsmen, who bear all kinds of burdens, and suffer a tax burden at least ten times higher than the ridiculous taxation of these giants. In recent times, more and more economists argue that social and economic inequality is both an effect and a cause of the continuing economic crisis. In the area of tax reform, we are dealing with inequality with fair income support measures: these days the decree-law on the tax wedge is under consideration in the Senate. We are wondering about the desirability of a more progressive system towards higher incomes. All right, but let's not just focus on redistribution between common taxpayers, between poor and less poor taxpayers. Let us not lose sight of the fact that one of the main causes of inequality is precisely the unbearable favorable tax treatment that we grant to colossus who are draining resources from the country [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , from the citizens, they are leading them elsewhere and are helping to destabilise the economic and social fabric of our local communities. On this point too, President Von der Leyen used unequivocal words, ensuring that the issue of taxation of technological giants is a priority. Where profits are generated, taxes must also contribute to our social security system, our education system and our infrastructure. Again on the subject of resources, we believe that a reform that finally harmonises the tax systems of multinational companies is crucial in Europe. Even today, the European Union agrees to have at least seven countries within it that compete unfairly by adopting aggressive fiscal policies. Countries that, with the tax ruling system, offer hundreds of multinationals the opportunity to pay from them almost symbolic taxes. President Von der Leyen also used clear words to ensure that he would fight for a common tax base in order to provide businesses with a single set of rules to calculate their tax base in the European Union. Therefore, Mr President, if we all, including President Von der Leyen, have made it clear what needs to be done, let us do it without hesitation or we will be inert witnesses and accomplices of the European decline. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u16	Senator Monti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u17	Mr President, I fully share the President-in-Office's position: for the reasons he has set out, which I do not repeat, Mr Michel's proposal is inadequate in terms of size, composition and rigidity. According to the Treaty, the multiannual budget can be either five-year or seven-year; it has been decided to confirm the seven-year form - which is problematic in a world that changes so rapidly - but the mid-term review, which so far existed, has even been abolished. As Senator Renzi rightly and lucidly said, this is not simply a budget: this is the vision of Europe. I am surprised that the European Commission apparently gave its support to this proposal by President Michel. In my opinion, the first effect of the possible adoption of this proposal would be a zero drop in the credibility of the European Union and, above all, the credibility of the new European legislature and of the Von der Leyen Commission. In particular, the qualifying priorities of the Von der Leyen Presidency in terms of geopolitical Europe, the fight against climate change and digital Europe would be greatly penalised. Therefore, Europe would have more than ever a schizophrenia between declared ambitions and a lack of real conviction in pursuing them. This schizophrenia would be perceived by European citizens, even more sceptical of the Union if this proposal were passed, and also of opponents - in some cases enemies - who surround Europe, for the first time in recent history, from the east, to the south-east, to the west. The only positive note, which you have also noted, is the opening-up of own resources, which should be sought to expand. I do not believe that only Italy, through you, will show great reservations about the Michel proposal, but I want to say more: even if, in the highly unlikely state, all the other Member States were in favour, Italy in my opinion should veto it. You see, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you see, ladies and gentlemen, the right of veto is usually used for the protection of legitimate specific national interests, but in some cases it can be very useful to block decisions that do not go in the direction of Europe's interest. I remember the case of the June 2012 European Council in the midst of the financial crisis. The Heads of Government had found on the table a rather innocent proposal, which everyone liked, rather "empty," for a plan for growth, made of many words and few concrete acts, and nothing for the curb on speculation that was devouring some of our countries. On that occasion, Italy opposed its veto, disconcerting the other countries, because everyone, including Italy, liked that plan a bit. In fact, it was said here: only if by tomorrow morning there will be strong measures to defeat speculation, Italy will join this package. So it was, because decisions came that Germany also had to submit to, in fear of being singled out as responsible for the collapse of the euro, and that they freed the European Central Bank from the German jerseys that would continue to block its action. That is why, Mr President, I hope that, if circumstances are to occur (this would be a very similar case), Italy will use its power of veto, motivating it, not so much for national interests, but for the general interest of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Falco.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u18	I would like to address, and I think I interpret the thought of all the senators, my applause to the Senator Segre, who yesterday was awarded an important recognition by the University of Rome "La Sapienza": the bestowal of the doctorate honoris causa in the History of Europe. [[Applause.]] Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am a member of the Budget Committee. Therefore, I apologise for my limitation, in examining the subject, to the prospect of an exclusively national and, therefore, purely Italian interest. In life, then, I am an artisan, so I apologize for my concrete vision of the problems and consequences of politics on real life. I therefore find it difficult today to talk about the European budget in the long term, a budget which has been dragging on for two years now. You'll excuse me, then, some inaccuracies. Today, President Conte told us how he will defend Italy's interests in Europe. We take note - and not today: we have already participated in several hearings, in particular with the Minister for European Affairs Amendola - of the dissatisfaction of the current Government with a budget that provides for a cut on traditional measures, which are also the ones most used by Italy. I am referring to the European Commission's desire to cut cohesion funds and those earmarked for common agricultural policies. (at 10.40 a.m.) (Ferrero followed). There is not much to be welcomed if there is a half of the net balance in the budget. We know that we are net contributors, so between what we give Europe and what we take from Europe there is a negative sign: it was about EUR 4 billion and it will be about EUR 2 billion in the new budget. But should we be happy about this? For nothing and for two orders of reason: the first is that this advantage is granted to us by virtue of a worsening of our economic parameters: since Italy goes worse, something more is granted to it; the second much more practical - is that when a company is in negative and accumulates losses, whether it loses little, or loses so much, however it loses. So this is a slight consolation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There is an uproar on abstract discourses, which then have concrete and negative repercussions. Italian taxation is already high and is a brake on the Italian economy; bureaucracy is another element that attacks the Italian economy. Does Europe help us to reduce taxation or reduce bureaucracy? It is a paradox: not only does Europe always further complicate procedures at all levels, but today it also begins to talk about European tax power (translated: taxes also from Europe?). President, let us at least avoid this further danger and not sell off another slice of sovereignty. We try to maintain at least the tax authority. And yes, because the President of the European Commission Ursula Von der Leyen has announced for the next ten years a beautiful investment plan in the green economy of €1,000 billion. But where will he get them? In the long-term budget 2021-2027, there are still no plans, except for 7.5 billion in favour of the right transition fund. On this chapter, the Italian financial commitment will be around EUR 900 million, compared with a return of just EUR 364 million. Who will benefit most from this fund? Poland and Germany, due to the presence of numerous coal-fired power stations and chemical industries, are therefore the two countries that have the most problems in the green transition. President. - I call the Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Rather, we try to fight for the departure from the calculation of the deficit of national investments aimed at the green economy. And on this Von der Leyen seems not to hear us at all; so, she fights for this end. [[Brusio. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] At the suggestion of my colleagues, Mr Conte, I ask you: are you interested in fighting for the departure from the calculation of the national investment deficit, those investments aimed at the green economy? [[References to the President of the Council of Ministers by the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. Again? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I get it. The President and the Ministers do not have an obligation to listen, they have an obligation to be present. If he's distracted, it's his problem, not ours. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You're from the L-SP-PSd'Az group. No. You have to listen! Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). I have already said this in the debate on our budget, but I repeat: you have succeeded, in the name of a more environmentally sustainable and green economy, in imposing new and senseless taxes in budgetary maneuver, in particular on plastics, with disarming lightness, thus sending entire sectors into crisis, without having an effective and consistent response in terms of revenue. Therefore, my fear is that you do not have a real vision of the concrete effects that further European taxation can have on the Italian economy. On the other hand, I have not heard of that chapter in the European budget which is expected to rise. I am referring to the costs for the European public administration. Do countries fall and the costs for Europe's operation increase? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It takes courage, Mr President, to go to Europe head-on and bring the demands of Italy to the attention of the European Council on 20 February. Remember the words of your first settlement: you have proclaimed yourself a lawyer for the Italians and the people. It must not please anyone, it must only be of interest to Italy and the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u20	Senator Caliguri is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u21	Mr President, my fellow Senators, Mr Conte, thank you for explaining the state of the art to us in view of the extraordinary European Council. The problem, Mr President, is that we are very concerned, especially with certain issues to which you have also referred. I would like to focus in particular on the agricultural sector and, above all, on the problem of Nutri-score, that is, the labelling at the traffic lights of food, which unfortunately penalises Italian products, putting many healthy products on the index. Italy is the first EU country for the number of agri-food products recognised as protected designation of origin, PDO, and protected geographical indication, PGI, many of which would become at risk with traffic light labelling. The Nutri-score system classifies, as we all know, the elements with two scales, one color, from green to red, and one alphabetic. But this is not real food information. Appropriate consumer education and training initiatives are needed. The red cataloging gives the idea of a situation of danger to health. In fact, it is not the product itself harmful, but it is its abuse. The scientific world has long recognized the Mediterranean diet as the best possible. Veronesi's words were: the so-called Mediterranean diet, based on vegetables, pasta and fruit, traditional for centuries in Italy, has proved effective in preventing cardiovascular diseases, obesity, diabetes and cancers. In fact, it is the one that limits behavioural risk factors, responsible for 37 percent of deaths. In our country, life expectancy has reached eighty-three years. Unfortunately, in recent years there has been a decrease in the consumption of numerous foods typical of our Mediterranean diet. The traffic light labelling, President Conte, is likely to further undermine Italian agri-food exports because it leads consumers to believe that they are harmful products that are not harmful. We all have in mind the representations of extra virgin olive oil and other products. Well, the oil is classified with the orange color, close to the red. When we show these color scales, we are aware that we induce the consumer not to buy that product. The orange color used for olive oil causes the buyer to desist from the purchase. It is not absolutely true that the buyer will line up the different types of oil - seeds, sunflowers and anything else - to see the best color and then proceed to purchase. The indication of one color instead of another expresses what is good to buy and what is not, and becomes dangerous. President, I read a part of an article that should be in favour of the Nutri-score. On the "Alimentary fact" it is stated: "it is necessary to bear in mind that the purpose of a nutritional logo, such as the Nutri-score, is not to classify healthy and unhealthy elements, good against evil. This would be quite questionable for a nutritional logo because this property is linked to the amount of food consumed and the frequency of consumption, but also to the overall nutritional balance of the individual. These are complex notions that cannot be summed up by a nutritional logo attributed to a specific product of a certain brand. I would add that the traffic light thus conceived does exactly that, giving the very idea of summing up and indicating what is healthy and what is not. Continuing we read that "The purpose of Nutri-score is to provide consumers with information, in relative value" - but it is absolutely not relative because, from what world and world, red is an indication to stop and green to go forward - which allows at a glance to give indications about the purchase. The Nutri-score wants to do just that: give exact indications about what is good to buy and what is not, removing 85 percent of our made in Italy. In the light of the various considerations put forward by several voices in the scientific, economic, productive and political world, this labelling system would be far from the stated aims, aimed at a supposed and general pursuit of consumer protection and health objectives, while more likely it appears close to a blatant, clumsy and intolerable attempt at political pressure on the European institutions. Another point, Mr President, on which we are very concerned and which in fact displeases everyone, is the draft budget to which you referred. A little more courage was hoped for, not least because budgetary instruments are essential to implement political projects. The resources are insufficient. Among the most penalized sectors, if the plan is approved as it is, there is agriculture. All in all, between the 10% cut in direct aid and the 25% drop in rural development funding, this would be 54 billion less for the primary sector. For Italy the cut would be about 2.7 billion euros. The 25% drop, in particular, on rural development is synonymous with the involution of the agricultural world and the abandonment of rural areas. We can't afford that, ma'am. I quote the thoughts of Coldiretti and Confagricoltura in this regard: the cut of the funds contrasts with the ambitious objective of a greener CAP, strategic for the fight against climate change and for the reduction of emissions. With less resources, it favours the depopulation of agricultural areas, thus canceling those principal garrisons for the maintenance of the habitat and the protection of the territories. There is a risk of curbing the process of revitalising the sector, especially by young people - to whom you referred - who are rediscovering the agricultural profession at a difficult time for employment in Europe. In the same vein, Confagricoltura's comments calling for the resources to remain at least unchanged. The objectives proposed by the Commission cannot be achieved with the appropriations provided for in the proposal. We can further increase the environmental sustainability of production processes in line with the right expectations of the community, but we need adequate financial resources for increased competitiveness for investment and innovation. Of course, in addition to the financial aspects, the new CAP reform is under discussion. It is proposed to continue to reduce the gap between the amounts of direct aid granted in the different Member States; the external convergence to which you referred. As we know, Italy expresses the highest added value per hectare in Europe. Looking exclusively at the different amounts of direct aid, not considering the conspicuous diversity of production costs and above all, President, not highlighting how Italian agriculture is based on quality, rather than on the extension of culture, seems to us at least reductive and not respectful of our needs. For several years, unfortunately, the percentage of agricultural expenditure in the EU budget has been falling steadily; just think that in the 1980s we were around 66% of the EU budget, while in the 2014-2020 period we have reached 37.8% of the budget. That is why we are concerned, Mr President. Let us remember that no other sector is able at the same time to remove emissions from the atmosphere in a natural way, to prevent hydrogeological disruption, to continue to carry out a social policy, guaranteeing employment, and at the same time to form the basis for the development of an economy based on biodiversity, guaranteeing food security. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u22	She's enlisted to speak Senator Floridia. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I share and appreciate what you have said in this House, and of course, listening to my previous colleagues, I am aware that in this new geopolitics it is clear that Europe must speak with one voice, because the challenges we face are important and only together can we face them. I certainly agree with those who have spoken about the method, for example on a veto, so that Italy can be heard. I'm sure the themes I've heard about are all interesting. Mr President, we are, however, distracted, because we have perhaps forgotten what the priority of the European Council meeting is. I want to give a simple example: I am a teacher and sometimes I work using examples. Let us imagine that each Member of Parliament, each of us in this House, is one of the most important issues we are going to discuss: transport, the South, digital (to which I am very attached) or agriculture. Mr President, if any one of us, who is a subject in the example, should have a fever, he would remain at home and not be here. If this fever began to rise more and more, it would lose interest in the theme for which it was fighting and would also lose the perception of the difference between one political color and the other. In fact, he would cease to have the urgency to play his role and would instead have another urgency, linked to his own existence and to his own survival. For this reason, for me, upstream of any other topic that we are facing today, there are climate change, because the planet has a fever. As long as it is a manageable fever, then we may not be able to deal with it, but by taking up the example for which each Member represents an issue, no matter how much it may affect the whole of Europe and the rest of the world, in the new geopolitical situation, if the fever rises to such an extent that we cannot work, live and hope, we no longer have other priorities. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, what am I getting at? Mr President, I want to highlight the priority of climate change. The Earth has a high temperature and has provoked all this have been two hundred years of industrial revolution, which has certainly given us so much prosperity and brought us here. Certainly we owe these two hundred years of history, but we found that it was not free, because of the residues of carbon combustion and oil. Freeing carbon and oil, which have been under the ground for millions of years, added 36 billion tons of CO2 into the atmosphere and we were able to return more waste to the country than the goods we took. In addition, every year we consume once and a half the resources produced by the Earth, and the excess part is what will fail future generations. If we still hold this pace, talking about development, transport and more, we would need three planets, from here to 2050, but we don't have them, we only have one, and that is why climate change is the priority. The temperature of the sick Earth is high and has definitely increased by a degree in the last century. It is a disease first caused by a sort of unawareness in the use of the Earth and then by the greed of the human species. We have already achieved the first great change: it is that of awareness, and we have acquired it. The second was the agreements - such as the one in Paris - which ratified, written in black and white these urgencys: good. Now, however, we need to demand more; we need significant resources, the vision of a new European budget that can be defined up to the challenges that Europe itself has set itself, which must have priorities such as the fight against climate change. The stakes are high, like fever, and the European multiannual financial framework will have to provide for precise and substantial financial commitments for the green new deal, because the "sick" can no longer wait. Climate neutrality by 2025 is a priority. I hope that we can be effective in this request and that we are able to pursue this direction vigorously and convincingly. Of course, this is not a challenge that can be faced on its own; Europe must be able to involve even the least sensitive continents. We need resources adapted to this priority, from which all the others fall to rain. We need concrete action on climate change that can lead to ambitious goals and reach a climate-neutral Europe in the middle of the century. We are faced with the biggest challenge of all, Mr President, which is not only to slow down climate change, but also to promote the green transition, which is an opportunity for development and growth. We can still reverse the old fossil-based paradigm. We can and must review the paradigms of consumption and production. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u24	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u25	Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council who, in addition to the general framework that we have appreciated, wanted to mention, among others, the issue of agriculture. I believe that agriculture has been one of the cornerstones of the European Union from the outset, but at the moment it requires very special attention. We therefore appreciate the reference made, but we believe that a considerable and concrete commitment is needed to give substance and results to the attention that has been announced. Agriculture is, in my opinion, a central sector, and not just because it is an important economic slice for our country. In fact, especially in the vicissitudes of crisis that cyclically our country has been called to face, agriculture has always represented an element of estate, opportunity, revival and strengthening, especially in the most affected territories, more marginal - let's say so - or with difficult prospects of development. I think this is crucial. In addition to all this at the moment, we really believe that the prospect of the European Union and our country must play a non-negligible segment of its opportunities on that green new deal that has activated so many resources at Community level and - as far as we are concerned - in our national budget. It is the challenge of the future, both for the issues mentioned by my previous colleague and for the opportunities for growth and development. If that is the case, that green deal, that attention to the environment and the territory has a lot to do with the holding of a quality agriculture that knows how to innovate, that knows how to take on all the challenges of the future that we have on the carpet. I am just saying, as an example, that if we want to achieve the 2030 targets for renewable energy, probably an important slice of the 27% we have as our target will also play on the ability to innovate in agriculture. I believe that all this is there to mean how central the issue of agriculture is. Having said that, I note that in the proposals currently on the table we have a prospect of announced cuts of almost EUR 60 billion at Community level and almost EUR 3 billion for our country. I am convinced that reasoning on this means reasoning in general on the subject of the budget. In this regard, I would just like to say that, in my opinion, it is interesting to discuss whether the Finnish proposal for a budget of 1.06% of the European Union's overall GDP made sense, instead of 1.1 percent; whether it makes sense to maintain the current 1.1 percent or whether, on the other hand, it makes no sense to think about the 1.3% proposed by the European Parliament. I think we are very concerned about this issue, partly because we are net contributors to the budget. I believe, however, that a reflection should be opened on the Union's own revenue, which has to do, among other things, with the future of the European Union and which cannot be postponed at this time. I say this in the knowledge that, as net contributors, reasoning about increases in the European budget can help us solve so many special circumstances in all sectors, although it certainly puts us under considerable financial pressure. I therefore urge you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to start serious reflection, both at national and European level, on the issue of the European Union's own revenue, because I believe that there is, on the one hand, the answer to countries like ours, which already give a great deal to that budget, but, on the other hand, the prospect of the future of the European Union. If the European Union does not have its own resources to increase and does not increase its potential for manoeuvre, it will continue to risk playing a game of survival and not relaunching towards the future. Turning to the substance of some of the agricultural issues, I believe that the cuts envisaged, both in terms of direct aid (in terms of the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund) and investment and innovation (the European Regional Development Fund), are, from our point of view, unbearable and unsustainable. In the same way, I believe that the issue of external convergence, already mentioned by my colleague who spoke before me, risks being devastating to us. We are constantly affected by the competition from new countries entering the European Union, which have much lower prices and costs of production, which receive much higher revenues from the European Union because they are lagging behind in competition. If we were to move towards external convergence, which means giving more to those who have less and then taking away from us in order to give those countries again, the risk for our competitiveness would be enormous. For this reason and for many other reasons that make the bet of agriculture central, in thanking the promised commitment, I ask that this commitment be given substance, because agriculture is very linked to the destinies of this negotiation. [[Applause from the PD Group and the Natural Senator]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u26	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u27	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, dealing with the European Union's multiannual financial framework is not something purely accounting and mathematics, which is out of the ordinary: budgeting means questioning the future of Europe and laying the foundations for the strategic choices of the coming decades. Deciding whether to invest in either direction, research, training, modernisation or social matters can be the key to ensuring the relaunch and strengthening of the European Union. On the other hand, cutting resources and investment, locking up in nationalism or catastrophism, which is becoming increasingly fashionable today, can mark the beginning of the end, among other things, at a very delicate stage in which Britain's exit is likely to seriously disrupt the whole of the Union, both from a political and financial point of view, as well as in trade relations, intercultural exchanges and budgetary policies. Britain's exit is going to take away the beauty of EUR 12 billion from the coffers of the European Union, an important figure that will have to be compensated first and foremost by the other Member States, but that must not preclude new necessary investments. If we reason in this way in today's debate, we need a much more courageous EU budget, which includes a plan of public resources and long-term investment in knowledge, social public goods, ecological transition, energy and artificial intelligence, as well as the introduction of a European instrument for combating unemployment, as well as an instrument for controlling the external borders of the European Union. A substantial increase in the budget is also an objective to be pursued, precisely because certain challenges of the future are better addressed together in a stronger Europe. There must be an important condition in all this: there must be no increase in the tax burden on citizens. On the other hand, new European instruments are needed to finance long-term investments. Those who have not done so so far must contribute more: I am thinking of the large multinationals and those companies which have a negative environmental impact. Therefore, it is good to think about taxes on financial transactions, good taxes on carbon missions and good taxes on the profits of digital monopolies, while at the same time fighting evasion, tax avoidance and the phenomenon of tax havens. Mr President, there is one aspect that I should like to stress in particular. In a world in which crisis scenarios exponentially increase and the US's protective shield function is increasingly lacking, there is increasingly a need for European defence that can guarantee security not only to the Union as such and to individual Member States, but also to all those neighbouring areas where there is a need to restore political stability and peace conditions. Therefore, in particular, the Finnish Presidency's proposal to halve the European Defence Fund should be opposed. In short, we need a bolder and more ambitious budget. As you said, Mr President, we really need a Europe that gives courage and thinks about safeguarding research, knowledge, sustainable agriculture, competitiveness and the fight against organised crime, so that these are not just slogans, because they are about the future of Europe and ours. We need adequate resources and an Italy that fights to get them. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u29	Mr President, Brothers of Italy considers what has been said in this House, for the first time in truth, by the President of the Council and by other authoritative members of the so-called majority in government to be important. We believe that what the President-in-Office of the Council said is important because, for the first time, he considered the proposal of the President of the European Council to be totally inadequate, on which many in this majority had relied. However, this proposal was shared by the Commission and we wonder what happened to the Italian Commissioner, who, among other things, has an economic delegation. The President-in-Office of the Council also considered that it did not meet the expectations of what was proposed, in which there is no trace - or little - of the ambitions set out by the new President Ursula Von der Leyen at the time of his inauguration. I would remind everyone in this House that this majority has come about on the basis of those promises and alibi that Europe was changing thanks to the majority that elected Ursula Von der Leyen with her project and her ambitious proposals, which would give Europe a soul again. I remind everyone that in the previous discussions here in the Senate we ourselves said, unheard, that we were on a inclined plane and that Italy risked much, everything, not only for the multi-annual framework that is being defined today and in which all the Italian political forces finally give a profoundly negative judgment, as it was dangerous for national interests, but also because, at the same time, the other pillars are being developed: that of the reform of the European Stability Mechanism, which sees none of the Italian intentions and intentions realized, in the worst context that everyone was already aware of a few months ago; and that equally and perhaps most dangerous in the time of the Banking Union, which would put at risk the combined picture of these reforms and the survival and financial and economic stability of our country. In this context, the negotiations are under way. Mr President, I am surprised that alongside you - and I have to say this on behalf of the Group - the conscious and responsible Minister Amendola, who also anticipated in the Commission his strong concerns about how dangerously the negotiations were taking place, there is a complete lack of the stone party, Mr Gualtieri, who is also in the election campaign this morning and not here in this House. Even this morning, Mr Gualtieri is on radio and television doing his election campaign, instead of representing national interests and listening to Parliament, all the more so since he himself told us only a few months ago, in the relevant Commissions, that everything was fine, when we find that it is far from good. The financial framework is dangerous, not only because Italian interests in agriculture are not represented, but also because cohesion funds are compromised, but there is not enough pressure on the climate plan and there is not enough own resources on the part of the European Union. We wonder why we should not, as should be done, point clearly to our own resources, especially by immediately implementing digital taxation on multinationals. We wonder why, in the field of climate, that project certainly ambitious and acceptable, according to some press reports, could be directed exclusively or mainly to support the electric turnout in Europe, since it has recently been constituted a colossus for the French-German electric batteries that looks much like the aircraft giant of Airbus, so Europe finances the Franco-German giant and then to pay we Italians or the other Europeans as happened with the Airbus. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This is a picture that worries us and you, for the first time, spoke about it and said something important: we will not accept compromises at all costs. It also tells us that it is necessary to set aside the veto of Italy on this negotiating framework, which could also help us, by showing firmness, to develop the other negotiating frameworks on the ESM and the Banking Union better, just as and perhaps more detrimental to the strategic interests of our country. We are attentive to this change, while remaining firmly convinced that we are in opposition, as we have shown in this legislature, when other center-right allies have succumbed to the flattery of the 5 Stars, and as we have shown in the previous legislature, when other allies have succumbed to the flattery of the Democratic Party governments. So, with great consistency, let us say that we are careful to read the majority resolution, because if today it were to receive what we have heard from you in this House and what we have heard from other authoritative members of the majority, namely to prepare Italy to react even with the threat of the veto, in this framework we could abstain from voting, giving a political signal on this resolution. We call for the Government to examine our motion for a resolution with equal responsibilities, because Italy, today more than ever, in the framework that has been partially described by former Prime Minister Renzi, is threatened on several fronts, by Turkey and not only, and surrounded in its strategic interests. Moreover, the mission launched the other day is against national interests: in this Chamber, Minister Di Maio had spoken of a change and a continuation of Operation Sophia under Italian leadership with the ground intervention, averting the idea of launching another mission, which would not have been a Italian guide and would have intervened in maritime waters not of our priority interest. If we tell the truth in the House and in the country we are there, because we are a patriotic force; we are there today and we will always be there when it comes to defending the interests of Italy in Europe, knowing that today they do not coincide at all with those set out by the Commission and by the Franco-German axis and that they must be restored first and foremost consciously in a united atmosphere in this Parliament and in the country. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u30	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u31	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we have very much appreciated your communications to this House and, above all, the firm commitment you have made not to accept compromises downwards at all costs, even reaching the position that someone has suggested and that I share in part, as President Monti said, to veto the European budget if it is not changed. I think it's the right attitude for Italy. They are not just sterile polemics, as we have seen in the past, for propaganda purposes, but they are a position in the interests of Europe. Never before on the multiannual financial framework is there a clear choice: it is a question of pushing Europe forward, so somehow changing it by giving it a serious position and that is exactly what our national interests are. At this moment, just as it will happen as a result of our firm and absolute request to change the multiannual financial framework, we are doing our own and Europe's interests, because President Michel's proposal is absolutely inadequate and inadequate to meet the challenges that the Union itself stated it wanted to engage. It is not possible to accept such a separation between the statements of last December, in which President Ursula Von der Leyen presented his programme, and the financial framework that is presented. That programme, for example, I am thinking of the green new deal is certainly ambitious, even if it is not enough for the situation to be addressed (I will intervene again). In fact, in order to achieve the target of climate neutrality by 2050, half emissions by 2030 will unfortunately not be enough (the data tell us so); we need to be much more ambitious and achieve at least a 60% reduction in order to achieve neutrality. In addition, the European Union's roadmap for that programme was intended to establish standards for manufactured goods in order to stimulate the circular economy, and thus also to target other sectors. On the other hand, we are faced with a budget which, from the green new deal's point of view, is totally inadequate. As far as agriculture is concerned, this is a fundamental part, not only because the CAP has always been the only common policy in the European Union, but because there resources can be absolutely fundamental in order to increasingly direct agriculture towards sustainability, not only towards the adaptation plan but towards mitigation (because it itself becomes an instrument for doing so), as well as to ensure a structural policy for our country. In this context too, what is the purpose of this proposal? Drastic cuts are proposed: EUR 60 billion in general, for the European Union, and EUR 3 billion for our country. If we really want not only to enunciate, for fashion, an ecological programme and the ecological transition, we must also focus on resources. On this we can redesign the identity of the European Union: assuming the mission of combating the fight against climate change as one of the missions - perhaps the fundamental one - of the Union. This is also true of COP 26 in Glasgow, other European countries and also of major competitors at European level. It is clear, however, that this path requires precise and binding action by the Union, both on the tax side and on public and private investment. One cannot think of overcoming such a challenge without, for example, limiting and heavily taxing harmful activities. We cannot really measure ourselves with such a transformation without a real plan for the conversion of productive activities. One thing, therefore, is the declarations and another thing is really to put all the necessary instruments in place. From this point of view, the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 is in no way appropriate to the challenge, because the public and private investment plan, which should be structured along two main axes (the innovation and green investment programme), is not supported in any way by the necessary economic commitment: resources are not at all adequate. Moreover, we ask once again, knowing that this is the battle that our country must wage, flexibility, but it cannot be just a general request for flexibility; we must direct it. When we, stubbornly, ask for investment to be separated from the Stability Pact and the deficit-GDP ratio, we say that these are key pillars. If we do not do this and do not focus very much on green investment, we cannot bear the costs of the transition, because the transition also has costs from the work point of view. That is why we are always talking about the right transition, which does not mean moderate: it means taking on the problems that arise. For us it is central, it is not a habit, to ask for the acceleration on the investments and the displacement, because it is an absolutely fundamental instrument to manage and govern this right transition. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u32	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u33	Mr President, I must say to the President-in-Office that I particularly appreciate your introduction, your report and your proposal. I tell you why it is not so usual, at least on our and my part, to say that you have made a very complex proposal in the face of a very complex situation. You used a political language of truth, of political realism, in my opinion of a healthy reformist culture and from this point of view I appreciated the merit, the method, but also the complexity you raised. Why do I start from complexity? Because the reading in his proposal stems precisely from the fact that we know what is happening in the world and what changes have already been made. I am thinking of the effects, already, of the digital world, of the effects, already, of the research on artificial intelligence, I think that you have already taken into account the objective slowdown of the economy in the face of the new facts that have been described. Above all, however, I would like to stress that you are aware, like the whole Government - for the work previously carried out by this Government in Europe, but also as a capacity to hold together the various Ministers and Ministries to prepare our position in Europe - that today's political challenge, not tomorrow's, which we have towards Europe is about the political agenda intertwined. In fact, there is no separation between the policies that are decided in Italy and those that are decided in Europe: there is a close connection between the political agenda to be brought home to Europe in this negotiation (and in this, the inadequacy of President Michel's choice and proposal is evident) and how much we, by creating this Government, put at the center of the political action of this Government. Now, separating the desire to focus, as was said, on a sustainable economy also means implementing those policies, at national level, which accompany, interlogate and act from this point of view. Focusing on research and innovation in support of our companies, focusing on sustainability, which is a cross-cutting theme for all sectors, means responding exactly to the central theme, which is set for Europe and Italy, of which work we want to support, with which investments, with what quality. Here is the great theme, which is also present in our Italian proposal at European level, which covers the whole package, including training. It is not a banality to raise the issue of Erasmus, because it means having, conceptually, a link between innovation, culture, training, girls and boys and, therefore, effective sustainable growth. I say this because, all too often, it is lost - let me say this, Mr Conte - a link that there is, almost a mainstreaming of the various proposals that concern the different sectors. In fact, it is a mainstreaming accompanied by choices that are infrastructure. When we talk about the digital agenda, it is not a matter of innovation in a sector in its own right, but it is cross-cutting across all sectors and when it comes to green investment, I very much agree that flexibility is also not an abstract flexibility, but it must be linked to the choice of the political agenda that we place, otherwise it is not credible, we are not credible and our proposal in Europe is not credible. On this we must be capable, even in the situation you described. We have a set of arguments, just having to face the global challenge. We are working to ensure that Europe fully resumes, with the new European legislature, its place in global competition, that is, a high quality of investment, of quality, of social cohesion, with all the elements that have been described here, including with regard to China, the United States and taking into account an element of difficulty, which was the exit of Britain. In this challenge there are and can be, in our opinion and in my opinion, qualitative relations with some European countries, which may not put us in the extreme ratio, in the condition, that Senator President Monti represented us, although I understand that, faced with the decisive political challenge, for Italy and for Europe, but above all for the Italy-Europe interweaving, using the element of veto is a possibility that is right to take into consideration. I would find it useful in the continuation of our comparison at European level, intertwining existing interests with different European countries to determine an appropriate agenda, adequate investments and a multiannual budget adapted to this choice and to this challenge. It is not the interest of the great European countries to imagine a Europe that becomes incapable of meeting these challenges, which are also present in its relationship, and with global competitiveness. I say this because these are elements that are at heart and can be seen in the various statements. I would add an element that I know is present and that I would like to keep in the resolution that Parliament is committed to, including yours and its action. Mr President, let us not forget that Von der Leyen, among the many things he has put in line, has included one which we all hold in particular: it is another infrastructure of the political choice to make Europe competitive, that is to say the overcoming of the gender gap. It is not just a question of women, it is a matter of quality which marks the necessary response to the interests, aspirations and needs of a Europe made up of women, girls and men, not only as a point of departure. I should like to conclude, Mr President, by repeating something that we have always said and that for me it is a coherent political fact and consequences. You see, Mr President, someone in this House has said that there is a distinction between the fibrillations of this phase and the policies that must see us united outside of Italy, in Europe. No: the stability of a Government and the close relationship between the policies of a Government implemented in Italy are a fundamental element of credibility in the relationship with Europe and in the ongoing negotiations. If the negotiation is complex, the seriousness of a government is exactly that: authority, credibility and government keeping. I know that you have a language of those who hold together and are calming down - and I must say that I particularly appreciate it, while I do not love it when the battle attacks people, rather than measuring up with political proposals - but the stability of a government is one of the prerequisites for our negotiation on important issues, which we all discuss, to be successful. In fact, authority is a decisive part of a country's politics. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed-LEU Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u35	Mr President, first of all we remind the House that the meeting on 20 February will be very important and the agriculture sector will look very carefully at what will be decided on that day. That is precisely why, Mr President, we would like to understand what the strategy of this Government in Europe is. In fact, while we have President Conte making public statements and also in this House he says that it is vital not to reduce funding (but one thing is to say things in the newspapers or in the Chamber and another is to go to Europe), on the other hand, all the forecasts and indicators tell us about cuts in agriculture, which therefore go in the opposite direction to what he is saying at the moment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The cut planned for 2020 is €2.7 billion, with a reduction of 14% in average appropriations; direct aid to the first pillar is around -10%; rural development funding is about -25%. Gentlemen, this is very serious. So, President Conte, the question we ask you right now is: what will Italy do? Are we going to have a low head, as is usage and custom, or are we going to do something to bring home a result? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Specifically, if we go to see the common agricultural policy in the coming years and come to the subject, 40% of the CAP contribution will be linked to the environment. Well, since we are talking more and more about the environment and because we are talking about agriculture related to the environment, but we all know - all those involved in agriculture - that respect for the environment entails additional costs for farmers, we therefore need adequate financial resources for innovation and investment. Greater farm sustainability is achieved only by keeping the agricultural budget unchanged. The question we are asking is: can you explain this to Europe? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Are you able to shift the attention of an apparently already decided budget towards agriculture, which has the mission of penalising agriculture? I would point out that agriculture is being penalised. Let's explain something. This CAP will penalise Italy, President, by reducing the gap between the amounts of direct aid granted in the different Member States. External convergence must be fought at 100%, without whether or not. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is a clear and legalized unfair competition in favour of the Eastern States, which have less production costs, vis-à-vis countries such as Italy which has more costs and more quality. Do we want to help this blessed Made in Italy, not only in words but also in deeds, or do we just have to fill the pages of the newspapers? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A major issue for Europe is the national strategic plans. [[References to the President of the Council by the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's okay, ladies and gentlemen, our board president knows everything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u36	I would ask you not to suggest listening that is not mandatory.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u37	CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). That is not a problem, Mr President. I am speaking to the House. The national strategic plans, as Europe wants them to, affect the competence of the regions on European funds, which is the competence guaranteed by our Constitution and which Europe cannot ignore. Agriculture Commissioner Hogan had given us his willingness. We ask you, Mr President, to go in that direction so that at least the Constitution of the Italian Republic is respected by Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] President, we are very concerned about your inability to protect Made in Italy internationally. First of all, there are the duties of the United States. It is true that no other products have been added in the second phase, but 25% duties on cheeses, cold cuts, aperitifs and liqueurs have not been removed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The duties are still there, gentlemen, and it is useless for the majority political figures to exult because no other duties have been imposed: on the products mentioned the entrepreneurs are telling us that they are losing market shares, they are losing turnover. I am laughed at by the presidents of the consortia and trade associations who say that at least they have not increased them: of course, a 25% duty is enough and goes on! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As regards the duties on rice and the relations with Cambodia and Burma, we have introduced the duties on rice indicates, but you have not protected Japanese rice, which is currently suffering unfair competition from Cambodia and Burma. As a result, the rice producers of our country are asking this government to intervene as quickly as possible and a press release is not enough, we must take the suitcase and the plane and go to Europe to beat the fists, not stand in Via Venti Settembre 20 to warm up the chair and do political activity for Italia Viva, President. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Another problem is Nutri-score and traffic light labelling. Again, it is a disaster on the whole line. If the morning is seen from the morning, what our country is doing will not help to stop the Nutri-score and the labelling at traffic lights and we and our producers will suffer what everyone fears. We are also asking you to take action in this area and to do so constructively. [[Comments by Minister Amendola]] Yeah, it's not like you intervened... [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Always later! CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). They make gestures like saying they did who knows what: they didn't do anything! The cut in funds runs counter to the design of a greener CAP: less resources means less quality. Less resources means favouring the depopulation of rural areas: the farmer is the first garrison for the habitat and the protection of the landscape. Less resources means less aid for young people and technological innovation. Mr President, we are pessimistic, and we are telling you quite honestly. We are pessimistic for two reasons: the first is your disinterest in the agricultural world and your quarrelsomeness which makes us unbelievable in Europe: even if you go to Europe with your hat in your hand, today we are not credible. The second is the biggest concern, namely the disinterest of your European friends in agriculture, I say yours and I stress your European friends. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] President, do you know how many times your friend Ursula has mentioned agriculture in her address to the European Parliament? Zero times. Mrs Ursula has named one of the most important sectors of this continent zero times. And zero, if we go on like this, it will be the vote that the League will give to you, your government and your European friends. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u38	I have the pleasure of greeting the Istituto comprensivo - Anzio 2" of Anzio, in the province of Rome, who has kept us company throughout the discussion. I thank the teachers and the boys. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u39	Senator Masini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u40	Mr President, Government, colleagues, I am here: I have an uncomfortable place, of course, because you never find me.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u41	All places are good, you're in the far right, settle down.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u42	Masini (FIBP-UDC). Today's debate on the forthcoming Extraordinary European Council and the Programme Financial Framework 2021-2027 requires some preliminary considerations because first of all, special attention must be paid to European issues, but looking at them with a careful eye to our country that suffers from a particularly delicate economic moment. Ours is and remains one of the founding countries of the European Union, but it cannot and must not make the mistake of looking too far without dealing with the problems of slowing down its internal economy. In this context, Europe makes sense if it is an added value to the policy and economy of the individual Member States that make up it, while all too often, some Member States have benefited from favourable positions at the expense of others, such as Italy, who paid for all. This is unfortunately due to a lack of ability of our governments to raise their voices and keep the point when they have had the opportunity. In fact, most of the time our representatives have bowed their heads in the face of pressure from the European institutions. We remember - and we know well - that Italy is a net taxpayer country, pours more than what it receives back and, unfortunately, in a historical moment that sees us last - alas - in the ranking for economic growth and estimates a 2020 in recession, this is no longer the time to spend public money lost. Yet, President Conte, on the subject of major European economic reforms, Italy is losing the whole game. A débâcle for our country, the result of the choices of an Executive unable to play in the European tables that matter: not one word has been spent by its Government on the meetings of the last days of the Eurogroup and the Ecofin on the reforms of economic governance that will decide the future of Italy and Europe in the coming decades, because you are too busy, the Executive is too busy, as usual, in a everyone against everyone on the armchairs and its shaky future. However, we must make enough of your speech in this House today, and then I come to the substance of the debate, remembering that the situation on the European budget is completely on the high seas and the extraordinary European Council risks ending with nothing. It is yesterday's news that the European Parliament rejected the multiannual budget proposal drawn up by Charles Michel: too many distances over the total amount of resources between the rigorists, who would like a smaller budget and those countries, including Italy, who would like a more full budget. A proposal, Michel's, without ambition, because it does not provide the Union with the necessary means to implement its priorities and much below the expectations of the Commission's proposal. In Michel's proposal, the budget allocated to rural development is reduced to just over EUR 72.5 billion over the next seven years and other cuts are assumed for commitment appropriations, i.e. the CAP and the CFP, as well as for environmental and climate action. These figures alone would be enough to make barricades in Europe, because once again countries are hit, including Italy, where natural resources, agriculture and rural development are still a source of income and public budget. The question of the 1,000 billion-dollar green new deal, to which President von der Leyen has so much in mind, is already quite gloomy in this context. A strategic plan for the conversion of the economic and productive system, partly co-financed also by national funds, which will therefore weigh heavily on the economy of our country, not only because we will have to adapt our legislation to the European one, more stringent in terms of environment, but also because the green deal is a dream that our productive fabric at this time will have to support with enormous economic effort and resources. The objective is ambitious, the time is short and I wonder if in a time of global crisis it is appropriate to pursue financing models with such high leverage that it appears difficult to achieve. 11:47 a.m. (Masini followed). The industrial crisis and the economic recession are contrasted by changing European rules, with rules that allow businesses to grow: this is the priority. Therefore, this Multiannual Financial Framework is a fundamental test for whether we are really able to move forward in the process of integration or, vice versa, whether we are going to choose the path of a deaf and blind Europe, incapable of allocating to itself a budget adapted to the great challenges that lie ahead, also due to the post Brexit, the coronary virus alarm and the many open international situations, which have also been mentioned by my colleague Renzi, who spoke before me. Europe starts again, if we are able to rebuild a desire for Europe among its citizens: not only monetary union and respect for parameters, but identity, love for its roots and ability to look at and build a common future. We need a flexible European Union that can adapt to changes in reality, united in territorial diversity, which must not be an obstacle, but an opportunity for development for the whole continent. A Europe focused on research, innovation and the digital agenda... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. A Europe that looks at young people, small and medium-sized enterprises and border management. In order to bring home results, it is necessary that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, do not support proposals for a downward compromise on the size of the overall budget of the next Multiannual Framework, with particular reference to those budgeted for our country's strategic interests and sectors. Because a budget of the European Union like the one proposed... [[Brusio.]] Mr President, there is too much confusion. Excuse me for being distracted, but there's a really embarrassing buzz. We therefore need reforms and investment, and so if we ask Europe for adequate support for the implementation not only of its reforms, but also of our own, we ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, not to lower your head in the face of the seemingly stronger states and, for once, to put Italy's interests ahead of those of Europe, which does not mean to be anti-European, but to be true European citizens. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Licheri. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u44	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, before entering the heart of the problem, allow me to make a brief comment in reply to the remarks made by Senator Centinario, who, of course, during his time as Minister for Agriculture and Food and Forestry, little must have attended his ministry and just as little must have attended the European tables. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Otherwise, he would have known that most of the attacks that he mentioned earlier, come from your allies: the countries of Visegrád. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Otherwise you would have known that the overall level of support, through the CAP, is currently rewarding countries that have recently joined the European Union. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Did you know that? Then why didn't you say so? [[Applause from the M5S Group. Senator Centinario's comments.]] Because he didn't say that Italy's main enemies are those countries.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u45	Talk to the presidency, Senator Licheri.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u46	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, the Italian food industry has gained industry leadership at European level and has all the positive indicators. We picked it up on France, Germany and Spain. We are before them, but the opposition is right when it says that, in fact, the process of external convergence is the funeral of Italian agriculture. This expression, which is so incomprehensible, means that there is a part of Europe, the one that is at the heart of the League, which would like to level out funding for our farmers, with a single amount, on the basis of the extension of the camps. It is therefore a process, which ends up going to the detriment of Italian farmers, despite the fact that they are putting it all in, because in that area of Europe there is the steppe, there are the square kilometers of territory, there is the Lathfundist ruling class. In the South, however, there are the real farmers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , trying to collect the land from the mountains and hills. That's what the League has to say, because it knows what the problem we have right now is. There is a vision of Europe, which is selfish and tries only to satisfy one's own particular and national interests, and there is, instead, a more shared vision, which is inclusive. The CAP is not business for us. Do you know that the last elections in Poland were won by a party that made its electoral slogan of external convergence? He won the election because he promised to move forward on external convergence against the Italians. This is the Europe that we must all fight together. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pittella]] Having said that, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is in fact the fact that the 14% reduction in the financial resources for agriculture is unacceptable. That is inconceivable for us. So, before you are dragged by the coldness of the numbers, the figures, the percentages, Mr President, try to make it clear to the European Council that in a few days' time the Council will be at a crossroads. It is a fork: Europe will say everything it can do and everything it will not be able to do for its citizens. It is a terrible crossroads for Europe, which makes the wrists tremble, because at the moment we have hopes and disappointments: we are facing a possible victory or a possible defeat, a leap towards the future or a return to the past. You are right, Mr President, in talking about high stakes. How can you blame her? It is a very high stake, but before deciding whether or not to tighten the belt after Brexit, the Movimento 5 Stars Group of the Senate wants to tell you again to repeat those words you have spoken today in the Chamber and which - I have heard - also referred to President Michel and President von der Lyen: courage and ambition. This is the time when Europe must show courage and ambition. It's okay the green new deal, that's fine, but be careful: it's true that the Just transition fund was designed to support the countries that depend on coal, but the area of Taranto - I heard Senator Lezzi - has all the requirements to be able to benefit from that fund, to create new sustainable jobs. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pittella]] Europe must find courage and ambition, but it must also open up its own concepts. The same applies to the CAP, which is not only a financing which, according to Article 38 et seq. of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, must guarantee a decent level to the farmer. No, it's not that. For us it is much more: it means welfare, support, passion. For me in Sardinia, the CAP also means deterrent action against the phenomenon of fires, for example. The CAP is very much for Italy and must be defended. Mr President, when we go to Brussels with the members of the 14th Commission - whom I am honored to chair - and sit at the tables, they often tell us that we must not complain because, at the end of the day, Italy is one of the few countries that will earn a net profit, in relation to the previous budget, compared to other countries. It is a narration that we must break, President, first of all because this gain, in the course of the negotiations, has faded, but above all because it is not a gain but a differential and it is not a gift, but exactly the proof of how far we are relegated in our southern districts; it is the demonstration of the inequality scissors that has been created between the North and the South. It is true, then, that we are not crying over ourselves here and that for the first time a government has introduced a ten-year plan of programming for the South (123 billion euros), but we need the support of Europe, which must finally do its part, demonstrating that it knows how to get out of national logics and, above all, it must be an expression of peoples and values and among these values there can be those of equality and solidarity. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pittella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u47	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I inform the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Pittella, Lorefice, Ginetti, De Petris and Unterberger, No 2, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 3, Senator Calderoli and other Senators, No 4, Senator Romeo and other Senators, and No 5, Senator Bernini and other Senators, whose texts are distributed. (Some Senators from the FdI Group next to the Presidency are asking to speak.) Colleagues, I think it is better to intervene from the place, because here there is always a siege to the Presidency that is frankly, sometimes, embarrassing: I find myself behind colleagues while I am leading this House and I cannot understand what happens, let us see a bit.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u50	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, nothing special is happening. In a totally obsequious way to the Rules of Procedure, before the conclusion of the discussion, the Brothers of Italy Group, in addition to the resolution "mother" - let us call it this - has also tabled a number of other specific resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u51	Perhaps it would have been better to report it five minutes earlier, so that the Presidency could, on the one hand, be able to announce it, on the other hand, to the representative of the Government to take a look at it to give an opinion. I understand that it is within the limits of the end of the debate, but I want to say that this puts us in difficulty. I shall briefly suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 12.03 p.m. and resumed at 12.13 p.m.) The session is resumed. I communicate to the Assembly that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Pittella, Lorefice, Ginetti, De Petris and Unterberger, No 2 (text 2), Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 3, Senator Calderoli and other Senators, No 4, Senator Romeo and other Senators, No 5, Senator Bernini and other Senators, No 6, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 7, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 8, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, No 9, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, and No 10, Senator Ciriani and other Senators, whose texts are in distribution. I call on the representative of the Government to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u52	Mr President, I am in favour of the motions for resolutions Nos. 1, 3, 9 and 10 and against motions for resolutions Nos 1, 3, 9 and 10. 2 (text 2), 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u53	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u56	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have the support of Gruppo Italia Viva-P.S.I. in the negotiations to be supported at this extraordinary European Council, which is certainly crucial, not only because it will close the negotiations for the new Seven Year Financial Framework, but because, when defining the priorities to be allocated to these resources, it will indicate the future of Europe and qualify the process of future integration itself, in a difficult internal and international context, characterised by a contraction in trade, between new duties, political tensions and new health emergencies. The context is also characterized by the following Brexit, the first split between European peoples, in a historical process that we had imagined linear and irreversible. We shared the European Commission's proposal of May 2018 to present the new budget, with the aim of modernising it and making it more flexible and transparent. This budget proposal, however, had immediately appeared insufficient and unbearable to overcome the contrast between the need to finance new policies in order to meet the new current challenges (security, migration, research, innovation and infrastructure) and to continue to support traditional policies, starting with cohesion and the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). The multiannual budget sees a substantial reduction in the resources available and, in our view, it will have to provide flexibility mechanisms, but also instruments to protect resources from financial risks. On the revenue front, it will be necessary to strengthen the basket of new own resources, including digital tax, green taxes, VAT revenues, as well as negotiating proposals to focus on the need to ensure adequate resources for cohesion policy, including with new European instruments implementing the social rights pillar. It will also be necessary to provide cover for aid to all regions, Mr President, with the simultaneous revision of the indicators of relative prosperity, taken note of the worsening of territorial disparities, even in the more developed ones. Particular attention should also be paid to migration and integrated management of external borders, to an effective right of European asylum and a common migration policy. Moreover, with the strengthening of Europe's role in a constantly changing geopolitical and international context, we need to think about the issue of security and defence, with neighbourhood policies and international cooperation aimed in particular at the Mediterranean area and the countries of Central Africa. More resources will also have to be allocated to funds for growth, for the investments of the green new deal towards a complete circular economy, which may not fall within the constraints of the Stability Pact, so that countries like Italy are not excluded from the opportunities linked to the transition to a green economy. We also hope that the CAP will be reformed, by overcoming the process of external convergence, to ensure environmental quality and food safety. We also call for the cessation of the corrections linked to the rebate, but also for a system of sanctions for countries that violate the common European norms, in the matter of relocations of migrants, but also of commercial surplus, as well as those - mainly of the Visegrád group - that violate human rights threatening the democratic principles of a common cultural heritage. In conclusion, today is the time of courage, as many of my colleagues have said, and the multi-annual budget can truly be the test field for a stronger, more innovative and competitive Europe, fairer and more secure, that can also re-establish that bond of trust and trust with its citizens that is still and further at risk of weakening between new fears and old closures. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u59	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, Mr Conte, the Brothers of Italy never gave you discounts, if only because we are the only political group in this Parliament that has never ruled with you. However, we are patriots and can count on the loyalty of Brothers of Italy to Italy, without tactics or political calculations, in the hard battle of the European negotiation aimed at defending Italian national interests. It's a bit like when playing the Italian football team: even if we consider the players and the coach to be scarce, in the end, when he gets on the field, we support for the national team. Let us do this again on this occasion: we support the government, even if it is the opposition. Without controversy, however, we come to this crucial appointment with a dramatically weak government. This first of all for reasons of a structural nature of our country system, which has not worked for a long time and the right wants to change, through the direct election of the Head of State and a Government that, by virtue of the general arrangement, manages to govern five years, also in order to succeed then to sit at the tables on these occasions with a solidity that unfortunately does not have. Italy is unfortunately weak also for contingent reasons: we do not hide that the Government was born of maneuvers of palace, without the popular consent and with a great quarrel within it. This situation is therefore the worst in order to face the enormous challenge that it will face these days and overall, in the European Union, is the most dramatic that there can be for Italy. With the release of the United Kingdom the Franco-German axis has consolidated in any way, which does not make a mystery of playing team games at the expense of the rest of the European States, first of all Italy. We have seen it with the Treaty of Aachen, which in fact certifies that French and Germans agree before dealing with the rest of the European Union, and in the recent set-up of the Commission and the European institutions, where, unfortunately, Italy is relegated to a secondary role; we see it every day with hostile actions by France and Germany against Italy; with the proposal of the ESM, which is under discussion and which Italy is trying to improve; at international level, with what is happening in Libya; in many contexts, even those that seem secondary, such as the attempt to introduce the French labelling system of the Nutri-score to penalise Made in Italy. This is the general context in which it will operate: a difficult context. On the substance, both you and Mr Amendola, in his hearing in Parliament, have pointed out a number of serious problems in the current draft multiannual financial framework, and we share them, but there are others. We have spoken before of an overall vision, in which we do not really have the Europe we would like to defend. Is it possible that, out of seven main headings, there is no support for birth and families? The demographic desertification of Europe, with the entire European people about to die, should be the first voice of the European Agenda. Instead, it was not in the previous programming and it is not in this, because the model of Europe that they want to tell us does not take account of the peoples of Europe or the defence of European identity. This is a problem and we have included it in our resolutions: we hope that it will be accepted by this House and that Italy will put the problem of defending the European birth rate in Europe. The second point is that this context would be a good opportunity to make a package logic (the term dear to Prime Minister Conte) and to put the question of the revision of the Stability Pact, asking for the separation of investment expenditure from the deficit-GDP calculation, so that we finally have an expansionary European policy and no longer the blind austerity that we have seen so far. Still, on the overall budget, Brothers of Italy does not join those who claim that it should rise. In our view, the Member States' budget must be reduced as much as possible and the EU's own resources must be increased, which must not affect the current VAT system, as someone would like to do; it must not be focused on plastic tax, which penalises Italy, but should be focused on the European Union's own characteristics (the web tax and the Tobin tax, with financial transactions, taxes on the single market, so as to finally penalise those who make tax dumping within the European Union and civilisation duties). Among the specific subjects of the Union, in fact, there is that of duties and those of civilizations aim to prevent the European market from being invaded by goods produced in countries that do not maintain the minimum wage levels and of defending the environment, nature and human dignity within the European markets. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] In terms of vision, expenditure under the heading of immigration must be directed at defending borders against mass illegal immigration and not at promoting it. In this regard too, in fact, we hear very bizarre speeches, with a demonization of the peoples of Eastern Europe, described as "the Tremends of Visegrád." I remind those who continue to talk about the countries of Visegrád that these are peoples and states, not political vision, so much so that they are part of states of all political groups, from socialists to conservatives. If anyone has problems with the countries of Eastern Europe, ask them to separate the European Union and kick out those of Eastern Europe; otherwise, we will have to continue to defend our European brothers and sisters. [[Comments of Senator Nugnes.]] However, there are specific aspects concerning Italy. Minister Amendola explained one: the overall balance is what interests us. We want a negative balance for Italy that does not exceed 2 billion per year, for a total of 14 billion in the seven years: it can suffice as contribution of Italy. We have also said that the CAP proposal is inadmissible, whereas on the cohesion funds we have a proposal that penalises the regions of Southern Italy: this is unacceptable. Senator Monti has also spoken of veto hypotheses: I think that, beyond the general question of veto, the Italian Government certainly must say: no less euro to the regions of Southern Italy, otherwise the veto will be put. In conclusion, President Conte, the observers in Europe are ready to bet on the weakness of the Italian Government at the negotiating tables, too attached to the armchairs to defend the national interest. French and Germans, in Brussels, are convinced that they will have an easy game: they deny them and defend the Italian interest at those tables. Defend Italy and we will be her first supporters, at her side, as patriots as we are; sell her out and we will be her enemies. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u60	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto comprensivo "Raffaele Iozzino" of Casola di Napoli, in the province of Naples, who are attending our works. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u63	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we remain absolutely convinced, as I have already said in general debate, that at this particular time defending the interests of our country means working and weighing our vote to make Europe change. In fact, national interest coincides with the possibility of pushing Europe towards real change. I believe that the resolution which we have tabled and which we will vote with great conviction is very clear and indicates a number of elements that mark the path of change. Many speeches have focused on the total inadequacy of President Michel's proposal in relation to Europe's challenges, as we have already said. The years 2021 to 2027, which mark the horizon of the Multiannual Framework, will be absolutely crucial in order to allow Europe, at a very difficult time of the international framework, after Brexit, to recover strength also at a planetary level. I repeat this again: all this can happen if the European Union understands that it is time to change its economic and financial policy deeply and to take a new path, abandoning the unnecessarily strict one, sometimes interpreted only dogmatically, and realizing that the challenge before us today is very different. That is why we have put a lot of pressure on the issue of the break-up of green investment and digital innovation, which mark the path of the future. I would add that we absolutely cannot allow ourselves to compromise and we therefore support President Conte in his statements and in the battle that will take place within the European Council, convinced that the challenge facing the European Union and our country today is to be consistent with the plans set out (I recalled that of the President of the Commission) and the indications that emerge - alas - from the financial framework. This dichotomy must absolutely be overcome. Other things have to be done: on the revenue side, we repeat that, in our opinion, there is a need for a lot of tax relief as regards, for example, the introduction of border carbon tax; then import taxes of goods and services are necessary to combat environmental and social dumping; an incisive web tax; the continuation of negotiations for the introduction of the Common consolidated corporate tax base (CCCTB), for the harmonisation of tax systems; and above all, further intervention with regard to agriculture, on which many have stopped and not returned. We also want to stress that this Multiannual Financial Framework must also affirm the values of Europe, with a system of conditionality linked to respect for democratic values and solidarity principles, which are the roots of Europe and which many of the countries that are now part of the European Union clearly do not respect adequately. We will therefore vote strongly in favour of the majority resolution, believing that it contains the necessary elements to ensure that our presence in the negotiations in the European Council can indeed set a path not only for our country, but for the future of Europe. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u66	PITTELLA (PD). Mr President, Mr Fedeli and Mr Taricco have already described the position of the Democratic Party in an effective and timely manner. I can therefore make only a few comments, starting from the final part of your speech, Mr Conte - which was clear, clear and authoritative - and the political one, when you said - not with the same words, but with this meaning - that there were the European elections, the new Commission and the President of Parliament, and the launch of a great green economy programme. What is all this hanging on without the multiannual Community budget? That is why tomorrow's appointment is politically relevant. President Conte has spoken with today is a great guarantee: we are convinced that he will take this opportunity to prevent not only the cuts envisaged in the Croatian Presidency's proposal, which, as many colleagues have said, concern agriculture, cohesion, but also the lack of funds for Erasmus, digital, defence and migration projects. I am and we are sure that he will also be able to deal with other issues, some of which he has already shed light on in his speech. I'll give you five or six in a telegraphic way. First, Brexit and Coronavirus: how do these two great disasters affect the polyennial balance? Because such they are. Secondly, are financial support for the Green Plan and the resources envisaged in the budget the same? Do we repeat the history of Fanfani cows or are they different? On this we must understand ourselves: we cannot use the same resources to do more things, otherwise we mock the citizens of Europe. Thirdly, as you have said, we must face the shame of the refunds, the famous payoffs involving five countries, even some who are very well and do not understand why they are entitled to a refund: we must abolish them all, otherwise the multi-annual budget becomes a commodity between governments and states and it is a shame. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Fifth, a real basketball of own resources is needed: President Monti has made a broad proposal, which can be added to other addenda; a new system for financing the budget is finally created. Finally, it is certainly aware that tomorrow's meeting, and the next one, opens another phase, which is also called for by the formal opening of the debate by Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri: it is the phase of a new budget and a new fiscal and economic governance of the euro area, as well as the possible and desirable revision of the Stability Pact and the fiscal compact. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We are faced, ladies and gentlemen, not only with an important appointment such as the multiannual budget, but with enormous challenges, on which the European Union's ability to be and to return to be friends with its citizens really depends. We need a strong, united and compact Italian presence. From this point of view, you can count on the full and loyal support of the Democratic Party Group. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u69	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Mr Conte, I begin my speech with the greetings of President Bagnai, who is currently in Brussels, sitting at the tables of the European Parliamentary Week, to seriously discuss finance and the future for Italy and for Europe. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , unlike those who, like you, participate in the summits only to try - in my opinion, with little results - to take a picture with the heads of government in the front row, and then to be in the last left corner, because that's where they put Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The truth is that, to date, none of us in this House knows what it has been and what the Italian negotiation proposal will be. Nor does the President of the Commission, of whom I am a member, who spoke before: perhaps it would have been better to explain it to him before he intervened. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He's playing the whole negotiation on his own, and he'll be the only one responsible for the end of our country's agricultural and development policies. Less than thirty-six hours after the likely closure of the Multiannual Financial Framework, he came here to the Senate to tell us about hypothetical percentages, as if they were lotto numbers, to tell us that everything will be fine. If, in addition to the numbers, you want to give us the wheel, maybe the luckiest of us can try to play them and see if you win something. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, gambling risks being an illness and you are playing with our future: for us this is unacceptable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The good old days of parliamentary democracy are far away: do you remember his words? It was here to fill the mouth of this sentence: we must parliamentarians the European processes. Well, but not too much, I'm gonna tell you, given the results. The League and the Italians are no longer willing to accept a government that goes on with confidence. Take the decrees to the Commission only because they are forced and used by trusts to silence minorities, as is the case in the regimes. [[Comments of Senator Parrini]] In the Contista- bis regime, the work of the Commission is eliminated and the debate in this House is prevented. We have even come to the point of suspending the speeches at the end of the sitting for almost three months: everything to silence the opposition. We have asked several times - I am the tangible example of this - what the negotiating document is and at what point it is: punctually, you have given us various and misleading answers, in order to hide the cards. The latest update, President Conte, arrived last night at 5:00 p.m. We worked for two months on a dossier from last October. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is known, however, that, sooner or later, the knots come to the comb and the day 20 is here, around the corner. We have an unacceptable proposal on the table, based broadly on the first Finnish structure, which, if confirmed, if it is not already, would have two important facts. The first is that in Europe, as my father says, we count less than two spades with sticks; the second, and much more serious, is that you have definitively killed agriculture the Italian agri-food system. You did not confine yourselves to that: do we want to talk about the thousands of opportunities wasted in the no less important game of the distribution of cohesion funds? Do we want to talk about the 1,000 billion that the green new deal should bring to the European economy, but which there is no trace of? There are 7.5 billion of the 1,000 promised, with the only certainty that 877 will go to Germany and two to Poland. Is it smart to penalise agriculture, which is an Italian excellence, to favour Central Europe? I don't think so. He's not smart, but that's what we're doing. Let's go back a step. Thanks to your "euro-supine" position, in favour of this Franco-German plan, over the years we have seen Italy lose all its excellences. We have lost the great fashion brands, the Italian steel industry, chemistry and manufacturing. Only agriculture was lacking in this sad appeal: courage, yet a very small effort and you are there. After all, you are "only" killing the Italy of our grandparents: what do you want it to be? Simply put, you are definitively liquidating our Made in Italy [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which we have tried to defend in every way. While you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, are trying to manage your colourful and picturesque Government in Europe with very little results, they are slowly pulling out of our hands even the last sector of excellence left in our home. If you have not understood it, the signals from Europe that Italian agriculture must be reduced are all there, just read the papers. I understand that there are few figures in the European dossiers, but I remember that the words are always those written in black. [[Comments from the PD Group.]] In addition to the cut of EUR 5 billion in the CAP and the data on the effects of Brexit, which we still do not know today, but which will be between EUR 12 and 15 billion, there is a clear passage between the lines concerning the extensive application of external convergence. Perhaps he does not say anything to others, but at least to farmers he says a lot, that is, given to the hand, simply that there are nations that receive more money from Europe not for what they produce, but for how extensive their farms are. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, among other things, your own Minister, Mr Bellanova - and I wonder if he still has, or has, changed his mind. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] - before "going up to the Aventine," he said, referring to this theme: We remain strongly opposed to external convergence and, if it were to be decided on a continuation, Italy must be compensated for by a specific allocation on direct payments. In my opinion, that hill is a bit of an opposition and it is known that falling is a moment, Mr President. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It seems, however, that does not apply only to your Minister. In fact, I would also like to mention his words of 7 February, so a few days ago, in the margins of a meeting: On the common agricultural policy it is obvious that we will never be satisfied with the current distribution criteria offered to us. It is clear from his words that he will not compromise. It is clear, then, that, when the time comes, Europe will get up by tearing off its jacket, showing a polychrome "super count" shirt, and will finally begin its anti-European uprising, not by voting on the European budget. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I understand that from your words. Do you want to understand once and for all that the weakening of the Italian agricultural system will benefit France and all the countries of Eastern Europe, which have endless stretches of land and which, taken out of Italy, will divide as vultures our remains? You see, Count attorney, about 70 percent of our farms are small and medium-sized and have developed its core business in product excellence, not on agricultural extension. This is the first rule that gave rise to Italian excellence. We are our Made in Italy and the product that envy us the whole world. If you betray this, failing your mandate, only the French and the Germans will thank you. I remind you, however, that the Italians pay the salary. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] These companies, if you have not noticed, risk closing forever: for them that are mostly family run, you have to beat with your heart and head, as well as with the clutch, but lately, in my opinion, it has become a bit "mochette ", you know how it is. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Laughter]] It is not enough to say: we go to Europe and then we will see. I wonder how we do not understand the apocalyptic scenario that will hit Italian agriculture shortly, if the cut of the new CAP remains confirmed. For six months now, almost with a mantra, at every session of the Commission and at every hearing - and on the benches of the Government the Minister is also sitting, who knows very well - I ask you what you are doing for Italian agriculture. Punctually, I haven't had any answers for six months, except for a few random percentages, perhaps in a crazy way, from the Minister in charge who sits in front of me. I have tried, but from 20 February onwards I will no longer be asking you to account for what you are doing, but it will be the Italian farmers who will do so. The truth is that you are firmly giving up the future of our companies and our children to support a budget that does not speak Italian. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] For this reason, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group will vote on its minority resolutions. I conclude by quoting Collodi: once upon a time there was a king or no: once there was a piece of wood. Tell the truth at least once in your life, Mr. President; please tell it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u72	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Minister, today's debate takes place at a particular moment in the history of the European Union: there is the establishment of the new Commission (the year of the European elections had taken place earlier in 1995: another era, other modes, other economy); the exit of Britain from the European Union and the frictions with the countries of the East; the growth that has stopped at European level, starting from the German locomotive; the political difficulties within many countries and some emergencies will have an effect that we are not yet able to assess with respect to the future (the talk of the coronavirus and the repercussions it can have on China and Europe); the issue of immigration, which is difficult to govern; the American economic policy, before and after the presidential elections. It should not be surprising, therefore, that there are many nodes that European governments are called to dissolve, from the change of economies to internationalization with respect to past programming and integrations, with a globalization of productions that determines the need to change European policies and to make assessments for us hopefully as less provincial as possible. It is not surprising that it is already difficult to determine the numerical entity. Those who represent the European people, namely the European Parliament, indicated in 1.3% the gross domestic product of the 27 countries; for the previous President, Finnish, it was 1.06; for the current President, 1.07; for the Commission, 1.11. We are talking about a difference of over 300 billion: they really look like random numbers. It concerns the fact that the numbers of the technical part are far lower than those indicated by those representing the European people, Parliament. The issues of North and East-West are certainly intertwined in political relations and in the speed of the various economies. We are in the presence of a proposal which the proposers themselves have called "fugale" and which we can say is unambitious. What is our goal? Certainly to ensure and ensure the financing of the traditional policies of the objective of the Structural Funds: harmonisation and unification at European level, i.e. agricultural policy and cohesion policy, including by intervening on the rules. The modification of some rules that move two Regions such as Sardinia and Molise from the phase out prior to the new cohesion policy must be evaluated and can also be positive. Again, we must give a solution to the climate emergency: the green new deal is a key point in today's Commission President's proposal; we are talking about an amount of 1000 billion, but the funding and co-financing paths have not yet been defined. I note, however, that there are no gaps in intervention for green investments. What do you propose, do you want and indicate forza Italia to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, who will represent all of us in this very difficult negotiation? First of all, the change we are experiencing needs flexibility in management, which must then be declined not in absolute freedom, but in frequent verification of the model by European partners: we cannot go on for seven years with a rigid model, as it was in the past, when the change was much slower. At the moment, alas, there is no mention in any document of a birth policy, a problem that affects Europe and particularly Italy. We will have a Europe that maintains its level of inhabitants with immigrants, but we would also like European inhabitants, we would also like Europeans in Europe. There is no clarity about the immigration management report. Is it appropriate, Mr President, to reopen negotiations with the African Union - and this is also the occasion for discussion of the multiannual financial framework - to consider an agreement also for regional landing centres in Northern Italy? Let us ask the question, which certainly burns more to Italy than to other countries, so, if we do not put it, who do we want to put it? It is an economic, social and humanitarian issue. We also call for transparency. I would like to remind you that the NGO system - and I am talking in general, not only about those dealing with immigration, does not get me wrong - over the three years 2014-2017 had over 11 billion, but there is no list or at least I did not find it. We must therefore be attentive to the issues, to the scale - thus clarifying the total amount - and to the regulations. We can also agree with an assessment for the modification of certain rules. The mechanism of gross domestic product per capita can also be taken in a different way and rightly unemployment, levels of education, climate change and reception of migrants, if they refer to it, are factors that can affect the definition of the algorithm for determining quotas. The point, however, is that as Italy we cannot accept the reduction from 63 billion to 46 billion of the Cohesion Fund and the modification with a reduction of the CAP system. We must guarantee our cultural, intensive and qualitative model, with respect to the great extensions of the North and the East. It is therefore absolutely necessary for the Italian Government to oppose - given that there is unanimity, it must do so - any converging changes to the system of latifundism in some Eastern countries. It is necessary to correct the system of refunds, which was in Britain's time, and today it no longer deserves to be. The European Investment Bank, to which green investment must refer, such as research and the digital economy, must be capitalised. Mr President, I am beginning to conclude with a reasoning on the resources of the European Union. We do not agree with the current proposal on plastic resources, corporate income and quota changes. We can talk about environmental quotas, but it is essential to charge taxes in Europe to those who do not pay them, as they pay them, not only the Italians, but the Europeans. The web tax must therefore be defined at European level, without expropriating the national states of their power of taxation, as well as in the original Treaty, but must be defined and clarified at European level. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Italians or Europeans can't afford to get to the condition that... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] Mr President, let me conclude with one final remark. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are moving towards unanimous approval, but before we speak on the Multiannual Financial Framework, close the agreement on the ESM and the Banking Union, which requires a majority. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] In fact, it's all part of a single design. Let us start discussing the European Union's governance model again in a serene and serious manner, not as opponents, but as founders as we have been. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u74	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u75	LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Minister and members of the Government, I am beginning my speech a little off the subject: I wanted to talk to you about Giro d'Italia, but I will be wondering what it has to do with today's subject. I am referring not to the Tour of Italy by bicycle, to pedals, but to a colleague of ours, representing an opposition force, who, instead of being here in the Chamber working on important issues such as today's, goes around campaigning, the tour of Italy in Basilicata and Puglia. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause and comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Work is being done in Parliament and important issues are being defended here, so no more rhetoric and we work together. Instead of traveling around Italy, Matthew the Lega's maximo leader comes to the House to represent his political side. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Vivacious protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's go back to us...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u76	Please, colleagues. I'll pick it up when I have to.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u77	Please, Senator Lorefice. LOREFICE (M5S). Mr President, let us return to the subject. On behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am here to thank you, President Conte, for confirming with your communications and statements that Italy will support tomorrow's extraordinary European Council a firm and courageous position - I stress this - and above all coherent. As you have already shown, you respect the content of Parliament's resolutions: and so thank you once again for your consistency, I call on everyone - Government and Parliament - to work together because the objective is common and we do not need divisions. I also appreciated the words of the other Matteo today (I am referring to Matteo Renzi), who rightly acknowledged that on such important issues, such as European ones, there is no division and she fully represents Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] What can I say? I also thank my colleagues from Italia Viva - P.S.I., of the Democratic Party, of the Group For the autonomous and free and equal, who have worked hard these days to collate a motion for a resolution that contains in a precise way the requests of the Upper House, the Senate. Let us not forget to sit in this branch of Parliament representing the Italian people. Returning to us, they all support in words the need for a Europe capable of facing the great challenges of the future. We talked about green conversion, innovation, research, digital revolution, security and immigration, but then, when we get to the facts and get to the wallet, there are few who act accordingly. If the Multiannual Financial Framework for the next seven years is not approved by June (the timing is therefore tight enough), the ambitious programmes of the European Agenda will skip due to lack of resources. We are aware of the little time available, but we are sure that you, President Conte, will work with the utmost care and will be able to use the chisel and other precision instruments and not the clava from cavemen who claim to use other parts. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We are neither cavemen, nor use force improperly. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have already seen how the other Member States of the European Union treated us as soon as we tried to raise our voices improperly. We must talk about sharing and collaboration, without ever forgetting that Italy is a founding country and a net contributor and, consequently, can and must assert its own weight. Let us never forget this, and neither have you, Mr President-in-Office, who have never forgotten it and will carry forward in a clear, concrete and conscious way the position of Italy. I repeat clearly that the proposal of the President of the Council of the European Union, Charles Michel, although going in the right direction with respect to the Finnish negotiating framework, which was really bad, is not enough in our opinion. We need more courage and more resources, otherwise we cannot go far and achieve the objectives of which colleagues have also spoken, such as that of carbon neutrality by 2050 with regard to greenhouse gas emissions. All this without resources and I do not know if the billions declined by President von der Leyen in ten years will be enough (in any case, should be concentrated in this seven-year period). It also has a certain effect to observe the behaviour of the so-called frugal countries, because we also have "frugal" countries in Northern Europe, those which for decades have benefited from European economic policies and today are barricaded against the proposal to provide the European Union with a budget in line with shared policy needs (and I repeat shared): an attitude that seems all the more short-sighted and selfish when compared with the far-sighted and sincerely pro-European attitude of a country like ours, Italy, which has always given the European Union much more than it has received and to a far greater extent than that of our "frugal" friends. On the other hand, that of net beneficiaries, we find Poland, Hungary and the other countries of Eastern Europe which, since they are more backward, have rightly been - and I repeat rightly - favoured in their basic development by virtue of the principle of equal cohesion. In fact, we cannot emphasise the cohesion policies between the North and the South of Italy and then forget that we must use the same meter for those states that are in technological backwardness, even if we must always remain very vigilant on wage and social dumping. Returning to cohesion policies, these countries not only think of their advantage, because with their progress, for example, the conditions of wage dumping that favour the relocation of our companies are lacking: they are obviously in favour of increasing the European budget, of which they will remain net beneficiaries. It is necessary to introduce in the new Multiannual Financial Framework mechanisms that make access to European funding conditional on compliance with European solidarity policies, first and foremost on the equitable redistribution of migrants seeking asylum and, more generally, on respect for human rights. We must never forget that we are talking about human beings and not about trading goods, nor about meat for slaughter. If we are to have macro-economic conditionality that binds access to finance to compliance with the European budget balance parameters, there must also be ethical, political and humanitarian conditionality. Staying in Europe and benefiting from the resulting rights implies the duty to take responsibility for shared responsibilities and to honour the founding principles of our common European home. With regard to balanced budgets, we consider it essential to include explicit flexibility in the Multiannual Financial Framework for green investment. We do not forget, Mr President: we must ensure that green investments are excluded from the Stability Pact; they must be brought out. The same is true of those needed to cope with environmental emergencies, because without those we will not achieve the ambitious goals we have set ourselves. Let us not forget, moreover, that there are also short-term complications, such as coronavirus, which has led to a sharp brake on the so-called European locomotive, namely Germany, one of the main exporters to Asian countries, and therefore we will soon have a negative return also to the whole of the European Union. The other points on which we believe it is necessary to commit the government are the request to draw up a package of financial resources belonging to the European Union, together with the maintenance of the VAT resource (because this was also feared, which would be a great damage to us), so that we can finance the green deal in an autonomous way, without having to recover resources elsewhere by making unacceptable cuts, for example on the common agricultural policy. This is all the more urgent if we want to reduce the negative impact of the financial hole left by Brexit: let us remember that Britain contributed about EUR 10-12 billion per year. Additional valuable own resources could reach the European Union from other green investments, such as carbon tax on imported non-EU products that produce high levels of carbon dioxide emissions, but also from an incisive European web tax and from systems of common taxation of multinationals. I would also like to make a quick pass on the so-called payout, i.e. the discount, because there have been net contributing countries (not Italy) that have benefited from discounts. In conclusion, Mr President, thank you once again and I am voting in favour of Movimento 5 Stars to motion for a resolution No 1. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Ironic applause and lively comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u78	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 1, tabled by Senators Pittella, Lorefice, Ginetti, De Petris and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for resolution No 2 (text 2), tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 3, tabled by Senator Calderoli and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Romeo and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution by a simultaneous ballot. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Bernini and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 5 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 6 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u81	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on a point of order. Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure states that after the statement by the President of the Council, each Member may submit a motion for a resolution. Of course I am not angry with the Group of Brothers of Italy, but I believe that it must be a principle to be established once and for all: if every senator can sign five or six resolutions, it is clear that this is contrary to what our Rules of Procedure provide. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But it also contrasts with what you have done before, because you have presented two. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I did not sign my group's motion for a resolution, so I did not oppose the Rules of Procedure. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But it's still two. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, Mr President: the signatories to my resolution have withdrawn their signature from the other motion for a resolution. Trust me. Allow me to conclude by putting all the points to you. I should like to add that, when we look at motions for resolutions Nos 1, 2 and 3. It will be noted that the operative part of the motion for a resolution No 6 corresponds exactly to the first part of the operative part of the main motion No 2 (text 2), the operative part of the motion for a resolution No 7 to the second part of the same operative part of resolution No 2 (text 2), the operative part of motion No 8 to its fifth point, the operative part of motion No 9 to its sixth point and the operative part of motion No 10 to its seventh point. If anyone wants to put forward individual arguments, he can ask for a separate vote in the main motion for a resolution, without insisting on tabling, even discussing the terms of the motion, other motions for resolutions which have the same content on which, among other things, we have already voted. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u82	I would like to point out to Senator Calderoli that Rule 105 of the Rules of Procedure, paragraph 1, states: "On the occasion of the debate" - obviously reference is made to the Government's communications - "each Senator may submit a motion for a resolution, which is voted upon at the end of the discussion." This means that the number of motions for resolutions tabled by a group cannot exceed the number of its members. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Who said that? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In this case, the number of motions for resolutions... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is so according to what has always been determined. It is certainly not a last-minute interpretation, but an interpretation that is part of a well-established practice. The number of motions for resolutions tabled by the Group of Brothers of Italy is no greater than the number of members of the Group. Therefore, with regard to the desire to submit separate motions for resolutions rather than to request a split vote, this is a decision which concerns exclusively the Brothers of Italy Group, which preferred to submit separate resolutions rather than to request, as you say (it was another possibility), a split vote. So I don't see what's particular about this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u85	CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have already voted on them. The motions for resolutions on the agenda, which you are now voting on, have already voted on them. And they were rejected by the House. They are not new proposals. No text has been rewritten. A piece of a resolution has simply been copied into a further resolution. But if that motion for a resolution has already been rejected, there is a foreclosure, as is the case in the parliamentary practice you are talking about. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u86	Senator Centinario, I would like to point out to you that, since the Brothers of Italy Group did not request a split vote, the motion for a resolution No 2 (text 2) tabled by Senators Ciriani to others was rejected as a whole. Therefore, there was an overall assessment that did not preclude the assessment on the individual parts. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 7 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 8, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 9 tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 10, tabled by Senator Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. The sitting shall be suspended until 5 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.23 a.m. and resumed at 17.01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u87	Colleagues, in relation to the progress of the Commission's proceedings, with regard to draft law No 1659 on the agenda, I suspend the sitting until 6 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 5 p.m. and resumed at 6.05 p.m.) Let's resume our work. I give the floor to the President of the Second Permanent Commission, Senator Ostellari, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u88	Mr President, I would like to say that the Commission's work is now suspended and will resume at 6.15 p.m. So we won't be ready until 7:00. I therefore call for a further suspension of the work of this House, so that we can resume the examination of the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u89	Without comment, I suspend the sitting until 7 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 6.06 p.m. and resumed at 7.14 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u90	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1659. I would ask the President of the Second Permanent Commission, Senator Ostellari, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u91	Mr President, the Commission has adopted 22 amendments relating to the Decree-Law under consideration out of 245 tabled initially, plus further amendments which had been tabled by the rapporteur, with subsequent reopening of the time limits for sub-amendments. Two amendments have not been voted on. An agenda was also presented, which was also declared inadmissible because of the extraneousness to the subject of the decree-law. At the moment, we are unable to close our work in the referee by giving the rapporteur the mandate, so I will give the floor to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u92	This is not the first time we have faced this situation. Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Ostellari's report, draft law No 1659, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text of the proposer without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u93	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again discussing the issue of the admissibility of the urgent decree, which in this case is absolutely lacking. I would like to remind you that this is, in essence, the fourth extension to the full entry into force of Legislative Decree No 216 of 2017. This tells you a lot about how you have legislated in this legislature. What is even more serious is that we take advantage of a decree-law, which wants to extend the deadlines of a few weeks for the entry into force of some articles of the aforementioned legislative decree, to introduce substantial reforms to the criminal process, at a time when - we read it in the press - a Council of Ministers has fired a bill for the reform of the penal code of procedure. That would have been the most appropriate place to make the changes that, instead, are allowed to enter from the window with the present decree-law. This is not to mention the fact that the same report of the Offices of the Senate has exposed the illegitimacy of the accounting of this decree-law, which is sold as to invariability of finance, while, instead, for the activities imposed on the prosecutors of the Republic, which will have to be equipped with efficient technical systems and staff employed, it needs considerable financial resources. However, I would like to focus here on an amendment which I consider to be very serious in relation to the principle of freedom and the right to confidentiality. I am referring to the introduction of the Trojan's usability for crimes against the public administration, which is already in place today, even if it is motivated in a certain way. This government believes with the decree-law to make it virtually free. Let me tell you about a parliamentary experience that serves to compare us to other democratic and legal countries like ours. A few weeks ago a delegation from the Anti-Mafia Commission went to America: someone felt it was a pleasure visit, a holiday. No: it was an interesting mission, during which we were able to verify - in America there is no obligation to prosecute - that in that country they assess the needs of national security to protect against the investments to be made in the field of justice to combat certain crimes. They have come to the determination that it is absolutely essential for them to fight and fight terrorism - they have been the sacrificial victims of terrorist acts more than all others - and the trade in drugs. On these two fronts they commit resources, technologies and men. We had already introduced the captor's use of Mafia and terrorist offences. I believe that terrorism is a threat to national security and, in the face of such a threat, we must sacrifice part of our freedom in order to safeguard that of all others. The fight against terrorism is certainly a primary requirement of our country, because we have paid a very high price: representatives of the State have consumed and sacrificed their lives to defend the institutions. Here too, we must limit part of our freedom to protect security and combat terrorism. However, by inserting the possibility of using the trojan to fight crimes against the public administration - they are certainly hateful and to be countered, but they do not need such a pervasive investigative element that it enters not only the workplace and aggregation, but also the bedrooms, intimacy, feelings and emotions - you shoot with a cannon to kill a mosquito. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You punish the freedom, confidentiality, feelings and emotions of people to fight 30 or 40 beggars, politicians or bureaucrats, handling within the public administration. We have some of the most professional police forces and we are mortifying them because we are making them terminals of complex collection systems. We are making them lose the taste and culture of investigation to fight a phenomenon that must certainly be combated, but that I do not think has a business of 100 billion like that of organized crime and drug dealing. That is where men, resources and technologies must be engaged. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We let investigators play their part, carrying out investigations into crimes against the public administration. There's another matter. This government becomes insensitive and goes against a jurisprudential orientation that was consecrated not a year ago, but a few weeks ago by the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, according to which they are not usable for authorised interception investigations for crimes other than those for which it is proceeding. You write a rule completely opening the possibility to use all the interceptions, without justification and without indicating the places and modalities, also for crimes other than those for which they were authorized, extending in fact the hypotheses covered in the order - today limited by paragraph 2-a of article 266 of the code of criminal procedure - to all those referred to in paragraph 1 of the same article. This is not a rule of law, but it becomes a police state. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] If to fight corruption we must transform our country into a police state, we make a dictatorial state, if you do not want to take the risk of prescription, but do not gag the Italians, mortifying them in their feelings and affections. We must fight the mafia and drugs with all our resources and energy, but not in the way you have carried out your purpose. The measure under consideration is unconstitutional and I am surprised that the Government, which is attentive, does not blink in front of the incoming alarms: • Unprepared procurement: defer the new rule on interceptions • • Recommend the new standard on interceptions • Recommend the new standard on interceptions • Recommend the new standard on interceptions • Justice reform, lawyers: a disaster, justice, yes to the technical table, but after we have approved the reform; Big brother (...). Spread our cell phones. "Great brother of state (...) all spied on without control" "Interceptions, the CNF warns: "Interviews between lawyer and assistant must be protected." "Interceptions," the CSM asks for three more months. The new interceptions are not safe. I mean, do you read these things? Who are you two from the Ministry dealing with? Do you compare yourself with the experts on this subject or do you compare yourself to each other, as if you were playing trumps? Here we are talking about essential rights that can be protected by the State and the Constitution. Pay attention because, even if this decree-law were to be approved, I am convinced that there will be a further extension, because the prosecutors are unprepared and there is no staff. We heard this from the Minister of Justice on the occasion of the inauguration of the judicial year: 2,500 recruitments have been planned, but over the next three years, while this reform comes into force in a few weeks' time. The prosecutors are unprepared, they do not have the technologies, not to mention the methods and places in which these interceptions are kept. I shall begin with the conclusion, Mr President. I address the representatives of the government: instead of reuniting you to make rabid and irrational laws, give answers to the territories. I have tabled a parliamentary question on the citadel of justice in Taranto and I have asked the Minister: for weeks I have been trying to contact the Chief of Cabinet, without results. At the inauguration of the judicial year in Lecce I spoke with the representative of the Ministry, but I did not receive any reply. Those are the reforms that the country feels the need for. For all these reasons and for the violation of the Constitution and international conventions, we ask you to reflect: amend and withdraw the decree-law in question; make it one that prolongs the entry into force of these articles to 31 December 2020 and do the reform of the criminal process, if you are able, because it is in that place that you have to insert such norms. Do not put a hood on the freedom of citizens, because our country has always been the cradle of law and you are transforming it into the coffin of law. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u94	He asked Senator Urraro to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP2. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u95	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reform of interceptions, although approved in 2017, has never become effective, as a result of three referrals. A few days after the entry into force, we are witnessing changes in content that are urgently to be approved by means of a decree-law, but, at the same time, the text is expected to postpone its application for another two months. It is not clear where the requirements for the decree of urgency are and how it may be permissible to intervene by decree-law in a sensitive matter such as that of interceptions. The beginning of the case is linked to a term that may appear in contradiction with the requirements of necessity and urgency imposed by the Constitution for decree-laws, at least for a part of the doctrine. The text of the bill has important apories of constitutional character, as well as logical: it unites, in fact, under the same legal treatment, which is characterized by being unreasonablely penalising, different technical tools such as the interceptions of conversations and the acquisition of telephone records. Article 2 provides, by amendment to paragraph 2-a of Article 266, that the activities of environmental interception through the use of the trojan, already allowed for the crimes of public officials against the public administration, pursuant to Law No 3 of 2019, are also related to the crimes of the public service officers against the public administration. This rule makes clear the violation of Articles 3 and 25 of the Constitution. The amendments to Article 267 of the Code of Criminal Procedure aim, on the one hand, to extend to the crimes of public service officers against public administration the derogation rules on organised crime. In particular, the intention expressed by the legislator in 2017 was to exclude the crimes against the public administration from those for which it was necessary to indicate the places and the time, even indirectly determined, in relation to which the activation of the microphone is allowed. Now, on the other hand, a threefold regime is being implemented, which is truly dissociated from the premise of the chronological summa division between criminal proceedings entered before and after 1 March 2020. There is in fact a tertium genus, which is that of article 6 of the legislative decree 29 December 2017, n. 216, that not only applies already from last year to public officials, but from 1 January 2020 it also extends to those in charge of public service. Paragraph 4 of Article 267 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, with the deletion of the last period, eliminates the provision in the matter of jurisdiction of the judicial police, widening its power with the provision that it should not inform the prosecutor in advance: this choice is clearly marked by a singular and paradoxical disfavor towards the interception tout court, although it, in the current criminal procedural law, constitutes a means of research of the typical evidence, provided for and regulated by the Code of Criminal Procedure, which, to this end, states detailed provisions aimed at ensuring the formal and substantial legitimacy of the investigation activity that the interception makes use of. The text proposed by the Government appears to be ectu oculi aimed at severely restricting the assumptions themselves, as well as the concrete methods of experimenting a useful procedural instrument, thus damaging the identification of the sources of proof and pursuing an objective objective which is objectively contrary to the easy ascertainment of the truth, the final objective of the criminal process. Again: in Article 268 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, paragraph 4, any violation of the right of defence is revealed as the five-day period is limited to that right. In addition, in previous attempts to intervene on the subject there was also a discipline consistent with all the other regulations that refer to the aforementioned article 268, as is the case of law n. 140 of 2003: this time this does not happen, with the serious risk of conflicts deriving from the reference to disciplines now surpassed by the new regulatory intervention. Article 270 of the Code of Criminal Procedure refers to the modification of the legal references relating to the removal procedure, in order to coordinate the rule with the amendments to Article 268 and with a remodulation, also in the light of the recent judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, of the limiting rule of the possibilities for the use of the results of the interceptions received through trojans for the proof of crimes other than those in relation to which the interception had been authorised. Last but not least, Article 89 of the implementing provisions should be stigmatized, in which it was provided that the arrangements for the transmission of interceptions via trojans to the premises of the Republic's Public Prosecutor should be determined by decree of the Minister of Justice. Article 89- bis revisits the discipline of the wiretapping archive and provides that, by decree of the Minister of Justice, the technical requirements of the computer programs functional to the interceptions through trojans, computer programs that must have characteristics such as to guarantee reliability, safety and effectiveness. Therefore, a ministerial decree - in total countertrend with respect to the content of the law delegation no. 103 of 2017 that, in Article 84, would have wanted to be specified in a specific way the implementation modalities - will establish the criteria to which the holders of the proxy offices will have to conform in order to regulate the access to the archive by the defenders and other holders of the right of access. The possibility of extending the results of the intercepts between present through trojans also to the proof of crimes other than those for which the decree of authorization has been issued involves a dangerous extension of the use of an instrument, in itself insidious for the rights of the individual, as we have seen from the critical remarks formulated in this regard by the Privacy Supervisor, to a park of crimes extremely wide. Added to this is the serious distortion of the purposes of the interception which, from the means of research of evidence for crimes that the prosecutor already assumes committed (or in the course of a commission) - for which there is therefore a preliminary investigation in progress - would be transformed surreptitiously into a tool to identify crimes at a stage prior to the formal opening of the criminal investigation: in other words, a sort of trawling, with circumvention of the guarantees and forms connected with the establishment of criminal proceedings. In the decree-law in question, different constitutional rights and principles are affected: the right of defence and the right to a fair trial (Articles 24, paragraph 2, and 111, paragraph 3, first period, of the Constitution), understood both in the meaning of the right to contest the person subject to investigation to be informed of the fact that an investigation against him is in progress; the principle of legality - conceived here in a procedural key - referred to in Article 25, paragraph 2, of the Constitution, since the number of crimes referred to by article 266 paragraph 2-a of the Code of Criminal Procedure is too broad, also taking into account the extreme insidiousness of the appeal, wide range, to the instrument that would like to legitimize with the proposal in question. It is quite clear that, once again, although it does not respond immediately to the aims announced as a matter of urgency by the measure in question, an urgent decree has been used which undermines the basis of maintaining a proper balance between the constitutional bodies, because it produces an institutional imbalance between Parliament and the Government, through the vulnus to Article 70 of the Constitution, which entrusts the legislative function to the Chambers, but above all because it declares the urgency of a measure which, in fact, does not satisfy it. The measure before this Assembly, therefore, not only violates Articles 3, 24, 25 and 111 of the Constitution, but also contradicts one of the fundamental principles on which the Constitutional Court has always founded the argumentative paths linked to compliance with the indispensable requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency for the legitimate adoption of decree-laws. And again: the present decree-law integrates clear criticalities with regard to the presuppositions of constitutionality, as well as obvious shortcomings of content, merit and obvious excesses of delegation. In short, it is noted that the bill no. 1659 clearly conflicts with the numerous articles of the Constitution highlighted, as well as with the consolidated jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. On behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group, I ask, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, not to proceed with the examination of the Senate Act 1659. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u96	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a single debate will take place on the questions referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u99	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Fratelli d'Italia Group will vote in favour of both the above-mentioned preliminary rulings. We will vote in favour because it is clear to everyone that the prosecutors are not ready to face such a challenge in such a short time, as we have been widely told during the hearings. It is truly unbelievable that the Government and the majority want to move forward knowing very well that, in a few weeks' time, the decree-law will come into force, even as a result of the amendment extending this entry further - in fact, I recall that it was initially due to enter into force on 1 March and then the rapporteur's amendments extended it further to April - even then the majority of prosecutors will not be ready to deal with the task entrusted to them. The point, however, is not just that. As we all know by now, the virus that is inoculated into the simplest electronic device, transforming it into an electronic receiver, so-called trojan, has a greater invasive power than was initially imagined. In fact, not only will each of our phones be transformed into a transceiver; not only will it be impossible through this computer system to access our files, our information, our cameras and our videos, but even, through it, it will be possible to inoculate new files, new letters, emails, images and anything else in each recipient's device. If we consider that the task will be entrusted not directly to prosecutors, police and prosecutors, but to third-party foreign companies, you understand very well the danger that every citizen will run the risk of being created false evidence through this system. We have raised this issue several times in the Commission, but no one has been able to explain to us what the systems will be to cope with the serious danger. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Therefore, in the face of these dangers, I believe that common sense should lead each of us not to widen the use of such a system in an immeasurable way, as the Government and the majority want to do, even against the guidelines that emerged in the Supreme Court of Cassation before the discipline was regulated. I would like to point out that not only the last sentence of a few weeks ago, cited by those who preceded me, but already for a few years the Supreme Court has justified the use of the trojan only in extraordinary cases linked to the fight against organised crime and terrorism, and has dictated the guidelines to limit its intrusiveness. Well, the majority and the government do exactly the opposite, extending its usability to a great extent as well as the places where data and conversations can be activated. I am referring in particular to places of private residence, which should instead be protected as a guarantee of the confidentiality of every citizen, allowing, only exceptionally and in the face of very serious crimes, the possibility of violating the domicile of each of us. We are therefore very sceptical about the possibility of turning this important instrument into a means of protecting citizens' security. We are very concerned that from an instrument to the protection of the security of our citizens it can instead become a further means of oppression in order to limit even more the freedom of each of us. For these reasons, we will vote strongly in favour of the prejudices presented by the Forza Italia and Lega groups. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u102	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, the questions referred by the League and its colleagues in Forza Italia, which were presented by Senator Urraro and Mr Vitali respectively, as well as by Senator Balboni, are certainly exhaustive in terms of the violation of the articles of the Constitution. On the other hand, the subject of the preliminary ruling is mainly concerned with this. Moreover, we had presented it before the time, highlighting all the criticalities that the decree-law in question brings with it. However, since today's day has been quite a busy day, I would like to stress the reasons which have essentially prompted the League to occupy the benches of the Justice Commission. These are questions of method and merit. As far as the method is concerned, we have pointed out it several times: to those who say that we behave badly or have little institutional respect because we are dealing with a House, I say that there is little institutional respect on the part of a majority and a government that do not approve even one of our amendments, nor do they have any desire to discuss the issues that are brought to the attention. As we have already pointed out, it is based on the amendments, without having in fact the opinion of the Budget Commission - a situation that has never happened - and trust is placed on time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There is little respect for Parliament here for the attitude of the current majority and the government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Faced with this, the minimum trade union we can do - and I say this to the Presidency - is to occupy the House. Tell us what the means could be to ensure that minorities can be heard and tell them about the various measures. None of this: quick times, rushing, no debate, no acceptance of anything, no political confrontation. Eventually go ahead, you have the numbers: legitimate. However, the least the League can do is try to highlight certain issues. There are so many issues that have been discussed in the Commission; there will be a general discussion, probably following the debate on trust. On the contrary, it even seems that the text of the maxi amendment is already ready. So you have prepared yourselves in time to the detriment of everything we could discuss or vote in the Commission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is further evidence of the fact that you do not treat minorities in any way. The question, however, is also a matter of merit. This afternoon, in fact, a very unpleasant episode took place, because in the measure, which can be criticized from a technical point of view (infringement of rules or other), in fact we go to expand the powers related to interceptions on all types of crime possible and imaginable, except in the matter of child pornography. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You'll have to explain this to the Italians. VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'AZ GROUP. Shame! Shame! ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). You will have to explain it to the Italians, because on this topic you make distinctions, as on all types: forward, you have to use a trojan and all possible systems, even if the same companies do not guarantee that, from when you make the interceptions to when you transmit to the proxy, the data are not altered. You don't care about all this: all the crimes, go ahead; then you have to wonder how the PD can vote for such a measure, but we will have the time and the way to explain it; we are talking about PD, a political force that called itself a guarantor, or maybe the same Italy Viva. The subject, however, is how such an attitude is possible in the face of such an amendment, with which, among other things, it was essentially asked to expand what is already planned for some types of today, that is, the possibility of making interceptions to find even those who hold the child pornography material in the computer. That was simply our will. But, in the face of an amendment that we have made available for discussion, the answer has been absolutely negative: a complete margin on this issue, which we do not touch. Excuse me, but, looking at what has happened over the months, we suspect that when it comes to combating some crimes involving minors, the present majority is a little stuck. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] How long have we taken to finally reach the definition of the Special Committee of Inquiry into Forteto? There was little time left for the end of the parliamentary term and the Commission of Inquiry had not yet set up. On video surveillance in kindergartens and RSA (health care residences), after all the episodes of violence that have occurred, we all signed a measure: it is there, however, blocked, because opinions do not come from the government. That's the truth. Now let us address the subject of child pornography and begin the distinctions: no, we wait, we make the agenda and we will see; then change with a measure. No, this is not a question of an agenda: if, after the adoption of the laws, the implementing decrees are not even made, let alone if an agenda can have the hope of getting to the bottom of it! It's a mockery of everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] On this subject you will have to answer the Italians, because it is really scandalous, with everything that happens, and not respectful of the abuse of children - of all nationalities, it is clear - but it is also shameful that you do not take absolutely care of it. For these reasons, we shall vote yes to the question referred for a preliminary ruling. There is no more reason to vote on a preliminary question than what has been said in this House by us who have spoken. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u105	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of the questions referred for a preliminary ruling on the decree-law before this House is purely pretentious, with clear obstructionist and dilatory aims. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] , especially in the eyes of those who have clear the delicacy of the subject of regulatory intervention. The theme of interceptions of communications or conversations for investigation purposes is at the crossroads of a number of constitutionally relevant rights and interests of primary importance. On the one hand, in fact, it is necessary to ensure that the subjects of the criminal trial, including the defender, are given all the means necessary to investigate more effectively the commission of crimes and to provide effective evidence, especially in terms of the protection of the contradictory, as required by Article 111 of the Constitution. On the other hand, the protection of investigation needs cannot go as far as the compression of certain inviolable rights, such as those to defence and confidentiality, but, on the contrary, it must remain strictly functional to them. The objective, perfectly achieved by this Decree-Law, was the correct balance of the prerogatives provided for in Article 15 of the Constitutional text. The guarantee of inviolability laid down by the article in question, as regards the freedom and secrecy of any correspondence and any other form of communication, is limited only by the reasoned act of the judicial authority with the guarantees laid down by law. The latter are fully enclosed in Chapter IV of Book III of the Code of Criminal Procedure which this decree has gone to read. The decree-law is, in fact, aimed essentially at innovating the discipline of interceptions according to the necessary protection of the confidentiality of persons, while providing correctives aimed at eliminating some distorting effects, specifically in terms of the protection of defensive guarantees and functionality in the conduct of preliminary investigations, that could have been produced with the immediate and integral application of the legislative decree 29 December 2017, n. 216. The 2017 news would have entered into force on 1 January 2020 in a context with many issues to be resolved, if the decree-law that was the subject of our debate had not intervened. On some sensitive aspects, such as the inescapable need for a judicial passage for the acquisition of interceptions of documents, it was intended to restore the text of the Code of Criminal Procedure in the version prior to regulatory intervention, preserving and widening, however, the rules on the use of the so-called trojan - but always keeping in mind the balance provided for in Article 15 of the Constitution - and arranging the destination to the digital archive, established at each prosecutor's office in the Republic, of the material intercepted with the ability to listen for defenders and for the judge for preliminary investigations. Moreover, the strict prohibitions of transcription imposed by Legislative Decree n. 216 of 2017 are eliminated by establishing that the unusable or manifestly irrelevant records, like those pertaining to categories of sensitive data as defined by the relevant legislation, if not necessary to the investigations, remain kept in archive following the removal procedure already regulated by Article 268 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, restored on the point. The necessary protection of confidentiality and the extension of the possibilities for analysis of the interceptive material by the public prosecutor have led to replace the mechanism governed by Legislative Decree No 216 of 2017 of selection by the judicial police of interceptions not usable with a duty of supervision of the public prosecutor, so that conversations or communications containing harmful expressions of the reputation of persons, or those concerning personal data defined sensitive by law, are not transcribed in the verbalization of conversations or communications, provided that they are not intercepted relevant for the purposes of investigations. In this way the prosecutor is the dominus of the prosecution, having full confidence in what is actually transcribed by the judicial police operations. Modulating the balance between investigative needs, the right of defence and privacy, the legislator has become guarantor of the principle of proportionality between privacy and investigative means, on which the Court of Justice has founded its most far-sighted jurisprudence, as well as of the indications given by the European Court of Human Rights, in particular regarding the use of irrelevant interceptions. Schematizing the novels made to legislative decree n. 216 of 2017, the reform of the reform affects a threefold front: first, the legislator focuses in the sphere of competence of the prosecutor the work of selecting the material collected relevant for the purposes of the investigations, with a view to a greater effectiveness of the alerted; second, refines the modalities of deposit of the written minutes, with a view to a greater guarantee of transparency of the activities carried out, strengthening - on the one hand - the contradictory with the defender of the suspect and - on the other - the requirements of secrecy and confidentiality of the information learned during the execution of the operations; finally, modifying the procedure of acquisition and transcription, speed up the procedural timetables, ensuring the correctness and expedition of the bureaucratic obligations. Moreover, it is commendable the voluntas laws to strengthen the guarantee of the right of defence with a view to a more aware procedural participation. The 2017 legislation is in fact reformed with a view to extending the powers of the defenders who, in addition to the faculty to examine the acts, listen to the recordings and to take into account the flows of computer or telematic communications, are entitled to obtain copies of the recordings and acts, once acquired. Equally valuable is the intention to adapt the regulatory system to the challenges specific to the technological era, indicating a greater sensitivity of the legislator to the scientific data: we note the will to strengthen the use of the tool of the telematic consultation of the digital archive, in which the minutes, the acts and the recordings of the interceptions are kept to trace the completion of the operations and, consequently, to guarantee the legitimacy of the work of the investigative bodies. Finally, the choice to introduce ex novo the regulation of the chain of custody of data and of the information acquired through the use of the computer receiver, in order to guarantee the integrity of the data and their perfect correspondence with respect to the recorded and transmitted, as well as the greater attention dedicated to the protection of the confidentiality and reputation of the persons intercepted through the introduction of the absolute prohibition of publication of the intercepts acquired irregularly and the forecast, referred to in the new article 268, paragraph 2-a, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that the prosecutor give indications and vigilance so that they are not transcribed, if they are not essential for the purposes of the investigations, the damaging expressions of the reputation and the confidentiality of the intercepted. For the reasons set out above, there is no question of obstructing the continuation and successful conclusion of the examination of the decree-law, which - I repeat - brings a new and better balance between a number of constitutionally important rights and interests of primary importance. I therefore declare the Group's vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u108	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to stress that there is, first of all, a strong responsibility of the Minister for Justice, who drew up the decree-law in question, arguing that there were all the guarantees in terms of the instrumentation necessary for the activation of the interceptions. We have listened to prosecutors from the Republic who have said that there are no instruments and it is not possible to bring the measure into force in six months' time. We have also heard the agencies dealing with interceptions with their instruments, and they have also said that it is impossible for the connection system directly from the interception to the digital register to work. Everyone has spoken in these terms, after which we have arranged a new hearing and this time the Ministry, after having indicated further elements, has demanded a clarification from some agencies that have spoken, rather than of impossibility, of difficulties that remain. Then, with a parliamentary amendment, the entry into force of the measure was moved to 30 April 2020: for a decree-law approved in December, against which it was said that all the instruments were available and all the activities were already started, it was found that there was insufficient enough to move its entry into force by four months. But that's not all: our country was respected in the world for fighting terrorism without ever altering the procedural guarantees. The decree-law under consideration, on the other hand, alters the procedural guarantees in our system. The first question is that it is not possible, at the time of the introduction of the principle of being able to use the interceptions (not those with the trojan, the normal ones) assumed for any of the offences referred to in Article 266, paragraph 1, of the Code of Criminal Procedure, to establish that they can be used for any other crime mentioned in that article. I would like to take the example of a wiretap for drug trafficking, smuggling or crimes against the public administration. They are a series of crimes for which interceptions can be used indifferently, once acquired in a trial, also for other trials, because they are indicated in Article 266 without any reference to the need for a connection between the different crimes. The ignorance of this Parliament is such that it did not want to take into account a judgment of the Court of Cassation in joined sections just twenty-five days ago which claimed the need for connection, Article 12 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. So, there would have been a specific indication. It has been said no, because we wanted to introduce in our country a system - as Mr Vitali said - from a police state, because it is a matter of broadening any hypothesis without any guarantee for the subject investigated. The same is true of the Trojan. With this device, all the guarantees provided are eliminated. In fact, with the corrupt sweep provision the crimes against public administration had become the same as those of mafia and terrorism. I would just like to remind you that since the time of John Falcone, the double track for the laws of mafia and terrorism has been justified precisely because it is limited to this sector. If we spread it out, it doesn't make sense anymore. Therefore, Senator Romeo is right, who recently recalled Senator Pillon's amendment on child pornography offences. If you expand, then you have to give a specification. Mr Mirabelli, there is no way of justifying the exclusion of serious crimes of child pornography by saying that there are only crimes against the public administration. No, these crimes are not the same as the crimes of mafia and terrorism: they are completely different. Too bad not having the ability and the technical cognition to understand what the difference is; there is a fundamental difference. We have experienced the sad age of the dead on the streets in the period of terrorism. There was a logic. We have experienced the violence of the Mafia which has been enchanted even within power. For these reasons, a serious fight is needed. But in crimes against the public administration there is not this same requirement, and not for my evaluation. What is Trojan, for those who do not know? It is a program that works even when you send an email in your phone; it works anyway, even at night; even if you turn it off, it works the same, and not only to receive, but also to photograph. It becomes a continuous activity, without any guarantee. Do you realize that? This work is carried out by private agencies, which will then have to transfer the data. Today there is no possibility - as I said before - of immediate transfer. In the face of such a situation, there should have been a minimum of attention. I note that the President had also tabled an amendment to allow ten more days to the defenders of the parties to make a study and to have the perception of the material inquiry. Well, they only wanted to include the possibility of making an extension. But do you know who has to grant the extension? It must be granted by the prosecutor who has arranged the investigations, which is quite absurd. It is much better to identify a longer fixed time limit, so as to ensure that the lawyer is able to take the intercept data. Beware: we must never conceive the procedural norms as an impediment to the ascertainment of the truth. We must build procedural rules that are a guarantee that the process will fulfil its function, which is not to arrive at the conviction, but to ascertain individual responsibilities on the basis of actual investigations, without any limitation from the point of view of the possible ones, but according to the guarantees provided by our Constitution. On the other hand, it is not possible to introduce a system that is now shattered and has no chance of working. So I wonder: are we really convinced that our country, as a great nation of legal civilization and defender of individual freedoms, should be reduced to a police state simulacrum? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u109	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1) and Senator Pillon and other senators (QP2). (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u110	Mr President, in fact, the criticalities of this measure... [[Brusio.]] Maybe someone wants to listen.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u111	You're right, Senator. The day has been long and will still be. Therefore, I would ask the senators to allow my colleague to speak by observing a moderate silence. Whoever has to go out do it, please, in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u112	Please, Senator Pilgrims. The time you lost because of the interruption will be considered. PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). I will not abuse the time, but I think that I will advance a few minutes also because the criticalities of the measure have been partially already listed during the discussion of the questions for a preliminary ruling. I shall confine myself to an analysis of the progress of the work in the Commission. As we know, we have reached this point after more than two weeks in which we have tried to work to try to find a useful position not so much for the majority or the minority, but for the respect of citizens' rights. Perhaps we forget what we are called upon to do in this House: we are here to make laws for the benefit of citizens. (Brusio). Probably not everyone cares. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I call for silence on the left side of the House, i.e. between the benches of the Democratic Party, of Italy Viva-PSI and the Movimento 5 Stars. That goes for everyone. Please, Senator Pilgrims. PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). That goes for everyone. It's a lot for me. Perhaps we too often forget that the laws we have to adopt in this House are for the citizens who voted for us on one side or the other. In these two and a half weeks of debate, however, I have simply seen a job of: 'We agree to vote on this part of this amendment, rather than this one, because at least we agree on all the various political forces, very varied and different from each other.' [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Clearly, the main concept of parliamentaryism is missing. I remember the speeches made in Parliament by the great political fathers - they were here where I am now, and I am therefore honored to participate in this House - which I listened to on television as a child: then we were talking about rights, about merit, but today we are simply talking about 'I'm giving you this if you give me this other.' So the right: what are we talking about? We often repeat in the Justice Commission that we need to talk about issues of substance. In two years that I am here, this week we have reached a very low point, because we have not dealt with the main concept. The first important point is urgent decision-making. We discussed the question of the preliminary ruling and were allowed to go en passant. A measure of this magnitude, adopted with a decree-law, characterizes the action of government, which wants to go ahead with majority blows. Soon we will vote on the matter of trust; you will vote on this Government's confidence in this measure and take responsibility for it. It is a responsibility that those who were in the Commission and who took part in the hearings should perhaps feel on their shoulders. We have heard not some association, not some private citizen, but the prosecutors of the Republic at the courts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] They told us: stop, take the time you need. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We're here making, not candy, but laws. If the judiciary also tells us that we must take time and discuss the matter, perhaps we should ask ourselves a question, whose answer is to proceed calmly, without wasting time, but by seriously analysing the issues. We have not only listened to prosecutors - and I repeat: I do not remember a prosecutor who told us to go on like this and that the decree-law is fine as it is - but also companies - maybe it is something we have forgotten - who told us that the alignment of data between the various digital archives is not at the moment possible. Attention: this undermines one of the principles of the trial, the contradictory, the equality of position between accusation and defence. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But obviously the principle of contradictory, which we studied at the university at the faculty of jurisprudence, is no longer in the Constitution. [[Brusio. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Clearly, there is no willingness to listen to criticism either.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u113	Senator, the presidency will take care of this. Colleagues, let the government stalls go.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u114	PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). I was saying, if we cannot guarantee the principle of contradictoryness within the process, what are we doing? Look, the lawyer class isn't there to break up and that's all -- they're a little populous, it's true -- but maybe it's making us realize that we need good rules. My mother used to say, "Do things clean." I came here to try to work well, but obviously not everyone is here to work well. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Evidently, most of those who make up the present majority are here simply to keep their seats. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The question of the transfer of data was minimized by the Government in a continuation of the hearing, attended by two officials of the Ministry, very prepared, which I thank again, because they gave us important information anyway. To date, however, I cannot deny in a comprehensive way the lack of security in the transfer of the data complained by the companies. With what responsibility, then, do I support a measure, when I do not have the technical basis for saying that the procedure is safe? Who in this House today can make this decision without having any kind of problem with their own conscience? I honestly don't take this responsibility, I leave it to others. Today I say no to the decree-law in question [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I say no to this type of measure - of course - after the Ministry has already spent a great deal of money. Perhaps we forget, in fact, that the servers already purchased by the Ministry today are partially unusable. Let us not forget, then, always with regard to the storage of servers - perhaps we have forgotten - that many prosecutors have asked how it will work then the storage of servers, the storage of data; data that are ours, it is the data of citizens, because with the use of trojans - as has been rightly said before - they enter our homes. It is correct to prosecute crimes. It is correct to pursue prosecution, absolutely. It is necessary, however, to guarantee the rights of the defence! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, please let the government benches go. Please, Senator Pilgrims. PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). The costs that have been incurred are for goods within the courts that we do not know how they are managed today. That's what the prosecutors say. I repeat that I do not want to go too far, because I do not think it is appropriate to waste time and not because we are faced with a measure that should have been important. However, the way to approach the measure with the systematic and ordinary rejection of every single amendment proposed by the opposition is genuinely embarrassing, partly because the amendments proposed by my Group have not been tabled at all to take time or to carry out obstructive action. Absolutely not. However, the systematicity of the no coming from the benches of the Government, of the sign "do not pass," of the sign "do not accept anything" and we carry forward only what we want shows an authoritarian scope from the Government that I do not accept. I don't accept that. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] 20:17) (Pellegrini Emanuele followed). Senator Romeo earlier pointed out that the majority, evidently, does not respect minorities. It doesn't matter to minorities, but I say more: not only do minorities not matter, but it doesn't even matter to citizens because, if they don't care about the voices of all those in here, it's clear that they don't want to listen to anyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The confidence that will soon come is placed on a measure at first reading. This is something I have very rarely seen done and perhaps never, in almost two years in Parliament. Even when I was following parliamentary work, I have honestly never seen this kind of trust. Well, I believe that this should lead to a serious and much broader analysis of the role of Parliament and of all individual Members, and I think that we should all do this together, but we probably have to do it next time, when the citizens finally decide who really has to go to the government of this country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u115	Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u116	Mr President, in fact, there is a lot of talk going on about justice these days and there is a lot of confusion and rhetoric going on. I do not go into the technicalities of the law, which I leave to the lawyers and judges of the Group, but I need to intervene on the political concepts that are within this debate and on political falsehoods. You said you'd vouch for it. Well, I do not allow anyone to say that he does not guarantee me, because I believe that guaranteeing is an essential value of the rule of law. But I ask you, what do you guarantee? Are you on the roadblock, which you made a criminal offense? Therefore, Nicoletta Dosio, seventy-four years old, will have to do a year in jail and since in Turin, in Val di Susa, there is a special regime included in Law No 119 of 2013, in the matter of feminicide, others will follow it for a political and social opposition. Who's in jail? For whom would you guarantee that you would oppose the stop to the prescription and the interceptions for crime of corruption? Who do you defend using the words rule of law and law? Do not defend those who commit social and political crimes, because these people are not guaranteed, they are full of jails. Just as they are full of those who have committed lesser crimes: thefts and robberies, which are then reduced to stealing a cell phone. Here: for those no one is guaranteed. I tell you then that we would need a distinction in dealing with sensitive issues of justice: distinguishing social and political crimes from other crimes, such as corruption. Yes, I quote corruption, which is not - as Senator Vitali said - a small thing, reserved for a few, but it is a crime that costs us 230 billion euros a year. We are the worst in Europe and that is why perhaps the other nations do not deal with it and concentrate their spending on justice on others. To us, however, corruption costs 13% of GDP, almost EUR 4,000 per inhabitant per year, twice those of France and Germany; resources that alone could solve the major social emergencies, because 230 billion are worth once and a half the national budget for public health, 16 times what it takes to combat unemployment, 337 times the expenditure on social housing. Let's not talk about education. How many things could we do with those billions? What do we do? We defend corruption with the banner of the rule of law. No: when these instruments become weapons to defend the indefensible, they must be scorned. 80% of Italians think that corruption is an endemic fact and not denounces it because it is part of our social, civil and labour state. However, there is good news that I want to communicate to you, who are so behind the polls: 79 percent of Italians believe that this is a cancer to be eradicated as soon as possible. I'm with these, I'm a guarantor, but not with corruption. I'm a guarantor, but not for those who can use the prescription to get out of it without being tried. So, I tell you to listen to your words, when you hide behind such important banners, because you are making a dishonorable use of them. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u117	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u118	Mr President, we are discussing the discipline of the use of interceptions after years of political debate on this issue and, however, we cannot discuss it in the same way as we were discussing it - for example - in the 2008 parliamentary term, because in the meantime there have been many technological innovations and new possibilities for the dissemination of the contents of the interceptions that have further changed the scenario. I would say that, in the meantime, we have a first result with this measure, which I, together with others, personally wanted. We have discussed this too often, overlapping the issue of publication of communications with that of the instrument as a means of searching for evidence. The approach has changed depending on who had the ball in his hand at the time: in the 2008 legislature - for example - he tried to intervene exclusively to limit the use of the means of research of the evidence, when instead there is also the theme of the guarantee of the privacy of the persons subject to investigation in a procedure, that not only for this reason they must see their private life advertised and everything that does not pertain to the crime. So here, not without difficulty - of course there are when we enter into practice, starting from the attempt already begun in the last parliamentary term - we finally distinguish between the question of the means of research of proof and the issue of publication. There is one point here, which I am satisfied with, although it does not hide the difficulties of the text in question, which is obviously the result of a debate and the search for a balance. In the last parliamentary term, on the other hand, it has happened to me several times, in dealing with the subject, to see me oppose the fact that honest people have nothing to hide and, therefore, we can all be intercepted on any subject. I believe that the balance we have reached is advanced and I consider it a positive result that a majority of the present Parliament has come to share the fact that the Constitution itself, by protecting the confidentiality of communications, allows us to enter this sphere only and exclusively because there is a need to ensure evidence of a crime. Therefore, it is absolutely objectionable and it is to be rejected the fact that, once it has been acquired, it can therefore be used independently: that end remains instead a fixed point and a watershed. In keeping with this principle, it is finally distinguished between interceptions of communications and relevant and irrelevant content; it gives itself the responsibility to identify relevance and irrelevance, however allowing the defense to access even what had been deemed irrelevant, for defensive purposes, and therefore it is not an absolute judgment, because there is obviously an element of discretion. It is therefore a person responsible in the qualified figure of the prosecutor and the secrecy of all that is not relevant is expected, which therefore not only cannot be published, but is also covered by secrecy. In any case, in the work carried out in the Commission by means of the amendment work, it has been expressly regulated not only the fact that everything that is not relevant and does not concern exclusively the motivation on the hypothesis of crime is not publicable and goes into the secret archive, but also that secrecy is protected to the point that it is sanctionable even those who compete in the violation of secrecy. Among other things, we are concerned that we have the maximum possibility of defenses to access this material. At the same time, the type of access for what is not relevant, which therefore must be telematic, we understand what it means. In the meantime - as I said - many things have happened, some of them also in this first part of the legislature. I try not to be polemical at all, but it is a fact of the record: those who voted on the so-called scrambled law, i.e. the previous majority, of which the League was also a member, voted on the inclusion and extension also to the crimes of corruption of the use of a number of means. Today, when we discussed the measure, we were faced with this. Well, I think this medium is certainly very invasive and technological, but in the meantime we have tried to put some firm points that at least delimit its use and try to discipline it, not leaving it to an analog application for legal expressions. This is so true that we have introduced, always through the amending activity, the constraint or in any case the limit of the reasons that justify the use, that had not been previously foreseen. The hearing of excerpts of communications, planned even before the Orlando reform, emptied of usefulness and meaning, having introduced us a series of norms - the hearing takes place in contradictory - acquires a centrality that previously did not have. It is obvious - as they say - that you can always do better, but - this is the first time I quote it, I will never do it again - it is also true that the best is an enemy of good. In fact, I am an enemy of this type of quote, but in such a case it has its own reason. The theme was to have more time to acquire copies of communications for defensive purposes. In our system, however, it is provided for, and certainly is so for the prosecutor of the Republic when - for example - it asks for the extension of the interceptions, or when more time is required to justify a measure given the complexity of the activity being carried out. It therefore seemed incredible to me that this was not possible for defences: when there are very complex procedures, it is right and proper that we should have more time. Finally, in the hope that I may be given a few more minutes, I would like to make a comment on the opportunity - President Romeo has spoken a great deal about the question before me - to extend to the offences referred to in Articles 600- bis, 600-ter and 600-quater of the penal code the possibility of intercepting and even using the trojan. According to the rigour normally - and I am only allowed one minute in order to conclude, Mr President - almost all of those conducts which constitute crimes can be intercepted at all. Article 600 -quater deals with the possession of child pornography and it would already be quite difficult to understand what it means to intercept a detention activity, since, among other things, the computer receiver currently allows only to intercept sounds and not images. On the contrary, there is an immediate activity, which already exists today, which is the search and the consequent seizure. Among other things, by intercepting the other most serious crimes, always related to child pornography, of course in case there is a detention, this is also attainable; for this reason, I was amazed at the opposition of those who advocated such an extension to see the use of interceptions in different procedures. It is a very delicate subject, and I do not hide it: I subscribe to the guaranteed culture but, precisely for this reason, I have not been able to understand the reasons for an extension, with reference to a crime that has an edittal penalty however low, without any use, because precisely it can be searched and seized immediately. Then, when we treat such delicate crimes that involve the sensitivity of all of us, we should really make an effort that I understand to be gigantic at this time: to put aside propaganda and look at utility and a system. I should like to conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your kindness: the first question that concerns the culture of guarantees is to have a system perspective. It is true that we have also planned double tracks for very serious crimes, but we must be careful: I think we should be very careful of double and triple binaries. If we begin to introduce exceptions, from a system perspective, it is the earthquake of the culture of guarantees. Since every epoch is crossed by an emergency, a sensitivity and suffering that emotionally involves us, it is exactly what the legislator does not have to do. He must look at this system approach and not be overwhelmed by the issues, without, of course, sacrificing effectiveness. In this case, to be effective we have the equipment: there are kidnapping and search. Of course, nothing forbids us to be able to perfect, but we are certainly not unguarded; on the contrary, we would be risking other garrisons if we did misguided interventions. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u119	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u120	Mr President, this decree-law does not go as far as this House or the previous majority, especially the summa theologica del MoVimento 5 Stelle, had identified with the scrubber, that is, the system that would modify and put an end to the absolute evil in Italy, the fight against corruption. I would think of a quote by Karl Kraus: "The origin is the meta" in the sense that the goal is the realization of an end? No: it is the realization of another beginning, a new beginning that has never begun, because you are still standing there. In this decree-law - I am sorry that the PD does not go out, but rather gets stuck in this current - in practice insert an amendment of the corpus of Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of Rite, effectively comparing offences of different gravity, i.e. those referred to in Article 51, paragraphs 3-a and 3-c, of the Code of Rite, to crimes against public administration. That is to say that the misuse of the photocopier is practically comparable to a crime of mafia, terrorism or criminal association aimed at extortion or exversion of the State. These things have been said by others before me in a much more authoritative and absolutely clear way. It is a fundamental principle of criminal law, i.e. balancing or better - afterward we will enter into the question of the balance of interests and rights that are understood and compressed by interceptions - the principle of criminal offense, which is the basis of our criminal system. So the typicality of a fact must always have to do with its offensiveness and, therefore, with the protection of the legal good that we want to protect and prevent. 20.40 p.m. (Followed by the MAS). And here we come to the question: we have been discussing the effectiveness of the new means of interpretation for a long time. Technology obviously changes the world and also overturns the relationship between man and means. The means define what are the ends, sometimes, of man and in a certain sense this reasoning is transferable to what is happening today with the use of computer pickers, called trojan horse, which are in fact instruments that represent a sort of bulimia investigation, to which there is no brake and there is no limit. This places new and disturbing questions on the interpreter and the legal operator, the judge, the lawyer, the lawyer and the citizen. It poses the problem of the relationship between technology and man, between technology and the inviolable rights of man. It is clear that we must ensure the interest of the State in using all the tools that technology offers to prevent the commission of crimes, but with attention to the balance of constitutional rights referred to in Article 15, which ensures to every citizen the inviolability and security of correspondence and of any form of communication, which can be limited only by act motivated by the judicial authority, in the cases permitted by law. And unfortunately, this law that you do greatly extends the possibility, which therefore becomes infinite, of intercepting anyone and everywhere, even in the bedrooms - as Mr Vitali said before - perhaps with an excess of emphasis, but in substance it is so. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Then the question lies in these terms: under which categories do you want to subsume the new investigative instruments? What legal assets are at stake? What remedies to overcome contrasts? How should the jurist treat the evidence acquired by a picker? And here's a basic problem. Before I talked about bulimic device, because this technological tool allows you to open any device and control its contents, allows you to control the hardware of a device, acquire any information and even enter information. It is clear that I cannot intercept with a trojan, through this state virus, a laptop, because in that case - it is true what Senator Rossomando said first - I can intercept the flow of communication, but I cannot intercept, because I must first arrange the search and then the seizure of the device and then take its contents. If these are principles that you have fortunately not affected, in practice, however, the possibility of abuse is obvious. You have not foreseen, in front of these extraordinary - I say extraordinary - but at the same time dangerous technological instruments, the way to guarantee, beyond the misuse of data, if necessary, to make responsible those who disseminate information that must remain secret, as well as data that must remain secret. On this then I will focus on the words of the Privacy Supervisor. There is a judgment of the Cassation, united sections, dark case, where the nomoprecautionary function was absolutely clear and says that you cannot enter the houses when intercepted. Instead, you have planned to do so because this instrument is a sort of traveling interception that you do not know where it ends: you do not know, and therefore the judge cannot know it a priori. However, nomophilachia has told you that, for the offences referred to in the first paragraph of Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is not permitted. Well, you have extended it, allowing it everywhere, at all times, in all circumstances of time and place, for all the offences of public officials against the public administration and, moreover, those in charge of public service, those who are not even public officials, but are simply in charge of a public service, in the sense that they do not exercise an administrative function: it may also be the tobacconist, in addition to the post office; the examples are infinite in the jurisprudence. Therefore, the invasiveness not only of the trojan but also of the decree-law in question will be evident to all and the fundamental problem is the protection of Article 15 of the Constitution in the matter of the right to confidentiality, secrecy and the recognition of the freedom of communication. In crimes against the public administration you have already paved the way for the pick-up and above all not distinguished between the private home of the suspect and private home of any other person, so anyone and anywhere can be investigated. My view is that this Parliament has missed an opportunity. Perhaps it would have been too much to imagine, but I thought that within this majority there were political forces able to take inspiration from the principles that inform the legal guarantee of our country. At the end of the day, intercepts are the means of searching for evidence, not the means of proof. And then there remains the problem that, if they are means of searching for proof, in the name of guaranteeing you should have established that no form of interception would have entered a dossier of the debate, not even in the discovery of the case; if the prosecutor kept it and remained there, without ending up in any crookedness and, therefore, would never have come out in the newspapers, as happens in other countries more advanced than us from this point of view on the profile of guaranteeing. Go see what America's been doing for years in terms of evidence. We recover what the criminal chambers had said in unsuspecting times: already during the examination of the Orlando reform they had seriously invited you to reconsider the whole system of legislative decree n. 216 of 2017. In conclusion, Mr President, the Data Protection Supervisor warned the legislator, saying that the measure under consideration must have adequate guarantees to prevent, because of the extraordinary intrusive potential, these investigative instruments, from valuable auxiliary of investigators, from becoming massive means of surveillance or (...) factors of exponential multiplication of the vulnerabilities of the summary of evidence. My friends, think about it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u121	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u122	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the decree-law we are debating today is undoubtedly a good text, which speaks in response to the demands of all legal practitioners and takes into account the requests made during the hearings by both judges and lawyers and the press. Some technical passages are corrected; the correct method of archiving the registrations is outlined; the right of defence is better protected. I feel it is my duty to all my fellow senators to retrace some passages in the debate over the last few days, which are difficult to understand not only to those who are outside this House but, in some respects, to ourselves too. The decision of the United Chambers of Cassation made known in January, i.e. after the approval in the Council of Ministers of the decree-law currently under discussion, establishes the legal principle whereby the prohibition of the use of the results of interceptions in procedures other than those for which they have been authorised does not work for the related offences and those which provide for the arrest in flagrante, provided that they fall within the limits of eligibility provided for by law. Of course, this is an interpretative judgment and the very fact that it has become necessary shows that the rules were not clear enough and there were legal disputes, so much so that the united sections were called upon to resolve these conflicts and for this reason we decided and considered it necessary to intervene. The proposal that yesterday blocked the work for a day was not my personal initiative, but the result of a majority agreement on which we worked last Wednesday in the offices of the Ministry of Justice until late at night, in the presence of representatives of all the Groups, including Italy Viva. The aim was to achieve the result of providing for the use of telephone interceptions - be careful, the amendment does not concern the use of the trojan, as some newspapers have written - respecting and clarifying the limits of eligibility, as laid down in the Code of Criminal Procedure and the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation, for offences other than those for which such interceptions had been authorised. The importance of a clarification rule following that judgment had been suggested by many of the auditors, especially magistrates, also because not intervening could put at risk dozens and dozens of ongoing processes, since a legal principle can be used at any stage of the process and cancel the activity of what had been done before. We have complied with the principle of law laid down by the Cassation, so that, if the interceptions reveal evidence of a new crime, it must be subject to the limits of eligibility for interceptions. That was the principle and this we applied. It was an in-depth discussion, a shared text, a crystal clear path until yesterday morning. It was a normal majority dynamic that certainly did not foresee what happened yesterday, causing tensions and delays rightly stigmatized by colleagues of the oppositions, to which I apologise. Ladies and gentlemen, I confess to you that I first struggled to understand the reasons for this tear, especially in the light of the result on which we finally reached a new understanding. The text of the rapporteur, Mr Giarrusso, who has been voted on and the sub-amendment that we have all signed and signed, in fact, does not change anything in substance compared to what was already foreseen in the Grasso amendment (text 2), as reworded on the indication of the majority. Just compare the two texts and have some basic notions of right to understand it: always of article 266, paragraph 1, we speak, that is of crimes for which are provided limits of eligibility and between which are included those for which is previewed the arrest in flaganza. It is, therefore, a pleonastic addition. Finally, as regards the further sub-amendment which adds the adjective'relevant' to the one already present, i.e. 'necessary', it is clear that, if proof is necessary, it will undoubtedly also be relevant. It was therefore a real theater of the absurd that I not only witnessed, but, for obvious reasons and my own spite, even participated in yesterday's day. He wasn't the first, and I'm afraid he won't be the last. The need to raise a fuss regardless of merit is only a good weapon to fill the pages of newspapers and especially television spaces, since for some this seems to be the most important parameter of political action. We will deal with the abuse of our patience with Cicero's calm, as long as it is possible: "Quousque tandem, Catilina, abuse patientia nostra? It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay. The feeling that this House is being used as a trailer for participation in major television broadcasts is not, in fact, pilgrims reading today's newspapers and following the agencies this afternoon and tonight. But this is Parliament's Assembly and, although the third chamber of Porta del Porta is relevant - and I do not dispute this - the democratic institutions in my opinion are more so and demand more respect. I say this especially to those who, instead of being here, have perhaps finished recording the epochal interview forerunner of striking ads. [[Comments of Senator Cucca]] I have presided over this House and I can only condemn manoeuvres which are useful only to show that I can block Parliament's work at will, even more absurd when they come from the majority. By updating Shakespeare, if - as it seems - we are made of the same matter of which the polls are made, the numbers mercilessly indicate that this type of guerrilla is not the way to increase the consensus. I say this as belonging to a component of the Mixed Group that sits comfortably in a selfie. I do not intend to lecture anyone, but out of respect for this House I offer a council: let us be clear once and for all, let us decide whether and how to enable this majority to work to transform into parliamentary acts and government that programme which we have joined in September and which is being deepened in these days at the tables convened by President Conte. As Mario Sechi wrote well this morning in his "List": Nothing happens, but everything is prepared, which could easily end up in nothing. End of quote. Whether it's all or nothing, but as long as it's something definitive and as long as it's soon. We don't have any more time to waste. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and M5S Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u123	He's enlisted to speak Senator D'Alfonso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u124	Mr President, thank you for the opportunity that is also given to me on an occasion of particular rarefied concentration: rarefied is the number and rarefied is also concentration. I put at my disposal a qualified opinion, not because of the value of the person who intervenes, but because of the experiences that have been made, which allow me to enter into the substance and perhaps also to make the difficult possible. We are faced with a piece of legislation which has divided and also presented a dialectical fight both in the Commission and outside. The matter can be summarized as follows: how much is the technology needed to ascertain the truth? We need to have a look on both sides that we need to take care of. There is the part of the citizen, who must be covered in terms of the culture of guarantees. We need a culture of guarantees for the citizen, but also a guarantee for the judicial system when it has to seek proof and give rise to the identification of responsibilities. In these days our country system, the culture of Italy and Europe have mourned the disappearance of a great intellectual, Emanuele Severino, who has not been remembered in this House. Severino has taught us that the civilization of people is put on the field by this couple: from what people have found by gift of creation, because there was already, for example, nature, and what civilization has added from the point of view of science and technology. We need to value science and technology when it comes to ascertaining the truth. Personally, between the human factor and the technological factor, I trust the technological factor more. Technology and science, in fact, guarantee us remote memory. On this I have also allowed myself to make a proposal, signed, for now, by many colleagues in the Democratic Party and which I hope will also concern colleagues in other political formations: to ensure that, in the search for responsibility and, within them, in the search for proof, in the phase of preliminary investigations, there is certainty of what is happening; the certainty, for example, when people - the free, normal citizens, those who take responsibility to provide for the needs of the family and to carry out their project of life - are heard to sum up information: in that case a sort of safari is realized by some expressions of the judicial police. I don't trust human, individual, subjective reconstruction; it takes a storage of remote memory to certify what happens, what is said, what is asked, what is answered. You know that what aims to ascertain the truth is distinguished in a phase called process and in another phase called process. I only trust technology and how many times, if there had been technology, we would have avoided unnecessary miles of judicial papers and years of suffering of absolutely innocent citizens! I personally have had this experience. Once I found myself suffering from the assumption of summary information of a citizen, just because I had accompanied him to Milan to try to facilitate a certain take of economic opportunity, in compliance with the market and the law. That person sold slippers named Fly Flot; a criminal investigation was launched because it was wanted to search if Fly Flot was an airline and wanted to search for the shares of this airline by an unarmed citizen, unable to know shares and shares, simply seller of slippers; all because there was a letter that communicated "Finally you can put wings to all the Abruzzo people." The verification of the truth broke out with the machine guns. That person died of a heart attack, for so much and so was the fear that in fact prevented not only the ascertainment of the truth, but also his life. If there had been an investigation, what I call to consistence of remote memory, one would have seen how the questions were asked, the inductive will so that there would be that and only that answer. I therefore really believe this is a response to the stimulus of the united sections of the Cassation, which has carefully reread Article 270 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, ensuring that the racking of a knowledge resulting from a criminal procedure is made available to the ascertainment of the truth in relation to another criminal procedure, perhaps verifying the consistency of the edittal penalty that is at the base, ensuring that there is verification of the conditions of fundamentality and gravity. But we cannot stop at the stimulus that came to us from the Cassation to united sections and renounce the function of the legislator. In that case, in fact, we have seen a supplementary function, an aid of interpretation of that rule which was dated. But I claim, to be a thirty-year decision-maker, that the life of those who decide, of those who undertake, of those who articulate also vitality is facilitated. It is not possible that everything is entrusted to the spirit of the person. Similarly, I would like to have a debate in this House on the over-sacrificed Article 358 of the Code of Criminal Procedure; it is that article that makes it possible - for example - for the prosecutor to engage in research into evidence in favour of the suspect. What if there's technology in all these moments? If there was something that puts on the table, in detail, exactly what happens at that moment in the life of that decision-maker, bearer of interest, do you not think that you really determine the guarantee for those moments of that delicate life story? These are the reasons which have forced me, even in terms of conscience, to speak, to intervene. Too often it happens that the encounter between the police and the judicial authorities activates a spirit of sporting antagonism, perhaps even with the triangulation of the press. Then have this cognitive certainty, also have the guarantee that what is useless is not dispersed, placed within these perverse mechanisms that then destroy the person and the personality, makes me say that we take a step forward in terms of the culture of guarantees. For these reasons, I believe that Parliament is doing well. I believe that we have also done well to get to the bottom of it, to get to the details, not to treat it as a bureaucratic practice. That is why I personally speak and advance, for the part that concerns me also in terms of conscience, that I feel motivated to support this parliamentary initiative. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u125	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall refer in this speech to Mr Bonafede, although he is absent. I apologise immediately if in some parts of my speech I seem to repeat myself but - you see - I do not repeat myself, it is the Minister who repeats, with his methods and his choices, always the same mistakes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Is he in a hurry? You're doing this out of stubbornness? Do you do this to please someone? Who knows? Fact is, I don't care about your personal motives. I and - I am sure of that - most of the members of this House are not interested in applause and are not interested in being right. Rather, it concerns the protection of the rights of Italian citizens, interests that the country improves, interests that justice functions to give more credibility and freedom to the country. You see, dear Minister, he is not there but perhaps listening to us, I will also have my ideas - of course - maybe simple ideas, but that are enriched by comparison with the ideas of others, with the ideas of associations, colleagues lawyers, magistrates, academics; ideas that are stronger if they become shared. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Minister, you of the government and the majority, won't you listen to them? Why do you want to deprive the country of the contribution of whom every day, for good and evil, lives the classrooms of our courts? Changing opinion is not an indication of weakness, it is a sign of intelligence, courage and honesty; the same honesty he spoke of until a few months ago, until before his definitive transformation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Yes, Minister, you have changed and today reminds me of a character in Greek mythology. Minister Bonafede has become Minister Sisyphus. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , that Sisyphus who spent the days pushing a stone at the cost of hard labours on the top of the mountain and then let it fall downstream and start again, day after day, unnecessarily. He was funny, too. But sympathy is not enough. It's stock. And today, in the Minister's version, Bonafede goes against everyone and everything, to impose wrong laws, that does not want anyone and that, to the test of the facts, prove unsuccessful. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Minister "Sisifo," did we warn you that the retroactivity of the scrubber could never pass the scrutiny of the Consulta? Of course we warned her. But you didn't listen to us. And how did it end? The Consulta has canceled the retroactivity of the norm. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Minister, did we warn you that the abolition of the prescription would be a bomb on trials? Of course we warned her. Again, you did not listen to us, to lawyers, to a large number of magistrates and not even to all the members of your majority, so as to make the government dance and risk mistrust as well. Minister, have you not yet grown tired of seeing the stone rolling down the valley that, stubbornly, is trying to push to the top of the mountain? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] You don't listen to me. You don't even listen to the League. You don't even listen to the lawyers, who, by the way, you had apostrophated as good as good. Listen to the wiretap guy. Above all, listen to the prosecutors of the Republic, Minister. And withdraw, withdraw, this measure. You're still on time. There's still time. It is wrong from the outset, where it is proposed to convert urgent changes to the discipline of interceptions into law. Not the League, not the lawyers, not the companies, but the prosecutors themselves admit that there is no urgency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Why? Because there are no structures. There are no staff and technology available. Minister, it takes time. And this time serves and is necessary for guarantees, not for artifices, and during this period you can also reason and improve a device inspired more by ideological fury than by comparison with reality. Then yes, Minister, this decree raises more than one doubts. Beyond the method and the times, there is also a substantial issue. I'm sorry to deny it, but as there are guilty people who get away with it, there are innocent people who go to jail. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And if we do not guarantee to 200 percent the integrity of the genuineness of the archives and of the transmissions of the data, there will be more and more innocent going to jail; contributions of the data, which the operators themselves have defined and define difficult. I have no doubt, Minister and my fellow Members, that we know the story of Angelo Massaro. Mr. Massaro spent twenty-one years in prison as an innocent; twenty-one years after being convicted of murder and concealment of a corpse. And you know why? It's the fault of a mistranscribed wiretap. "I'm carrying nu muers," Massaro had told his wife on the phone. This means: "this damn thing", "this weight", in Apulian dialect. I'm carrying a dead man. Someone else figured it out. And that's why Massaro had to wait for the trial review to be cleared. It was a bobcat he was carrying, not a dead man. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this reform, practically the whole country is set under the goal of the great digital brother. What guarantees do citizens have? What security do Italian citizens have that nu muers still do not become a dead man? What certainty do citizens have in the Deepfake era that the same systems are ready and can be guaranteed for everyone? None. No guarantees, Minister. That's why I ask all of you to stop; if you don't want to, don't listen to the League, don't listen to the lawyers and companies in the sector that have been audited; don't even listen to the prosecutors. Listen to the voice of Sisyphus who on the top of the mountain shouts to stop the fall of the stone, which sweeps away not the corrupt, but the guarantees of the Italians. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u127	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, while the President of the Justice Commission continues to give the rightful congratulations for his speech, I believe that one thing should be mentioned at the outset: the words'reform of justice','speed of the trial' and'reform of the criminal process' belong to a terminology that we find in speeches and propaganda. Then, in fact, when the topic was discussed, the subject of interceptions was deepened for a little bit and it was done in the way that we have seen in these days: in a convulsive way, with endless meetings on parts that in the end are not even determining the whole measure. This means - in my opinion - that justice does not have that real attention it should have in the program and in the activity of the government. I would, however, like to focus on the people who will suffer the consequences of legislation which I consider to be decidedly staggered, because it must at least remain a trace of it in the work of this House. The decree-law to our examination extends a series of possibilities of technological interception to those who exercise a public service. We are talking about car tax collectors, janitors, posters, pharmacists, military chaplains, civil servants. All these people may be subject to the computer picker; not the white collar, but these people, who may have something in the phone that makes the screenshots of the chats every three minutes, which recovers photos, files, conversations, recovers and makes videos. MIRABELLI (PD). But where is it written? I don't know if you've read the text... MODENA (FIBP-UDC). It then recovers everything inside the phone. The citizens must know this because, when the magistrates themselves tell us that it is a highly invasive instrument and the prosecutors are not yet equipped for data management, we must realize that it is necessary to explain out of here that it is not only a problem of Cassation, interpretation, the fight against the mafia, or delinquency in general: here we enter another world and enter it by decree-law. We are then in a context in which - as the leader of the Justice Commission, Senator Caliendo, rightly pointed out - the defences and the protection of guarantees do not exist, because much better work could have been done on the concept of the excerpted hearing, namely a hearing in which a judge and the parties decide what is usable and what is not. And, above all, we do not understand that we are going to create justice for the rich. When there are few days when an attorney can listen to and verify everything that records a computer receiver, it means that only those who have the money to pay for an equipped study can defend themselves; those who do not have a lira can safely forget the right to defend or control transcriptions, as Senator Ostellari rightly pointed out earlier. Therefore, the measure under consideration does not give a response of justice and puts in crisis the prosecutors - as the magistrates themselves have said and I believe that the CPMP also said in its opinion - so that an extension is nothing extraordinary. It is invasive against not so-called white collars, who never go to jail, but ordinary people - I remember, for example, janitors - and does not give an answer to the need for equal justice for all and justice accessible to all, but only guarantees those who can afford it. 21.22 (Modena follow). Epic battles are being waged here, because only the rich - for example - can avoid trials through prescription. I'm sorry, so what do you do with this stuff? It allows only those who have the money to defend themselves from such invasive instruments. Then there is the problem of data collection. All the material ends up in the digital rooms, which are called clouds. The prosecutors have also made it clear and clear that actual interceptions are never destroyed and the principle for which they are destroyed is disregarded. We do not know what can happen and it is a concern not only of ours, but first of all of the judiciary and prosecutors, who are responsible for this data. Can the two-month extension solve this kind of problem? No, it's a hot diaper. It would certainly have been necessary to pay attention to the amendments tabled, and in this regard I would like to mention only one of them, which has been rejected, which provided, as far as time is concerned, for at least the possibility of having implementing decrees by the Ministry. Colleagues, you will go to approve a decree-law that provides, after all, a series of implementing decrees, for which there is not even a deadline, and this will certainly create problems for lawyers, prosecutors, defendants and the system of justice, which clearly does not have the necessary means and premises and the computer tools to cope with this type of "innovation." The government could at least have put a hand on the conscience, at least by planning to implement first the implementing decrees, rather than making a two-month extension, at zero cost. There is a two-month extension, but it is not clear what money and what structures we can put the judicial offices in a position to operate. In conclusion, I would like to say two things. Greater attention has been requested. The affair of the piecemeal provision has already been mentioned so I am not going back, but when the opposition forcefully says some things it does not always and only instrumentally. It does this because the facts happen, and the most irrelevant fact - in my opinion - is that we do not have to deal with justice here - and we are doing it - because there are problems, the ad personam laws, because there is Berlusconi in the government, or I know that. No: justice is a serious problem in this country; the way you are dealing with it now shows that it has always been instrumental to believe that Forza Italia had its own specific problem, so justice seemed to be tied exclusively to the events of some political characters. In fact, justice is and remains a problem, which is being tackled and solved - even here - badly. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] So, the screen that raises itself by saying that today we are dealing with justice because first we were talking about it just because there was Berlusconi's problem is a falsehood. We must take care of justice, but not in the way the government proposes it to us today, let alone the majority forces. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u129	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u130	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are discussing the conversion of Decree-Law No 161 of 2019, which intervenes in the matter of interceptions and changes significantly, improving it, the content of the Orlando reform referred to in Legislative Decree No 216 of 2017. On the one hand, there is the need to effectively prosecute serious crimes, which cause social alarm and disturb civil and democratic coexistence; on the other hand, there is the need for citizens to know the content of judicial acts or interceptions that are relevant to political, economic and public life in the broadest sense and to the good repute of those who have important positions in the organization of the State. Finally, there is the right to privacy, the right not to be exposed and subjected to media grievances for facts not relevant from the criminal point of view or even belonging exclusively to the private sphere of the citizen subject to investigation and interceptions. In a nutshell, the state must be able to prosecute those who suffer serious crimes, but maintaining all the constitutional guarantees, and at the same time there must be no gag at free information and, finally, there must be no media deception - as I said - in order to do so. In these years the legislator has tried to contemper these needs - not always succeeding, for the truth - but the decree-law that we are converting into law has precisely the objective and the ambition to arrive at a balance of the different requirements that I have just mentioned, as well as that to improve and rationalize the execution of the activities of interception, to protect even better the possibilities of defence of the citizen and to safeguard its privacy, without thereby affecting the general need for justice and the possibility to carry out investigations and to acquire useful news for the contrast to categories of crimes that arouse great social alarm. Before going very quickly to examine the salient features of the measure, I would like to make a point about a matter, which came up a few minutes ago, about child pornography. Given the delicacy of the theme, I will do so with the most appropriate and low tones possible. I would just like to say that there is no distraction on the part of this majority on the subject, because already today for the offences referred to in Articles 600- bis (child prostitution) and 600-b of the penal code (production of child pornography and recruitment and induction of minors) it is possible to use the interceptions because the penalty is more than six years old. If we want, as legislators, to make the penalties for this kind of crime even harder, we of Movimento 5 Stars are absolutely available, and so let's do it as well. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] PILON (L-SP-PSd'Az). You should have voted on our amendment! PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). That being said, this measure first moves the deadline for the entry into force of Legislative Decree No 216 of 2017 to 1 March 2020 and, by virtue of this extension, will apply only for the criminal proceedings registered from that date. This postponement has allowed and will allow to complete the necessary organizational and operational measures, to better prepare the computer equipment to be used and also to raise the level of security of all this new architecture as much as possible. Now, given the need to speed up my speech, I would skip a whole part of it, asking the Presidency to allow it to be left to the record. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency authorizes it to do so. PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). However, I would like to talk about an issue that has been much debated in recent days, and indeed in the last few hours, namely the possibility that interceptions may be used in different proceedings and for offences other than those for which they had been initially arranged, provided that they are relevant and indispensable for the detection of offences for which the arrest is provided in flagrant and for the crimes referred to in the first paragraph of Article 266 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, namely for serious offences. We are not talking about candy or a janitor, but about non-polluting crimes, for which the sentence of life imprisonment or imprisonment is expected to be greater than five years; or crimes against the public administration for which the penalty of imprisonment is not lower than five years; crimes involving narcotics and psychotropic substances; crimes involving weapons and explosive substances; smuggling crimes and so on. I don't read them all, but we understand each other. We are therefore talking about serious crimes, which create social alarm. This possibility of use - in our opinion - is a norm of pure common sense, because it simplifies the procedures, optimizes the work of the judicial offices, does not impose duplication of acts and also produces a saving of time and human and economic resources and above all does not disperse - this is the most important thing - relevant news to ascertain and prosecute serious crimes. Having said that, I am still jumping a part of the intervention that I had prepared, because the hour is late, and I conclude: this regulatory intervention is based on the pillars of the need for justice and the use of interceptions in the fight against crimes that - as I said before - raise particular social alarm. It is also based on the pillars of privacy and privacy protection, encouraging digitalisation of the intercepting machine and regulating access and security arrangements. In this latter regard, the definition of the technical requirements of the so-called Trojans, which will obviously have to be characterized by safety, inviolability and reliability, is then delegated to a decree of the Ministry of Justice. We at Movimento 5 Stars are confident with this measure that we have made a significant contribution to the balance between the demands of justice and the demands of guarantee and citizens' rights and, on the other hand, that we have streamlined and rationalised procedures. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u131	The general debate is closed. He asked the government representative to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) (b) of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u133	Please, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u134	Mr D'INCA, Minister for Relations with Parliament. The Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to article 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Rules of the Senate, the text of the amendment entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question [[Comments and ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which fully transposes the amending proposals approved by the Commission, on which, subject to the consent of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u135	The Presidency notes that the amendment fully incorporates the amendments approved by the Commission. In accordance with practice, I transmit the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission, because, in accordance with Article 81 of the Constitution and in accordance with the constitutional prerogatives of the Government, I inform the Assembly about the financial coverage profiles.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u136	On behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the approval of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of bill No 1659 of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 161 of 30 December 2019.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u137	I call on the Conference of Presidents of Parliament's Groups to organise the debate on the issue of trust. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 21.36 and resumed at 20.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u138	The Conference of Leaders organised the discussion on the question of confidence on the amendment entirely replacing the decree-law interceptions. The discussion, for which an hour has been allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups, will take place from 9.30 a.m. tomorrow. The final explanations of vote will follow and he calls it, orientally around 12 o'clock. The 5th Permanent Commission is now authorised to meet to examine the text of the Government's amendment. The agenda for tomorrow's session also provides for the discussion from the drawing-up of the bill on the transfer of state property in the Municipality of Chioggia, already approved by the Senate and modified by the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, at 3 p.m., the question time is confirmed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u139	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-19-LEG18-Senato-sed-193.ana.u140	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday, February 20, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.03.
