ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1664. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report, a preliminary question was rejected, the general discussion took place, and the rapporteur and the representative of the Government refused to speak in the reply. Since the opinion of the 5th standing Commission has not yet been received on the amendments adopted by the 7th I suspend the sitting until 10.15 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.38 a.m. and resumed at 10.17 a.m.) I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u5	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendments Nos 1,10000/100, 1,10000 and 1,100. I call for the remaining amendments to be withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u6	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u7	Amendment 1.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 110000/100, tabled by Senators Sbrollini and Pharaoh. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 110000/101, 110000/102 and 2.1 are therefore incorporated. Amendment 110000/103 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 110000, tabled by the Commission, in the amended text. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 3.2 and 5.1 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 1,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to express their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u8	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 2.2 and would like to withdraw Amendment 2.4. I would also urge you to withdraw Amendment No 2.5 and turn it into an agenda. I am in favour of amendments 2.6 (correct text), 2.101, 2.100 and 2.8. I call on you to withdraw amendment 2.12, otherwise the opinion is against it. I am in favour of amendment 2.13 (text 2). I give a favourable opinion on agendas G2.7 and G2.9 if the following rewording of the device is accepted: • commit the Government to assess the possibility of • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • I am in favour of the G2.100 agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u9	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u10	Senator Sbrollini, do you accept the call to withdraw Amendment 2.4? SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does Senator Sbrollini also accept the invitation to withdraw amendment 2.5 and to turn it into an agenda? SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Sbrollini, do you accept the invitation to withdraw Amendment 2.12? SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I welcome the invitation and withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Amendment 2.1 was absorbed by the adoption of amendment 110000/100. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.2 (text 2), tabled by Senators Sbrollini and Pharaoh. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.3 and 2.4 have been withdrawn. Amendment 2.5 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.5 which, having been accepted by the Government, will not be put to the vote. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.6 (correct text), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.7 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.7. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.101, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 2.100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.8, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.9 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.9. Amendments 2.10 and 2.11 have been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.7. Amendment 2.12 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.13 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Having been accepted by the Government, the agendas of the G2.7 (text 2), G2.9 (text 2) and G 2,100 will not be put to the vote. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u11	Mr President, I call on you to withdraw Amendments 3.3 and 3.0.300 (text 3)/100, otherwise the opinion is against, while you are in favour of Amendments 3.0.100 (text 2), 3.0.100 (text 2), 3.0.200 (text 3) and 3.0.300 (text 3).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u12	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u13	I call on Senator Pesco, President of the 5th Commission, to express his opinion on Amendment 3.0.100 (text 2)/1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u14	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u15	Amendment 3.1 has been withdrawn and changed to agenda G2.7. Amendment 3.2 was precluded by the adoption of amendment 110000. In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, Amendment 3.3 is impervious. Senator Sbrollini, are you going to insist on the vote? SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). No, Mr President, I shall withdraw it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.100 (text 2/1), tabled by Senators Sbrollini and Pharaoh. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0.100 (text 2), in the amended text, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.0.200 (text 3)/100 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0,200 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). In view of the contrary opinion expressed by the 5th Commission pursuant to Article 81 of the Constitution, amendment 3.0.300 (text 3)/100 is impervious. I would ask Senator Giro whether he will insist on the vote or accept the rapporteur's invitation to withdraw Amendment 3.0,300 (text 3)/100.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u18	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I support and insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u19	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 3.0.300 (text 3)/100, tabled by Senators Giro and Malan. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.0,300 (text 3), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments to Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u20	Mr President, I would like to withdraw Amendment 4.1, otherwise I am against it. The opinion is in favour of Amendments 4,100 and 4,101 (correct text).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u21	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u22	Let us move on to Amendment 4.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). We are asking for the vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 4.1, tabled by Senator Moles and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 4,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 4101 (correct text), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We now come to the examination of the amendments to Article 5 of the Decree-Law, which are described and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u23	Mr President, I am in favour of Amendment 5,100.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u24	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u25	Amendment 5.1 is precluded by the adoption of amendment 110000. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 5,100, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u28	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we will vote strongly in favour of the conversion of this decree-law and we hope that the establishment of two separate ministries (education and university and research) will become a structural element. In the past we have seen a continuous division and then reunite and this has obviously not been positive for the central themes that contribute to the development of our country, such as university, research and high artistic and musical formation, which represent a great investment of Italy. 10.31 a.m. (De PETRIS follow-up). Today we intervene with the measure under consideration and with it the Government commits itself - and we will be very careful - on two substantive issues: to put in place all the necessary resources for the entire system of research and education and to accelerate and adopt structural interventions in the medium and long term in order to restore centrality, balance and dignity to the whole sector. Therefore, we cannot think of exhausting today, with this measure, the commitment - both as a majority and as a government - in school, in university and in research. We will also be very careful in urging and helping to find the appropriate resources in the budget law. This government - and we must say this forcefully - is heading in the right direction, as has also been shown by the last budget law and the so-called thousand-pronged decree. I would like to provide some data: the University's ordinary funding fund has been increased by EUR 96.5 million for 2021 and by EUR 111 million since 2022. In the same way, the staff of the teaching staff referred to in Article 1, paragraph 64, has been increased with reference to secondary school of second degree, and this measure has obviously involved a commitment of considerable expenditure. In addition, all the increases made under the budget law have been aimed at improving the qualification of school services, reducing the overcrowding of classes and promoting the inclusion of pupils and pupils with serious disabilities. Equally positive is the authorisation to transform, from 2020-2021, the full-time working relationships of 553 between administrative assistants, technical assistants, former co-ordinated and continuous employees recruited part-time in the school year 2018-2019. This also guarantees an increase in ATA staff which, in recent years, has been vexed and neglected. As we have been saying for a long time, the themes of education, university and research are strategic not only because they concern 10 million students and their families, as well as 1.2 million workers and washing machines, but also and above all because they concern the economic, social and cultural paradigms with which the future of the country is built. For this reason - in our opinion - they are a high priority, even more so for a country like ours that was already in a difficult situation before the great financial crisis and today struggles to recover. There is a fact that seems irrefutable and gives an idea of how we should act. Italy appears to be one of the European states that invests less in education than its own economy. According to the "Education at a Glance" report of 2019, our country invests 3.6 percent of GDP in education against an average of 5 percent of OECD countries. In comparisons concerning the average expenditure per pupil, the salaries of the teachers and the right to study, everything that is referred to our country brings, unfortunately, the less sign. We therefore have a great task ahead of us and these are the first steps to recover the great gap. So there is a welcome increase in the ordinary funds of universities and research institutions, but now it is necessary to build a national system of the right to study that hinders the emigration of brains rather than feeding it as it does the current one. It is essential in our opinion to abolish the number closed and scheduled for registration at universities (among other things I have already filed a bill on this matter), to initiate an extraordinary plan of researchers, to put more resources to cover the no tax area, which otherwise becomes a sword of Damocles for universities, to make a regulatory reorder of the Afam sector, or, to avoid that every year the opening of the school year turns into a roulette, to make finally stable all the places that the school needs to work. We must be clear that if we do not make a massive investment in the entire field of education, high training, university and research, our country will never be able to compete at the highest levels in the international scenario. This is a strategic issue for our country. I believe that in these times we absolutely cannot ignore this and then we cannot regularly forget it, perhaps when we make the budget law. This question, together with the question of staffing and the stabilization and increase of all university researchers, is central to this process and is the precondition for a quality teaching. I would also like to point out that the decree-law in our examination solves some long-standing issues, which we have been dragging on for a long time, on the case of Afam, where, for a long time now, we find a problem of very strong precariousness. We note the rapporteur that, thanks to her amendment, certain issues have been resolved, certainly taking an important first step. I am referring to the extension of the regulation decree and the reopening of the national rankings which, among other things, we had also presented in the so-called thousandprorogations to the House. Unfortunately it was left out the academic year recognition for those who took service after February 1 on vacant chair. We believe that this is an issue that must be resolved absolutely in order to prevent many of the teachers - certainly not because of them - from seeing the reconstruction of the career that would be removed by a year. However, a lot of progress has been made and, although not all the problems have been solved, they have begun to be dealt with. I also remember that some students were very penalized for these reasons: many precarious, contest winners and included in the national rankings waiting to be put in place, they had found themselves in front of the ravine of the total revision of the Afam system. In the meantime, however, appointments had started indefinitely and determined through the delegation of the new Minister (which I would like to thank for understanding the issue, which was very problematic). I repeat, therefore, that the amendment that has been adopted has partly solved the existing problems, while other issues have remained outside. As I come to the conclusion, I think that we have long, even in this House, indicated how to intervene in order to improve the areas of knowledge, expanding the training offer (from school time) by stabilising the precarious and cyclical recruitment based on the centrality of the training paths, but we need a real investment on the many professionalisms of the sectors, looking carefully at each and progressively adjusting the salaries to the European average; this is another commitment that seems impossible, but that we have to assume because we can no longer continue to have the average salaries of our teachers far below the European average. It is also a commitment that we must progressively commit ourselves to. Now, however, we expect the new Ministers to guarantee these commitments and also give substance to the announcements that have been made. Two Dicasteries therefore that will require to be fully functioning a series of acts following the decree-law, but also much commitment from all. I repeat: we hope that this will finally become the strategic sector on which to invest as a country system because not only our prestige is at stake but also the possibility of a better future, not only for students, but for the whole country system. [[Applause from the Misto-Leu Group and Senator Rampi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u31	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in yesterday's general debate many of us reiterated the importance of the measure. With the vote on today's amendments, I confirm our commitment and our cooperation in working, and we hope with the minority not only as a majority, so that the measure can be implemented very quickly. Even yesterday we wanted to emphasize it, for us now the theme is precisely this: to do well and do quickly because we are already close to the new school year and we need to give certainties to the world of school. It has been recalled both by my colleague De Petris now and yesterday in the general discussion in my speech as we need to give stability to this strategic and priority sector of our country. We are in favour of the so-called reordering and unbundling of the Ministries. We think like Italy Viva-PSI that there is the need to have a Ministry of the university ad hoc, with a precise financial investment and adequate personnel for the world of university and research. In the same way, we need stability for the Ministry of Education because - I want to reiterate this and remember it today in the explanation of vote - the theme of school dispersal is great and, once again, splits Italy into two geographical areas (on the one hand the rich areas and, on the other, the poor and poor areas of our country). There is a need for an investment not only for the future but also strategic for what a few weeks ago we still called school-work alternation and that today we identify in an open and constant dialogue between two worlds that need to be talked about. In fact, the whole training system needs stability. We know that in recent years there has been unification and then a division of the two ministries, and we know that in recent years there have been too many ministers, especially over the last five years, who have not given stability to the whole area of education and training. Today, we consider the measure to be very positive because it is aimed at giving priority to investment in the world of knowledge, knowledge, research, innovation and technology. The measure adapts the training of the entire teaching staff, making it permanent. Let's restart the competitions and finally talk about school in a modern way; we know that not only are there too many differences for the complex and difficult social crisis in place but also that this sector really needs a strong renewal in terms of training. We need to resume this place of knowledge and personality formation of boys and girls trying to reduce the strong gap that still remains, for example in scientific subjects, between girls and boys. We also need - and to this end the State and the Government must intervene - not to lose, especially during school years, any boy or girl. We know instead that the data are alarming: many children (about 600,000) leave school even before the end of compulsory school and we still have few graduates compared to the European average; therefore we need an investment that is not only financial but also on teaching staff, so that it is adequate. This morning, with the support of the Government, several amendments proposed by the Italia Viva-PSI Group related to various issues that push in the direction of uniforming Italy and therefore to guarantee uniform levels of performance in our country and to invest in educational services since the nest and the kindergarten, because already in the first years of life we know that it is important to invest in our children and our children. We also need to support the quality of education and school service, especially in the most disadvantaged areas, where there will be a need to invest because we are talking about services. There are some areas of our country, in fact, in which these services are completely absent or are lacking in respect to the needs of some Regions. There is also a need to address the issue of the training of school leaders. Yesterday I also focused on the need for adequate wages because we know that this is a great issue which is clearly not resolved by the measure we are examining but on which we certainly pay attention. It is also necessary to address the issue of how to obtain financial resources from the European Union. Italy must also make a qualitative leap on this, because we could certainly receive a lot of additional resources if there was a need to invest more than we do today. We also consider it important to have an overall framework for the evaluation of the training system in its entirety. I am referring in particular to high schools of technical training. I repeat the importance of strategic investment in this area too if we want to link our companies, our business system with the world of school. Finally, there is a need for recognition of qualifications and certifications at European level. These are some of the absolutely priority and strategic elements contained in the measure before us. I conclude by saying that we will monitor closely and also in very short time the procedure of the measure so that it is applied immediately to give certainty to the start of the new school year in September. However, I repeat the need to give stability to the sector, so the guidelines that have been expressed in recent weeks both by Minister Azzolina and Minister Manfredi must find concreteness and above all uniformity if we want to restart our country not only from the economic point of view but also of knowledge. On the draft law to our examination we obviously express a positive and favourable opinion as Gruppo Italia Viva-PSI [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u34	IANNONE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Brothers of Italy will vote against this measure and will do so for exquisitely political reasons, as well as for merit. The conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 1 of 9 January 2020 is the "floss" of the Christmas gift that Minister Fioramonti has left to the majority: from a Ministry they make two to rebalance internal relations with the majority between the Movimento 5 Stars and the Democratic Party: in twenty months we have seen passed to the MIUR four Ministers. Compared to the propaganda of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians - a reduction on which Brothers of Italy voted in favour and I point out that none of our senators signed to call for the constitutional referendum, in which we will confirm our orientation - the majority, in particular the 5 Star Movement, contradicts itself, increasing the number of Ministries after years with an automatic increase in public spending. The internal pulling of the majority is evident and it will not be enough an additional chair to satisfy this atavistic hunger. We have also seen in the Commission fifteen days of work which have dragged on in a very confusing way, with amendments which paradoxically come from almost all the majority. As far as the merits are concerned, we believe that it is an error of political vision to unpack the MIUR, thus going back ten years. We are wondering why this split into a strategic decision is taking place in this debate when this was clearly not considered in the course of previous government experiences. I ask myself and ask you, was Count I another person? Count II, first of all, was he another President of the Council? Evidently, these questions of mine are rhetorical. If you want to resort to the urgent decree, gentlemen of the government, do it for the real problems that the world of school, university and research lives. Don't think about the problems of your politics, but about the problems of the stabilization of the precariousness of the Italian school, which has endured and holds its fate for many years. Think of giving authority back to our teaching staff and recognizing salaries that are more appropriate to the noble role of educators they perform. We think of ensuring continuity of education for disabled pupils because we are faced with a real social emergency as well as an unacceptable injustice because it is perpetrated directly by the State. There is also the need to ensure safety at educational sites: I always repeat - and I will do so again - we have many institutions which have serious problems of staticity, especially after the destruction of the Provinces, which thought of ensuring the level of upper secondary education. Then there is the need to fight, not to chat but with the facts, the brain drain and stabilize our precarious researchers. Yesterday it was said that important scientific discoveries, even at this time of concern, were made by precarious researchers. It is a victory of the citizen and the individual, but it is a defeat of the state, if excellent people are not yet stabilised. We must also combat the problem that was mentioned earlier by Senator Sbrollini of school dispersal, which unfortunately earns our nation the last places in European indicators. These are the real issues, in our opinion, on which we must work, intervene and invest resources, as the former Minister Fioramonti denounced when he resigned. Therefore, we invite you to tune in to the real country, which we do not think is happening at all. For this reason you will never be able to win the favorable vote of a patriotic force such as that of Brothers of Italy. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u37	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, Mr Undersecretaries, ladies and gentlemen, this is one of those passages that I do not want to call epochal. In a normal country there would be a serene and calm discussion to assess whether it is better, as in certain moments of recent republican history, to promote integration between the two Ministries to make better work the activities that are put in common, or, as in other moments of republican history, to divide forces and not work together, to make available more intelligences and make better functioning two Ministries that are crucial for the country. In politics it is right to divide; perhaps not to be enemies and not to wage war, but to divide when we have different solutions. But this is one of those issues that should frankly not divide a country, but unite. What do we have in this provision? We have seen it and are clear figures: we have an increase in staff resources and we have an increase in intelligence that will be devoted to both strategy. We should all share this and then discuss in this House how best to use these intelligences and resources. We in the Democratic Party believe that the fundamental strategy for this country is to invest in school, education and research, because the great virus, the great evil of this country, is the cultural emergency. We're a country that doesn't have the tools to intervene in an emergency today. It doesn't have the tools in people's heads. We are a country that, faced with a drama like what we are experiencing, must thank - many have done so - the many researchers and the many scientists who have dedicated their intelligence to us. But the question we ask ourselves is: are we building conditions because in ten, fifteen or twenty years' time those intelligences and skills are still there? Are we going to encourage them and increase them or are we going to reduce them? This is one of the problems we have objectively before us, and that is the reason for this choice: we have invested in competent people and we have decided to have more energy and resources in this field. You see, the difference between today's crafts and yesterday's crafts is that today we are preparing students (let's think about our children starting elementary schools) and we are not able to know - but that's right and we don't see it as a negative element - what the jobs they will do when they grow up. We must be able to prepare people to face something that is unknown to us today. We must educate the unknown. This is the big bet of modern societies. In the face of this type of education, we must completely rethink the school system, starting with that of education, which will be dealt with tomorrow by the Ministry of Education, that is, primary education. We must ensure that boys and girls in schools are educated to learn; that each of them is given the best of their specific characteristics; that there is a different school for every child and every child. This is a complete change in the pedagogical paradigm, which does not begin today, but started several years ago. If we want, it's Don Milani's basic thought in that beautiful letter to a teacher. But it is something that we still have to realize; that today in our classes there is not or is too little; that it has been strengthened by autonomy, but that has not yet been achieved and that depends, again and too much - and it is a positive fact but also a negative one - on the individual skills of those teachers and teachers, those masters of those teachers, those professors who decide to put themselves into play. Having a Ministry dedicated only to them then means to be stronger in this sense. Then we have to prepare for higher education and we have to make sure that our universities are also different, that all too often they are only the place where you measure if there is or is not a knowledge. The girls and boys entering the university go to an examination and they are verified a knowledge. But what is the moment of the transmission of this knowledge? And what is the moment of the collective construction of this knowledge? Because the university cannot be an individual fact and in many faculties it is, it is more and more, and this is a problem. If we have to rethink our school and our university, if we have to rethink them because they are the democratic principals, the foundations of civil society, the conditions to be together in a democracy and the conditions also of economic development and to face all the emergencies of the country (including what we are going through in these days and weeks and that we will be going through in these months), if we are faced with such a great challenge, we can only be benefited by having two dedicated structures. It struck me, I say frankly, that someone in the face of this challenge says that there is a problem of cuts, that there is a problem of the costs of the structures. This reminds us in fact of a past, not so far away and dramatic, in which, as I also supported as a student, the drama was not the policies of the wrong education; the drama was that the politics of education made it by the Ministry of Economics and that it was done with an accounting approach: it went to see where in the budget of the State there were full-bodied assets to cut and cut them. That season of the country is not the only cause of the problems we have, but it has contributed significantly, in a world that has become increasingly complex, to worsen the condition of Italy compared to other countries. We recently voted on a reading measure. Our data is not the same as other European countries; there is an overall problem, but our data is not the same. In school and university one learns to have a relationship with knowledge, with all knowledge, not only the logical one, not only the cognitive one, but also the artistic one, which is fundamental in the preparation of people. For all these reasons, without triumphalism, without saying that with the vote we will take in a few minutes we will have solved all the problems (absolutely not: on the contrary, it will only be the beginning of a path), but we are convinced that we are effectively identifying a priority (because this majority, this coalition of government, has decided that this is a priority for the country) and we are building the conditions to do this piece of work. Can we share this strategy for the country together? Can we divide on the content but not on what the structural priorities are, whether or not we need four wheels to make the car work better and then everyone decides where they want to drive it? This in my opinion is what would be required of a ruling class in a fundamental moment of passage for a country, which has to face so many dramas and problems but which is able to do so if you give it the tools to do so. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator De Petris.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u40	SAPONARA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, representatives of the Government, my fellow senators, with today's vote we are going to establish the division of the Ministry of Education from that of university and research. It might seem a politically sensible choice, because school policies are different from university policies. In fact, the two Dicasteries will require, in order to be fully functional, a series of acts following the decree-law both for the reconnaissance of the staff and for the real reorganization, as well as a further expenditure for the budget. Although the government believes it can resolve the situation quickly, it will be inevitable that the administrative machinery will be blocked for months. It is a paralysis that is not pessimistic to estimate will last for a few months and in the meantime there are deadlines and commitments, which the neo-Ministers will have to honour. A situation, in short, characterized by chaos, which is not exactly what the sector needs. In fact, there are many other needs of the sector. Research has a spasmodic need for economic resources and this is before everyone's eyes. It is these days the story of the professional success of Spallanzani's researcher, who isolated the coronavirus, thus opening the doors to studies to find a vaccine. Of course, it has filled us with pride to think that an Italian researcher was the creator of this success, a scholar, who has been precarious for years, with a salary certainly not commensurate with his professional value. On the contrary, the Government directs resources towards the creation of the National Agency for Research, at Palazzo Chigi, an entity that will in fact leave the perimeter of the university, with heavy consequences on the freedom of research. As regards the right to study, another urgency is the so-called eligible non-beneficiaries. In order to obtain a university scholarship, which can range from about 2,000 to 5,000 euros, you need income and merit requirements, different from Region to Region. The problem is that Italy is the only OECD country in which you can be entitled to a scholarship without ever having it paid for lack of resources. Thus the eligible ones are seen to zero university fees, but they cannot access the other benefits, such as the right to accommodation. The difficulties that our researchers face compared to their foreign colleagues lead to the phenomenon of the brain drain abroad, which is taking on the contours of a real emergency for the country. Just to give a few numbers, in 2018 the total volume of cancellations abroad was 157,000 units, an increase of 1.2 percent compared to that recorded in 2017. The migrations specifically affecting Italian citizens are 74 percent of the total (116,732 units). If you consider the number of returns (personal registrations from abroad of Italian citizens) of 46,824, the balance is definitely negative, with 69,908 units less. The majority, that is, 73 percent of our fellow citizens who have left the country, is over 25: in practice they are young people, who have trained in Italy, with the relative costs for the system, but who no longer contribute to the wealth of our country and we must congratulate ourselves on this. These are the main nodes, which will have to dissolve the new Minister of University and Research, Gaetano Manfredi. No less challenging, however, are the dossiers on the table of the new Minister of Education Azzolina, such as that of competitions for new technical leaders and teachers of Catholic religion (for the latter the first and only competition was held fifteen years ago, although the Minister said that for now it is not on the agenda). In addition, ordinary competitions will have to be held for children, secondary primary, for 48,000 total places and extraordinary competitions for first and second grade secondary schools. In the world of school, moreover, there is much expectation of a safety regulation that teachers, but also students and associations, have long considered insufficient for the specific characteristics of educational realities. The way in which new resources are used for the safety of school buildings will also have to be established. It also needs a national implementation plan for the digital school, considered a fundamental pillar of the reform the good school, launched by the Renzi Government in 2015. Thus, structural problems are obvious, not excluding the training of the teaching staff, from the advanced middle age. Finally, the repeated request by teachers to adjust salaries to the average of the countries of the European Union remains awaiting a solution. Without wanting to be at all cost catastrophic, I believe that this situation requires a considerable commitment from the neo-Ministers, but any initiative of theirs will come up against the chronic lack of resources, that the measure under consideration further impoverishes them from the important objectives that I have tried to outline and that have already been highlighted during the examination of the preliminary question that the Group presented yesterday. In short, if we want to sum up, the measure under discussion is a measure that responds Prodi and contradicts Monti, continuing, in spite of the containment of expenditure, to multiply ministries and agencies as if they were loaves to feed, but without feeding those who really need to be, that is, school and research, who thus remain awaiting solutions. I think that these are all sufficient and valid reasons for the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group to vote against the conversion into law of the decree-law under consideration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u43	MOLES (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, there are many reasons why we are totally opposed to the decree-law in question and therefore to the bill by which it is intended to be converted into law. First of all, there is a question of consistency with the positions supported to date by our political force, which in the past was with the Government together with the coalition of center-right. In addition, if it is clear to everyone that the main reason for this decree-law is to assign two armchairs to two political forces that contended with one of them, the damage is added to the mockery, because with the distribution of the structures and offices between the Ministry of University and Research and the Ministry of Education it is decided to make changes in expenditure necessary for the adjustment of the budget of estimates of the State to the new structure of the Government and - with the final and transitional provisions - of the offices of direct collaboration of the Ministers. The measure redesigns skills in certain sectors and departments and provides for transfers of personnel and competences from one Department to another, with new increases in public finance, that is, citizens and we talk about millions of euros. In addition, due to the division of competences, the number of units of general management level increased from 28 to 30. The staff of the offices of direct collaboration increases, being established in 130 units for the Ministry of Education and in 60 units for the Ministry of University and Research. In addition to this quota, the ministers holding the Dicastery may immediately appoint those responsible for the offices of direct cooperation. The problem is that the decree-law in question repeals the 13 Ministeri limit, allowing for possible future multiplications of the Ministries with portfolio. Above all, this is not for a more incisive action, but to satisfy the sometimes distinct and distant members of the governmental majority or, as in this case, to cover, with a blanket of Linus paid by taxpayers, the political contrasts within the same majority. This is called multiplication of places to gain some oxygen. Among other things, the tone of this measure determines the unjustified abuse of the criteria of necessity and urgency: but what urgency, what necessity? This urgency and this need arise only from the need for a political policy to produce yet another "repartition" as my friend and colleague says - proving once again to ignore that intervening on the organization of the state and the functioning of the same has significant consequences for the whole country system and for every type of sector and activity that acts within it. Another urgent decree-law, therefore, which is urgent only has the need not to give this Parliament the opportunity to deepen, listen, build with all the actors of the new path for a revival of school and university. We are then faced with yet another expropriation of the legislative power, without any respect for the institutional form. I have heard in these hours, yesterday in the general debate, today in the explanation of vote, so many fine words, so many wishes, so many ideas, but is that what we are voting on today? Are we voting on the school and university guidelines? No. This decree-law has no design, mortifies skills, adds nothing but armchairs. Not that I would raise the two pillars of the nation, as someone said yesterday in general discussion! Among other things, it is an illogical decision on the part of those who say every day that they want to follow the best examples of Europe. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, this cannot continue. I can't go on with this buzz.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u44	Senator, excuse me. I was committed to solving a question about the following.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u45	MOLES (FIBP-UDC). I understand that it is not interesting what the oppositions say, but at least respect. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I can assure you that, unfortunately, inattention today is equally shared. Colleagues, please lower your voice so that you allow your colleague to continue and we can follow the intervention. You're welcome, Senator. MOLES (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, President. The question we ask ourselves is what is the use of all this, what are the contents, what are the investments in human resources. There's only millions of euros for staff here. Does it serve to fill that immense abyss between the end of the course of study and the beginning of the adventure in the world of work? Is it to cover that huge gap of professional figures required? Does it take to have a school and a university with no more end in itself? Can you show us how you intend to ensure that the two Ministries and the two Ministers work together for this? And again: what Minister Manfredi wants to do, which is the same that a short time ago had strongly criticized the government's maneuver, of which he is part today, talking about deep concern for the direction diametrically opposed to that expected and even added: Even emerging countries rely on universities and research: no Italy? What do you propose with regard to high directions, pre-role reform, lack of medium-term vision, populist and baronial complaints? And again: what do you want to do - if you want to do it - to finally integrate state public schools and equal public schools? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] While it is true, as it is true, that the resources in the State budget for education and university account for just under 8% (and we have in Europe cases like Germany at 9.3, France at 9.6, the United Kingdom at 11.35 and we have peaks in countries like Holland and Belgium over 12%), the scarcity of economic resources invested in a fundamental sector such as school and university is identical to that highlighted by the resignation of the former Minister of Grillino. What are you going to do? Will you, new ministers - who are not there - have the courage to move from words to deeds, perhaps moving part of the 7 billion wasted on the income of citizenship to university and school? I am sorry that the two new ministers did not deserve to come to this House at least once. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] If there is no respect for the opposition, they should at least have been present to thank the majority who donated to him by the Ministries. Before reorganizing and multiplying the Ministries, this Government should finally rearrange its ideas. He should reorganize and reorder his thoughts first of all and instead simply implement a break-up of Ministries, while all the causes of the resignation of the former Minister Fioramonti remain. Minister Fioramonti was fired politically and in place of a minister he made two, almost like the end-of-season sales. Not bad for those who, the people's lawyer, claimed to interpret the anxiety of change of the mythical civil society. If the degree continues to have formal legal value, do you finally want to tell us how you want to make sense of this legal value? The Italian reality of the school and university did not need a reshuffle of government. School and university are a common good that belongs to the whole country, and not to the collectible majorities that pro tempore govern it. For the abuse that you are consuming to the detriment of this common good, for all the other reasons set out, for consistency and above all for respect of the truth, Forza Italia will vote proudly and firmly against this provision. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u46	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u48	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for several weeks we have been hearing about universities, research, how valuable our researchers are and, as is often the case in these cases, these stories are enriched with details, such as the geographical origin of researchers or gender, as women. Yet research does not need this; research does not need propaganda end in itself. Research needs funds, investments, vision, programming of the future country that you want to build. Research is not a means of political exploitation, nor can it be a matter of pleasure that comes out when you want to create a special effect. Research, ladies and gentlemen, is a bulwark to ensure the stability of the future and fly for the development of the country and if we have so far invested too little in these areas, it means that we have been short-sighted. According to Istat data, Italy is at the last places in Europe for investment in research and development, with only 1.3% of GDP invested in these sectors. And if we consider that 95% of these investments are borne by private companies, it means that public investment barely reaches 0.5% of GDP. This is because the governments that preceded us made devastating cuts to universities and research, justifying poor investment with greater meritocracy. So an absurd: less educated, but more deserving. And as a result of these cuts, Italy was the only country in the OECD area that in these years of economic crisis has cut precisely in the sectors in which all other countries invested, Germany in the lead: research, innovation and new technologies. The stellar cuts in Italy have led to a blockage of the generational turnover in universities with a concentration of the academic system in a few poles, with 50 percent of the teaching staff now represented by precarious figures. Doctoral grants since 2007 have been reduced by 43%. We have the lowest number of researchers per number employed with five researchers per thousand employed, against the ten in Japan and the United States, the fifteen in Korea, Sweden, Denmark and Finland. After us there are only Chile, Turkey and Poland. Despite these cuts, ours is a scientific production of excellence. The contribution to the international scientific publications of our researchers has risen from 3% to 4%. This means that we have excellences that we do not know or want to enhance. And to give you an even clearer idea of what it means to do research in this country, I want to tell you a story, that of a researcher from the South who, for the sake of this work, unique in his degree course in medicine, decides to follow the path of the PhD research and then to move to the United States, where he produces numerous scientific publications, one, in the first name, on "Science" magazine among the most prestigious. Despite having a successful future in the United States, however, he decides to return to the country that formed it, convinced that merit is rewarded sooner or later: in Italy instead he clashes with a world made of baronates and elitist circles, which allow her to participate in a competition for researcher only five years after his return. Researchers in research institutions, however, in Italy do not have a defined pre-role path, but a salary four times lower than that of their European colleagues, nor do they have a small budget to allow them to do research. If this had worked in America too, the work on "Science" would never have published the researcher: it is then convinced that the responsibility is mainly political, a policy that has so far thought of research as an item of expenditure and not investment, which weighs on the public accounts, a policy that does not know how to value its talents and forces them to emigrate. With the knowledge that responsibility is above all political, this researcher temporarily abandons, with suffering, her beloved laboratory and decides to speak to that world: for two years she denounces the condition in which her colleagues work in Italy and in all the useful measures tries to insert amendments in favour of research. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator D'Alfonso.]] Amendments ranging from the adaptation of doctoral grants to the minimum contribution to the increase in the number of doctoral grants available each year, from the increase in the fund dedicated to research organisations to the equitable distribution of funds throughout the national territory, from the reform of the prerole for researchers to the enhancement of merit in all public competitions. This researcher has even asked members of her parliamentary group to allocate some of the salaries they return to provide researchers with a small budget to do research. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Today it is here, armed with a last flame of hope, which puts itself in the very institution - finally - of a Ministry dedicated to universities and research that goes hand in hand with that of education. To have guaranteed new resources in the budget law for the right to study and to have expanded the number of specialist training contracts are encouraging signs, as is the desire, announced by President Conte, to start a multiannual recruitment plan for about 10,000 researchers over the next five years. The plan in part has already started in the measure that we are about to discuss in this House this afternoon. That this, then, ladies and gentlemen, is the real and concrete attempt to finally reverse a wrong course, because the progress of our country can no longer be without major investments in education, universities and research. These ministries, the ministers of Manfredi and Azzolina, will be entrusted with the challenges that lie ahead in these areas. Giving our young talents the opportunity to form in this country and then to return to the country that formed them must become the opportunity for Italy to be the cradle of scientific renaissance, as well as again humanism. Pushing our economy towards the vanguard will mean pulling it out of the stagnation in which it has been bogged down for years, because in a territory so rich in tradition, culture, human resources excellently formed and potential, scientific and technological research can really function as a pivot for the growth and competitiveness at international level even of Italian companies. Finally, to give ourselves, colleagues, and therefore to politics the moral opportunity to show that we have a vision and we hold to the future as to the present, will mean in fact having the power to build a better country by learning from the mistakes of the past. With confidence in a future that finally puts education and research among the treasures to be protected and protected, I therefore announce the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u49	I note that a proposal for coordination by the rapporteur has been presented and is being distributed, and I would like to explain this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u50	Mr President, I would like to read the coordinating proposal: Article 3a, as introduced by Amendment 3.0.100, to the letter e-bis of paragraph 1, as introduced by Amendment 3.0.100/1, to replace the words: 'of the Ministry of Education' by the following: 'of the Ministry of Education, University and Research' and 'of the Ministry of Education'.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u51	Pursuant to Rule 103 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of the proposal for coordination C1, tabled by the rapporteur. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No. 1 of 9 January 2020 laying down urgent provisions for the establishment of the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of University and Research. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u52	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u54	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to consider the progress of our work and knowing that the next item on the agenda will be the debate on the draft law on the so-called'multi-pronged decree', since I do not think that we can examine the amendments, which are 600, but at least vote on the agendas, I would like to suspend the work of the House until 1 p.m., so that we can begin the examination of the measure and reasonably conclude it during this day.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u57	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I am speaking only to inform the House that we agree with the proposal made by President Calderoli.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u60	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, we also agree with the proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u61	Since there are no comments to the contrary, I therefore suspend the work until 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.33 p.m. and resumed at 13.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u62	The next item is the debate on the draft law: Conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 162 of 30 December 2019 laying down urgent provisions concerning the extension of legislative terms, the organisation of public administrations, and technological innovation. I call the President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Borghesi, to report on the Commission's work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u63	Mr President, the Commission has not been able to finish its work. Indeed, it has not even been able to deal with the vote on a single amendment because the opinions of the 5th Commission were missing. The only thing the Commission could do was to deal with and vote on the agenda. We have reached this point and I believe that there is no room for further work in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Borghesi's report, draft law No 1729, since the examination has not been completed in the Commission, will be discussed in the text transmitted by the Chamber of Deputies without report, pursuant to Rule 44 (3) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u65	Mr Calderoli, illustrious fellow senators, this decree-law extends time limits for a wide and uneven range of subjects in a wide range of areas: extension of time limits for territorial authorities, justice, the environment, infrastructure, social policies, education, universities, culture, health, seismic events, sports, popular banks and cooperative banking groups, investment financing and infrastructure development in the country. You understand that this is far too much than just one bill. These are more than 230 different themes and topics, considering also the changes introduced by the Chamber in complete and absolute unevenness. I will not go into the subject matter because colleagues will do it after me, but the decree-law on our examination, more than those that preceded it in the past years, marks a totally wrong, wrong legislative approach, because it proposes incorrect or difficult to implement rules, prolonging their entry into force or effectiveness. It also signals - and this is the most serious thing in our humble judgment - the inability of the public administration and the government, which gives the political direction, to comply with the deadlines set by the laws. You understand that it is a kind of demonstration of inability to govern this country, a public recognition of political responsibility. Therefore, the systematic use of a decree-law containing a plurality of extensions in many areas - not by chance always defined as a thousandprorogations for this reason - renders meaningless the examination of the presuppositions of necessity and urgency that are clearly and unequivocally enshrined in Article 77 of the Constitution with respect to the specific rules, where normal legislative interventions of modulation of deadlines would be more appropriate and rational. This legislative practice - we have also mentioned it several times in other circumstances - censored many times by the Constitutional Court, continues, once again, to mortify, impoverishe, the role of Parliament. But it is now known to all Italians the will, the desire on the part of this majority to give less and less meaning to the Chambers, to give less and less meaning especially to the cornerstones of our Constitutional Charter. This is in open conflict with the provisions of Article 70 of the Constitution which gives only the Chambers the exercise of their legislative function. The uneven and heterogeneous content of the decree-law in our examination is very much in contrast with the provisions of the Constitution on urgent decrees. The importance of the criterion of homogeneity of content is one of the fundamental pillars on which the Constitutional Court has, in several decisions, founded the argumentative paths linked to the verification of compliance with the indispensable requirements of extraordinary necessity and urgency required by Article 77 of our Constitution for the legitimate adoption of decree-laws. The perpetuation of derogations from ordinary procedures, of the preparation of regulatory measures that even during this legislature are taking the form of urgent decree through the continuous, repeated and insistent composition of omnibus decrees, represents a clear alteration of the institutional balances attributable to the relationship between Government and Parliament, therefore between executive power and legislative power. This clearly undermines Parliament's prerogatives in the exercise of its legislative function, which often goes hand in hand with excessive recourse to the issue of trust. Now, very soon the Count Government, now called Count 2, will put on this measure its twenty-eighth - I repeat, dear Undersecretary: twenty-eighth - question of trust. Count has now become a recordman even compared to the past. That is the change, rightly! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We have to give a round of applause, but President Conte is certainly not speaking to me, because he has beaten all the records, he is very strong and it will be almost impossible to overcome it in the future. Moreover, it should be remembered that this is a government which, like the previous government, does not have a direct popular mandate, as has been mentioned several times, and is chaired by a President of the Council who has not passed any electoral scrutiny, so he assumes a responsibility that has not even been conferred on him by the Italians. And it is supported by a majority that has carried out a reduction in the number of illegious and unfair parliamentarians and that tends to be qualified as an anti-parliamentary norm because it is not linked to a precise and proportionate constitutional architecture. But we will have a chance to talk about this again, given that the referendum will be held shortly. The instrument of the decree of urgency, therefore, which should by its nature be exceptional, temporary and, above all, tending not repeatable - therefore only an exception, while, as we have seen, it has become a rule - at the time when the current Executive makes use of it, confirms for the umpteenth time a form of imbalance and forcing of the balances of the powers envisaged, as I have already said. from our current Constitution, which, despite our age, we continue to love. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] That is why the absolutely arbitrary use - and I am going to conclude - of Article 77 of the Constitution requires a system of reflection on the management of measures by the Government vis-à-vis Parliament. We therefore call for the measure not to be examined again on this occasion. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u66	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, one representative per group may speak in the debate on the question for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u67	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u69	THE PIETRA (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Brothers of Italy will vote in favour of this question. I will not go into the substance of the text described above, since it has been well explained how this measure impacts in a way contrary to the dictates of our Constitution, in particular Articles 70 and 77. On the other hand, it is necessary to go into the substance and method of how this measure has been brought to the attention of this House. It is now a well-established practice, unfortunately, to use this measure to extend deadlines that often the Government itself is not able to respect, as it is now a practice to incorporate into its own uneven elements, transforming it into a real omnibus decree: in fact another financial one. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, if possible, I would like to have a little listening. ( [[Call the president back.]] "Milleproroghe" is a name that was chosen and continues to be used for this type of decrees. It is not by chance that in popular language, everyday, it represents an indeterminate value: having a thousand thoughts, a thousand worries, a thousand reasons, a way to quantify something exaggerated. Well, I believe that this time the exaggeration has been achieved, inserting within this measure everything that could be inserted and giving life, in fact, to a recognition, an oboleum, a help, an attempt in some way to silence, on the one hand, the fibrillations now apparent within the majority and, on the other, to buffer the inability of the Government to manage and direct a policy of development of the nation. There are also useful measures within, few, but the need to demand confidence has prevented minority political forces from being able to interact and to provide correction elements: yet another situation in which Parliament's prerogatives for dialogue and confrontation have failed. Brothers of Italy was able to make a positive contribution, making some corrective and improvement proposals, presented by the party during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies: I am thinking of the extension of fixed-term contracts of social services personnel or the extension of the deadlines for the completion of fire prevention work for all tourist-hotel facilities, not only those located in the territories affected by the exceptional weather events that have occurred since 2 October 2018 and the seismic events of 2016 and 2017, which obviously need more time to complete the adaptation, or, again, the application of the rule on dry coupon in municipalities affected by calamitous events or the postponement to 31 December 2021 of the terms set for the verification of seismic vulnerability of school buildings. Many others have been the proposals of our Group that have not been accepted or transposed by the text and that is why you proposed here in the Senate, despite the fact that the text has been armored. We could have done more and better if we listened. These are the results that the Fratelli d'Italia Group considers necessary and corresponding to the numerous amending proposals put forward in the various sectors concerned by the measure, security and defence to agriculture: I am talking, for example, about the postponement of the obligation of electronic invoicing for municipalities without network coverage, the extension for the dismantling of folders and rules dedicated to local authorities. These and many other proposals of common sense have not been heard, demonstrating a political insensitivity in transposing the needs that come from different parts of the country and from more sectors of our society and economy. But it will then be my group colleagues who will dwell on and deepen their comments on the many amendments tabled, of which I have just mentioned a few examples. On the other hand, I would like to stress that this measure is totally lacking in a vision of agriculture and made in Italy, which is a very dear issue to us. The extension on plastic tax and sugar tax is just a patch, if we think of the damage that these taxes have already caused: I think of the companies that have already announced to move their production to other countries or those that will double the costs of the raw material with the real concern to create economic damage and therefore employment. No concrete action against counterfeiting and the protection of our products of excellence in agri-food. No support for our companies in view of what will happen because of Brexit and American duties. As is now customary, there is a lack of initiatives in favour of the fisheries sector, such as a genuine simplification of the sector which could give competitiveness to such an important sector for our nation. Still a confidence in the measure. This is not the first time and will not be the last, but this indicates that this heterogeneous majority lacks a unitary project and is united only by the need not to make Italians the possibility to vote for the fear of going home and for this reason must increasingly resort to the obvious vote of confidence. For these reasons, I repeat, on behalf of Brothers of Italy, my vote in favour of the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1 and therefore of the fact that this measure is not being examined. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u70	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u71	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u72	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, the one thousand-pronged decree - we know - is now a well-established practice in Italy. But I would like to remind my fellow senators who are talking to us today - and I quote - about a wide and uneven range of subjects, a vehicle to insert a mixed set of rules without any connection to it, that the first thousandprorogues was introduced in Italy in 2005, when the Government was precisely their parties, who not only introduced, but also endorsed a practice carried out for ten consecutive years, until 2015. Why didn't you refer the question on those occasions? However, Article 77 of the Constitution does not appear to have been amended since it entered into force in 1948. I will say more: in 2007, under the Berlusconi-b Government, the same decree was called ironically millederoghe since it contained many dispositions ad personam including: the extension of two years of the mandate of the members of the independent Authorities; the significant package of derogations in the field of infrastructure and transport; changes of the pact on health expenditure of the Regions. So, colleagues, it is not that the decree-law is only good when you intend to make some kind of decision. We are working here for the citizens and every measure of ours aims to compensate for years and years of immobility of Italian politics. We have done so with the budget law, an absolutely not simple and courageous maneuver, which we have managed to carry out anyway only three months after the beginning of the Count-A and now we are ending with this decree-law, which aims to realistically impact on the economy and public administration. Because that is what we want to encourage. You speak of the inability of the public administration and the government to comply with the schedule, but public administration is not an abstract concept as you want to make believe. The Public Administration, which represents the fundamental part of the country, needs, more than all, courageous norms, that serve to age it and to give it new sap. For this reason, in this measure, we have included a number of rules concerning it, guaranteeing, not only turnover, but also the stabilisation of those profiles that, although having acquired skills in the field, risk losing their jobs at any moment, depriving the public administration itself of important competences. Then, if you want a faster public administration, you need to facilitate its digitization. We are doing this, for example through the PagoPA platform. Where were you while public administration became obsolete? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It's a matter of priority. For us there are many transversal emergencies, both to the country and to matter, and we will always use all the tools at our disposal to satisfy all the urgent needs of our country, in the shortest possible time. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u73	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Bernini and other senators for a preliminary ruling. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u76	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to ask that the deadline for tabling amendments to the Decree-Law on the so-called tax wedge be reopened. This is because the question of coronavirus is certainly primarily a health issue, but there is also the economic aspect, on which we tried to draw attention last week. There are many businesses in difficulty. There are families in difficulty in the tourism, trade and catering sectors, but now in all sectors. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] With a series of closures, in Italy and outside Italy, in fact, there are very many aspects that must be dealt with as soon as possible. Of course, we will be tabling a very limited number of amendments, because the aim really is to make proposals that serve Italy. We hope that the majority and the government will accept them and that they will study them in substance and not just by category. For example, there is the question of vouchers, to mention just one aspect. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] These days, with so many precarious workers who have not been able to work and with work behind, which we hope will resume as soon as possible, we ask to be able to formulate our proposals on this measure, which, precisely, is fiscal in nature and also has, in its aims, the task of meeting the growth of Italy or, unfortunately, of these times, not to decrease. We therefore call for the possibility of this reopening of the terms. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u79	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would just like to say to Senator Malan that, of course, I share his concern and that of those who express the need to intervene quickly in order to identify what measures to put in place on an economic issue which, as a result of the issue of the virus, unfortunately, is characterising a great deal of our political commitment as well. I would, however, like to say to Senator Malan that the instrument will soon give it to us by the Government, with an ad hoc measure that, among other things, required all political forces. Therefore, I would avoid transforming the tax wedge decree-law into a measure incorporating instruments that we already intend to include, with a special decree that we Members can also participate in, by tabling amendments and ad hoc measures. This right away, and the Council of Ministers intends to act as soon as possible. Then perhaps the government will want to say something, to strengthen what I am saying, about the fact that it intends to intervene immediately on economic issues. Therefore, let us not divide ourselves on the instrument: we all agree that we must intervene quickly, we are identifying the best routes and I would avoid using this, since the Government has made a commitment to make an instrument available immediately. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u80	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u81	Mr President, it is clear that the Government is urged by the demands made, but it also feels obliged to reassure it. You know that the tax wedge decree is born after the adoption, in the budget law, of an important rule and it is a measure to which the Commission is working in an orderly manner, so much so that a strictly limited number of amendments have been tabled, even in accordance with oppositions, to focus on that aspect. You also know that, in the face of the emergency that the country is experiencing, a decree-law on emergency has been drawn up, more related to health regulations, which, as you know, has already been presented to the Commission in the Chamber of Deputies and which will be resolved on a day-to-day basis. Moreover, in these days, it has already been dealt with technically too - I note this, because all the opposition forces have been called upon to bring their contributions, at the drafting stage - a decree-law, which the Council of Ministers will carry out in the coming days, for which there will be concerted work, in order to convert it, with the measures that Parliament will report, into a report of complete sharing, since the subject we are sharing and we are all living it. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u82	Colleagues, I have some concerns about what I have heard and which should not be the subject of the question of the possibility and the assessment of eligibility in relation to the matter. On the possible delay, I can propose a transaction term between the two things, since the deadline for the presentation would already have ended yesterday, at 7 p.m. I therefore ask whether the deadline for the presentation at noon tomorrow would be shared by everyone.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u85	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking only to reply to the representative of the Government and of course to Mr Pharaoh. We are aware of the particularity of the request we are making. Mr President, you are a teacher on parliamentary technicalities and you are certainly saying the right things. We also realize, however, the emerging climate that characterizes these hours. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the technicalities of the Rules of Procedure must be respected at litteram, but we have a country that is moving from the health emergency to the economic emergency. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Unfortunately, on Saturday and Sunday, we saw the President of the Council circulating in all Italian television networks and we saw him say that we were going from an epidemic to a pandemic. Yesterday we were the lazzaretto of Europe and today everything is fine. The one held by the Government is a discrasia communicativa and it tells you who, with all the Parliamentary Group Forza Italia of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, has held an absolutely responsible behavior - let me use this word for everyone - towards the dramatic problem of coronavirus. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Mr President, we cannot believe, however, that a decree-law, which was to be issued two days ago and which has not yet seen the light, is sufficient to meet the country's dramatic needs. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] So please: less technicality and more understanding for the problem of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u86	Colleagues, I will give the floor to those who request it, all of whom are referring to the fact that we are discussing the deadline for tabling amendments and we must not enter into a debate on the subject, which is frankly not the subject of our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u89	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, you have preceded me because, in my opinion, if we want to deal with emerging situations, we must do this first with lucidity and method, otherwise we are giving an answer that I do not think is in everyone's interest either. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). He's an assist. Mr Perilli (M5S). In response to your request, Mr President, I would say that the tax wedge law has nothing to do with it, it must have its own path, it has already had it, and the deadline for tabling amendments has already expired. A response has been given by the Government and we, too, Group Presidents, know that we are working on a decree-law. I believe you have made an invitation, which I repeat, not to try to force certain instrumentalizations from the point of view of dramatization, because in this way we really go in the opposite direction. I do not want to cause any controversy, but I would urge my fellow Members to try not to go on the other side of an issue that has already been defined. The government intervened and said that there will be a decree-law, we are aware of it. Let us give ourselves time to be able to put together all the rules in the interests of everyone, because now, when we say that there is an emergency, we can engage in every measure to ask to open the deadline for tabling amendments. We must give ourselves a method, because lucidity, calmness and the way we proceed really make a difference in these moments. Mr President, I very much appreciated your invitation not to go into the matter, because if the intention of my colleagues in the Centre-Right was to go against the Government, to say that it is irresponsible how we are dealing with the coronavirus, this is wrong, it is something we strongly reject. We've been asked a question, a request. In my opinion the deadline for tabling amendments has already expired, the tax wedge measure must maintain its course, which is why we are against it. [[Applause from the M5S Group and the Senators, Pharaoh and Ferrari.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u92	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that the concern that Senator Malan has made to the House is acceptable, so let us take the opportunity - and the words of Mr Malpezzi reassure us - to ask the Government strongly, on the one hand, to speed up this measure and, on the other hand, to deepen it with the necessary attention to a situation which is objectively very delicate. The decree-law to which reference has been made has a specific title and I believe that objectively there are no terms to include within it issues other than the central one; therefore there are neither the conditions nor objectively the reasons for reopening the deadline for tabling amendments. Let's do this. It is a decree-law which we consider to be very important and which is a central part of the government's action and the political action of this majority. We therefore consider that we must proceed as decided, but we join in the call to work in tight times with great attention in the interest of the country in issuing a decree-law that helps us in this delicate phase, in which we need the contribution and support of the whole country and of all political forces. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u95	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the decree-law on the tax wedge is a sort of implementing decree of a political decision included in the budget law. I would like to remind ourselves that this time it is known that, even with regard to proposals for the inclusion of different subjects, we wanted to focus solely on a specific subject. Therefore, not that the issues raised are absolutely not relevant, on the contrary they are for the attention of all of us and the Government has just reiterated it. Of course, this House's call for speed is important, but it is clear that meetings are still taking place with the various categories: some were made yesterday by Minister Patuanelli and there are others in progress to better decide together the most urgent and effective measures. We, too, of course, ask the Government to act quickly, but the measures must have their coordination, their consistency and, above all, be the result of the confrontation that is taking place in these hours with the various categories, with all those who are in a difficult and emergency situation. So let us maintain this way of working. Obviously, as happened to the House for the decree-law concerning urgent measures in the health field, for which there has been speed and collaboration from all oppositions, we too (I imagine also the oppositions) will undertake to examine quickly the measure as soon as the Government - and the Government will soon - will present the urgent measures from the economic point of view. I believe that this is the most straightforward and wise way to move forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u96	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u98	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we in the Lega Group fully agree that we can go along the path of an ad hoc decree-law, provided that the measure is adopted very quickly. This is the fundamental issue. On the other hand, since we have been told (it seems to me now that this is the position of the majority) that absolutely in the decree-law on the cutting of the tax wedge does not have to enter anything that does not concern the issue at issue, then perhaps it is better for the Government to withdraw some amendments that it has tabled to that text that has absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] If the rules state that the argument is that, the EUR 250 million increase on the revolving fund for the internalisation of enterprises is an absolutely important argument, but it has nothing to do with the issue of cutting the tax wedge. If you have to adhere to the rules in a thorough way, waiting for the ad hoc decree to arrive, this must apply to everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u99	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u100	It is not possible for a group to speak in three: Senator Malan spoke and Senator Bernini spoke. You, Senator, what are you gonna do about it? MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). On the order of business, President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. If it is on this subject, it cannot. MALLEGNI (FIBP-UDC). We wanted to ask a question that was not particularly reasoned. In view of the recommendations made by all the groups, we would like to know - I hope the government can tell us this - the date when, more or less, we think we can dismiss the measure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u101	[[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u102	All right, that sounds right to me. In response to Senator Malan's request, if the deadlines had not already expired, I would suggest that you table an amendment to the thousandprorogation decree for the extension of the terms of the cut of the tax wedge. However, as a request established in terms of time by the Conference of Leaders and as there is no unanimity with regard to this proposal, I must consider it to be rejected. It is understood that if today's work continues on the planned path, there may be a Conference of Leaders in which you will be able to make the same proposal. With regard to the debate and the attention that has emerged in this Assembly on the subject, I speak with respect to the Undersecretary so that, in the full freedom and autonomy of the Government, in the allocation of the measures, the Senate will also be taken into account as the first assignee of the next decree-law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u103	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u104	Mr President, we are here to talk about the multi-pronged decree-law, which in fact represents a bit of the review of the correction of the budget law 2020; a second part of that law which, as is the case with this decree-law, in fact arrives armored in the Senate's classrooms. The Senate of the Republic could not speak on the budget law 2020, because it arrived armored, and so the decree milleproroghe comes to us armored and we can not in fact say anything. I want to make this clear. I also want to emphasize and remind, without irony and also in friendship, the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars that we are yet another trust. So much was said about the decree of urgency and trust, but this Government does nothing but continue on this path, which exproprates of so many peculiarities and potential the parliamentary classrooms. I want to make this clear. On the subject, I would like to discuss two articles in general: Articles 1 and 12. The first concerns car taxation. In this regard, I cannot fail to point out, given the fiscal nature that characterizes this decree-law, a historic battle of Brothers of Italy, that is, the one for the abolition of the superbolt on so-called sports cars, for which we have repeatedly tabled amendments - never accepted - and also a bill. I want to remind all of us that the so-called taxation of the supervignette on sports cars, introduced at the time of the Monti Government together with the taxation on nautical, has created only a nocument to the state treasury: it is the data that say so, they are not opinions. The state, in fact, collects less money than it was before, precisely because thanks to the so-called supervigil the sports cars have all been sold and sold, they are no longer bought and an entire automotive sector has gone into crisis. We have therefore destroyed a sector for a demagogic and populist measure, bringing damage to the state's coffers, on the one hand, and to the pleasure of motorists, on the other. In this decree-law you could have put your hand to this ridiculous tax on sports cars. I now come to Article 12, in which the word 'end' is finally put to the so-called bonus-malus system of insurance. Basically, the bonus-malus was a system that rewarded virtuous drivers, that is, those careful drivers who did not create accidents, and penalized instead those who were not virtuous, who caused accidents and therefore burdened insurance. It happened that, already with the so-called Bersani decrees, the Democratic Party put a first mortal wedge on the bonus-malus system, where it was expected that those who bought an additional car within a family were entitled to the category of the most virtuous member of their family. This created not a few difficulties and also situations of circumvention, because many sold the car and canceled the insurance, then bought another, concluding a new one: already then, therefore, in fact, with the Bersani decrees, the lowest tariff applied to the motorist who was perhaps absolutely not virtuous, but with the highest tariff; this fell then on the premiums and the lowest rates, because of course the insurances account for their budgets. Not content with what the Bersani decree had done, the Government Count II, which has the majority present today, wanted to go further, with two aspects: firstly, extending the Bersani to all categories of vehicles; at least before it was limited to the fact that the same category was bought (car with car, motorbike with motorbike); with this decree-milleproroghe law, it applies indifferently to the additional vehicle - whether truck, car or motorbike - the most favorable class present in the family, with the consequences that I said before. There is worse, however, unfortunately: this measure even leads to the fact that, with every policy renewal, we have to repair the new policy to the most virtuous member of the family; here too, we are faced with a classic populist measure, because it apparently gives an advantage to the families, but in reality it happens that more administrative burdens are created, as insurance agents, for every policy renewal, will have to verify the family state and all the policies of each of us, so apply the lowest class. Who pays these charges? Insurance agents or companies? In one case as in the other, costs will be turned on consumers. What is worse, however, is that, when everyone has the chance to have the lowest class, the most virtuous one, of dad or mom who don't do accidents, the insurance will have to increase the premiums of the lowest classes and within a short time, one or two years, we will all be penalized: the most virtuous classes will be penalized, the best drivers, those who don't do accidents... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] May I have a moment, please, Mr President. The weakest classes, friends of the left, and the poorest, who have only one car, will be penalized, even if they were good and were careful not to create accidents; instead, those who have so many cars in the house, therefore the richest, and who were not disciplined to drive, will be rewarded. This is the result of your decree-law and the umpteenth populist policy of this Government, which - I repeat - mocks the Italians, making them think they pay less, but in reality will charge more all, to the detriment of the weakest, the poorest and the most virtuous. To this Government and to this decree-law, Brothers of Italy consistently and clearly opposes and says no. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u105	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bruzzone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u106	Mr President, I asked to speak briefly, because it is my intention to show how jagged and, in some parts, bizarre and even schizophrenic this measure is. Let's basically go back to the old tips laws: someone in the House called it a "marquettificio" (marquettificio); I prefer to call it a real fair of marchettes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] In 150 pages you have put everything and more, with the only goal of buffering here and there an unsustainable situation and therefore the risk, in the end, that remains every day and is seen in your faces, is to lose the chair, go to vote and lose a caregun, as they call it to my country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] You are putting your fear of confrontation with the sovereign people in view again this time. In the past years we had listened to the many spokesmen of the people swearing that, once in the government, they would never again bring to the Assembly, nor voted on measures such as the so-called thousandprorogations decree, which do nothing but normalize the transitory through a postponement of terms that has now become recurrent and even periodic. But of this we are no longer surprised, also because the veil of hypocrisy, dear colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, has torn and the people will never again give you an opportunity to govern. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] My regret is that we will have missed another right chance. In fact, this could be the time to intervene on the real needs of the country and find effective answers to restart companies, employment and, more generally, the economy of Italy. But no, the government, disinteresting itself in the real problems, has decided to focus on aspects that are of marginal interest and, above all, do not provide any prospects for future development. It could be an opportunity to find together virtuous paths on many important themes and listen to the alarm cry of economic operators. This could have been the occasion - and we at the League tried with our amendments - to give an answer to Italian farmers. But no, you refused, once again, to address the problem of the damage caused by wildlife. You did not want to set up a special fund for containment plans, to be activated through those in this country that are already enabled. You have refused to enhance the legal supply chain of game meat, a specific subject, but very important. You have even refused - and this is a serious matter - to accept the transposition into law of a Constitutional Court ruling on hunting legislation, perhaps because you did not want to lie to your Minister Costa, who has collected and is continuing to collect so many nasty figures on this issue. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And so all professional farmers and even those who devote themselves to agriculture by passion are destined to continue to suffer damage that would be avoidable. They will continue to suffer your living room environmentalism, which is the real enemy of the rural world. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And it will continue to increase, unfortunately, the number of deaths and injuries on Italian roads due to accidents caused by wildlife. Congratulations on the courage. Bravo, you want to be responsible for these accidents as well. In view of this attitude, we mean that you do not care about the damage to farmers and, unfortunately, not even the deaths on the roads. Congratulations. And congratulations also to the Democratic Party, which in the past was not so and which today has flattened itself on the extremist animalism of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] You've been emotional at times. We have seen and we see your embarrassment when, in order not to trigger a government crisis, you continue to convene summits. Make vertices on vertices. Is there a problem? Say you'll make a summit. You're always at the top of this pyramid and then, in the end, you look down and you don't even notice it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Go ahead with the top. By making these summits, they are wrinkled, wrinkled, and are still wrinkled; they do not notice and continue to hurt themselves. In the budget law you even made illusionists with taxes and leaps that appeared and disappeared. Now with the measure under consideration postpone because people can no longer stand you, as you will soon see in Veneto, Liguria, Marche, Puglia, Tuscany and Campania. Mr President, I do not go any further and I begin to conclude, as I have to be saddened by this trade mark law, this umpteenth request for confidence in the same measure. Trust the House and trust the Senate and then tomorrow again trust and trust the day after tomorrow. We keep moving forward with trust. Trust everything. For the Movimento 5 Stars it was enough to go to the government with the Democratic Party to self-cancel in a tuna branded trust. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Have the courage to go and ask the Italians for trust and not in this House and you will see that the Italians will probably lift their feet from the ground to give you a clear and clear signal. It's time to stop. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u107	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u108	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I support what Mr Bruzzone has said about hunting, especially because of the serious problem of thefts. We made announcements in the public square, the Minister of Agriculture came, but nothing has changed and accidents continue. As far as the milleproroghe is concerned, I do not disagree, but I have a different view than some of my colleagues. I think it is an instrument of government, because it is inevitable that there are delays, anticipations or changes to be made. I am not surprised that there is anything and more; I would ask, however, if it were possible, at least politically, the presence of a tomorrow of conditions of reciprocity, allowing that if the situation were on the contrary, if there were a government of center-right, you would do the same. I can't believe we went to the notary. As far as the amendments are concerned, trust is placed, everything is missing. There are certainly constructive proposals in the amendments, both from the majority and from the opposition. I would therefore like to make a few comments. In the decree-law there is a very important omission concerning the issue of limitation, which has been discussed in all contexts except in Parliament. I would have proposed an extension at least to 2050, if not one day, because the term of one year, a year and a half, seems insufficient to me to be able to deepen a subject of this kind which, together with the measure on interceptions, which is the subject of confidence together with the so-called corrupt sweep, undermines the system of citizens' freedom. It will take years, lustres and decades to get the system back on track. Then there were some problems. I am referring to the issue of motorway concessions. I believe that those granted many years ago, until about 2050, were to be renegotiated, but we should go and investigate, see who prepared them, who signed them and who approved them. You realize, however, that the ownership of the Atlantia group is not only the Benetton family, but there is a widespread shareholder, there is also the Deposit and Loan Fund, there are insurance and banking foundations. The damage has already been done with the statements that followed the collapse of the Morandi Bridge. The operation provided for in Article 38 of the measure, which effectively authorises the withdrawal of concessions, will be the second step. I think we're gonna destroy society. However, we will have nothing to put in place because the Anas, with the many tasks that it has and that it carries out more or less well, is not able, in my opinion, neither from the technical point of view, nor practical, to compensate and manage the motorway network. There are, in my opinion, other messes and other inaccuracies. Since I like to talk about local authorities, I will mention Article 17, which deals with the staff of the Provinces who will be able to resume recruitment under certain conditions, but which explains the threshold value, defined as a percentage differentiated by population to determine how many people can be hired. And this will be done by decree of the Minister of Public Administration, in agreement with the Minister of Economy and Finance and the Minister of the Interior, after agreement in the State-City Conference and local autonomy, within sixty days of the date of entry into force of this provision. I think it could be simply said that the Provinces can hire. Article 18 concerns recruitment in municipalities. Paragraph 1 provides for the launch of tenders, but suggests that it is the Department of the public service that prepares a standard call to help small administrations, who are unable to carry out these operations. I believe that in this way we will go further and delay them because the small administrations and the small municipalities are safely able, through the conventions, to carry out the bans, as long as they have the green light. Among the other issues which I consider to be of limited impact and difficulties of implementation, there is the one provided for in Article 43, which concerns small municipalities and municipalities in general, on the reduction of the debt burden of local authorities and regions against the State. Well, this is EUR 2 million for the current year and EUR 4 million for next year. Two million euros divided by 8,000 municipalities makes 250 euros to Municipality. Not everyone will be interested and, therefore, it will be about 400 euros a year per municipality for a very complicated operation. It is stipulated, among other things, that the State will take care of the retroactive debts and will request in return a special delegation and, above all, will give the revenue agency the right to immediately recover the non-payment which may be due by reducing the repayment of IMU receipts. This will be a great mess and will create a great difficulty for local authorities. Simply perhaps it could have been said that the Cassa depositi e prestiti continued in the work of renegotiating the loans, with the assumption of the non-introduction by the Cassa depositi e prestiti, that it must make its own budget and must have its profits to turn to the State, but with accollo directly from the Ministry of the Interior. These are some of the difficulties I have experienced. Article 44 also appoints the Commissioner for the Energy Services Manager (GSE), but I have not heard the reasons for this operation. Then there are amendments by Forza Italia which, before putting their trust in the House, have been accepted. Someone I wanted to argue with. One concerns the extension of the appointment of the control bodies of the Srls and cooperatives in the 2020 budget, which I believe we all agree with. Perhaps this is too short an extension. This involves additional costs, as is the case with so many rules implemented and approved by the majority which do not constitute simplification. Then there is the rule that concerns municipal secretaries, which was transposed through the lowering of the term of the course period (which would last two years from last September, more or less) and the reduction to three months of attendance to courses that can be carried out online or through local meetings. The problem of municipal secretaries for the short-term retirement of many secretaries and for the emptiness of recruitment in the intermediate period is really serious. There is also a rule that I care about and that, perhaps, generates dissent in many of us. I refer to the amendment tabled by my colleagues from Forza Italia to the House on scooters. I think they're a license to kill or get killed. Scooters shall be used on the appropriate runways. It takes compulsory helmets but is only expected under the age of eighteen and must not exceed 50 kilometers per hour. Now, turning with a scooter at a speed of 50 kilometers per hour without a helmet if you are over eighteen years old carries a serious danger to yourself and others. Then there are some amendments which I had tabled and which will not be discussed here, but which I try to sum up because, in my opinion, they are interesting and also signed by other Members. Undersecretary - I say this with respect - I continue to be interested in local authorities and I believe that we could talk - I imagine we will do it on another occasion - about sanctions against the municipalities for non-compliance with the Stability Pact. There are years to be healed. The sanctions are very burdensome. For a municipality of 2,000 inhabitants can reach even 150,000 euros per year. Since the sanctions have been condoned to the Provinces, I would ask that they also be condoned to the Municipalities. I had also asked for the extension of the deadline for the implementation of the deliberations of the Energy Regulatory Authority, Networks and the Environment (ARERA) Nos. 443 and 444 of October 31, 2019, a problem that I believe is also to your attention. I think that the financial plan on the TARI, which is problematic, can be extended. I had also asked for the extension of the deadline for the implementation of Article 4 of the so-called tax decree, on the monitoring of the payment of contributions by the contractor by the contractor. In view of all this, I believe that we could also focus our attention on other points and perhaps a broader debate in the Commission could be useful especially when it comes to decrees such as this which are essentially technical and transversal in nature. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u109	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ruspandini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u110	Mr President, first of all, it would be necessary to say something about the name of the decree in our examination: a thousandprorogues. As Senator La Pietra says, it seems to imply everything and nothing, something indefinite, something that leaves open in the space of variants everything that unfortunately does not serve the nation. Our homeland would need clarity, solidity. On the other hand, we are once again making confusion worse, adding to confusion the chronic use of the vote of confidence, which is why Parliament and the Commission are demeaning the role of the senators in favour of a model which, in our opinion, is going beyond the parliamentary Republic. You see, dear senators, I believe that the very role of institutional scaffolding is at stake - and we can discuss it -. With the constitutionalists, within the various parties and in the newspapers, the reasoning that can change majorities in Parliament without recourse to the institutions and then, at the same time, not allowing parliamentary groups to play their role cannot be flagrant. For us it was very serious, unbecoming not to be able to say ours, not to be able to discuss the amendments, on neurological issues for the life of the nation. I am referring to the safety of schools, the issue of car taxes, the companies that regulate the life of radios and newspapers, as well as the highway system and the regional system of the State Railways. It was mortifying for us. From this point of view, we have already seen two governments. I remember the PD colleagues hurling hard at this method against the 5 Stars. Once they have reached the government, they have done the exact same thing and, once again on the people's skin, yet another agreement is consumed to keep the chair. I believe that all this is extremely humiliating and I believe that Italians should be informed of this way of doing that surpasses abundantly what they listen to in TV talk shows. We are moving towards a series of elucubrations that would like to transform something that is already changing, because this, as it is today, is not a parliamentary Republic. I want to conclude my brief speech by quoting a great philosopher of my country, Marco Tullio Cicero, whom many of you will know. He said the harpinate: "It is necessary to choose after having judged and not to judge after choosing the harpinate." You're leading us to this. I do not have much to add except that silence in the Commissions and in this House is quite eloquent. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u111	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mautone. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u112	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, I wanted to analyse and highlight together with you certain aspects of the health field in Decree-Law 162 extending time limits. In particular, Article 25 sets the deadline of 30 June 2020 for the update of neonatal screenings which, in the new panel, will also include neuromuscular diseases, severe congenital immunodeficiency and lysosomal accumulation diseases. All pathologies, these, rare but of great social impact. In addition, funds and resources for neonatal screening have been increased with €2 million for 2020 and €4 million for 2021. I remember that the neonatal screening program, begun in Italy in the seventies and eighties, with tests for phenylketonuria, congenital hypothyroidism and cystic fibrosis, subsequently regulated by Law No 167 of August 2016, at the first signature of Senator Taverna, provides that every new born in Italy must be subjected, within a few hours of birth, to extended or enlarged neonatal screening, including other metabolic genetic diseases. With the new panel planned we have a further step forward, increasing the number of pathologies that can be detected with a single examination, with consequent reduction of costs, an early diagnosis and the possibility to establish an effective replacement therapy, able to open new perspectives for pathologies with prognosis so far infausta. Another aspect that I would like to highlight is Article 25-e, which allocates EUR 71.5 million in 2020-2021 in order to introduce free national screening to identify people potentially suffering from hepatitis C, so as to eliminate and eradicate the HCV virus completely. Experimentally, for the years 2020-2021 is guaranteed a free screening, intended for those born in 1969 to 1989, to the subjects followed by the public services for drug addiction (SERT), as well as to the persons imprisoned: all this with the aim of preventing, eliminating and eradicating the hepatitis C virus. Today with the new innovative drugs it is possible to cure and heal from hepatitis C, which has always caused frequent cirrhosis and liver cancer. Recognizing the so-called submerged, that is those who are carriers of the virus and are asymptomatic, is crucial because this situation still affects about 300,000 people in Italy. This will allow, not only to initiate, once identified, positive HCV subjects at regional reference centres for appropriate resolving therapies, but, at the same time, will allow to interrupt the chain of spread and contagion more or less latent that, despite all hygiene and sterilization rules, still today causes the lack of complete eradication of HCV infection in the population. Convinced of the importance and need of prevention as a strong point for the protection of public health, I believe this measure is extremely useful. In this regard, I had already presented earlier the more organic bill No. 1581, which provides for the possibility of more extensive screening for the whole population, capable of including wider groups of citizens and the possibility of bringing out in a widespread way the so-called submerged, including more complete information on the spread, frequency and possibility of healing HCV infection. Finally, I would like to mention the EUR 2 million increase for 2020 for the fund, already established by the 2018 Budget Act, which is intended to assist children with cancer. Maximum attention to these children, who fight and fight day after day for these serious pathologies, together with their families and the health team who assist them and need, as well as adequate medical care, assistance and psychological support to overcome their difficult battle. These are just some of the measures contained in Decree-Law 162, concerning the health field, capable of representing a strong signal of attention to everyday problems, and which, in a concrete way, prove with programmatic foresight and appropriate economic investments to give concrete answers to improve the quality of life of Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u113	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take the opportunity to highlight a number of issues. In the first place, the decree-law at our examination takes a very rapid process of conversion and at different times would certainly have been blocked by a flood of amendments and perhaps would not have even come to an end. If it comes to an end and is converted it is also due to the fact that there is an attitude on the part of the opposition groups that tends to put the next decree-law at the centre of attention, during the debate this afternoon in the Chamber of Deputies, which is the one concerning the coronavirus and the procedures to be put in place, thus speeding up the work to the maximum. I believe that this must be acknowledged, given that very often they deal with whole pages of newspapers to argue that there must be no controversy. In addition to that there are the behaviors, which are the ones that matter in politics, of which I believe we must take note. This does not mean that this decree-law - as my colleagues have already said - objectively makes the skin cling, because it is not well known what it is. It's called a thousandprorogues, but it's actually an omnibus. My colleague, Mr Perosino, rightly mentioned the issue of Autostrade's mess; you have to tell me if you can deal with such a subject, which we are always talking about only for tweets or newspapers, by sticking a rule into the milleproroghe. What I would like to say is that in these extensions all the nodes that have already been highlighted by the opposition forces when certain acts were approved come to light. Let me give you a few examples: the insolvency code, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 14 of January 12, 2019, was approved in a truly becero way, because there was the budget and the so-called scrambled law involved, and it became a torment, because it became a cost to businesses and caused a lot of problems. In fact, here we find traces of the extensions. Then, when it was launched and when the Minister was loudly asked at that time to assess the crisis of enterprise, all the opinions that were given by the Commissions were cleared and it was a mistake, because today we find ourselves with the unsolved nodes, which become simply extensions for the auditors and the entry into force of some points. Another node is that of the class action, an approved and matrix legislation mostly pentastellated: even in that case it was clearly said that it was absolutely unsuitable for certain aspects both for consumers and for businesses and even there were words in the wind. Today we find the trace, because it is further extended. Then there is the question of the honorary magistrates that was dealt with in a thousand ways. The question of honorary magistrates, dealt with in a thousand ways. It has been said in the Committee on Justice, in all sauces, that this issue must be put on the agenda. Forgotten here and there, between one measure and another, this has also become an extension. And it can also be a system. Make a mess. After that, you're told. No one - I mean the majority - does anything to solve them, but, in the end, there is an extension. So we postpone the problem, which is not that we did not want to deal with it, but that it was created, because inadequate laws were passed. Let us not talk about justice. I have already said something about this, but two issues in particular I would like to highlight. There are still about 700 suitable subjects, from the famous ranking of the competition for judicial assistants, for which the majority in the House rejected the amendments and simply approved an agenda. Since we all know that there is a shortage of staff and we have a splendid Minister, who every day tells us that, instead, he assumes everything and more, the issue of suitable judicial assistants, at least here, could find a solution with reference to the validity of the ranking. But let me give you another example. I am sorry that the Minister is not here. Anyway, the government is here. But do you remember when Minister Bonafede said that, with the decree simplifications, he would solve everything and more, even for what was the problem of prisons? He would have made the prisons in four ballets, in fact, through the decree simplifications, so, suddenly, the DAP was given the opportunity to make the evaluations immediately, the projects immediately, the constructions immediately. Do you know what happened to this spectacular measure? It ended up in an extension, in the sense that, of course, all this sprint was not there, but it was planned to be extended until 31 December 2022. Just to understand how they are then addressed, in concrete terms, issues. I repeat: in politics, in the end, behaviors and extensions always count, in my opinion, behaviors with reference to the flagrant intentions, which have always been translated into walls by the majority, in particular for the area I am dealing with, which is the area of justice. This is not just a trade mark measure, as a colleague has rightly said, or a mess, as another colleague has rightly said. It is also a trace of the inability to meet the standards. Because it is not enough to legislate well: and that already seems to me to be a problem. It is also necessary for legislation to be effective. Here we have no effect, we have extensions; or, if it is okay, decrees that are never known whether or not they will be implemented. We know very well, in fact, that our world is full of decrees provided for by the rules and then not implemented. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u115	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u116	Mr President, in a moment I feel that I have returned to the Regional Council of Umbria where, together with my colleague, Mr Modena, we have compared our ideas many other times. Among other things, the number of people present seems to recall more than that of a Regional Council. But it's okay. Mr Malpezzi, we have seen you stand almost a thousand times on the benches of the Senate, like a valkyrie, to protest against the Government, which put trust in trusts, which cut the time of discussions in the Commission and which did not allow senators to be senators, reducing them to mere paperweights. You were against all these things and then this fate leads you to be present in this House. That's her. I mean, almost some kind of nemesis. So, we're not gonna be too mean to say you're making a mess. We will leave this task somewhat to the political commentators. We'll leave it to those who look back, even a little from the outside. But what can I say? We have the combined arrangement of a thousand-pronged measure - which, already in its title, for someone like me, who has a more noble and totally different idea of politics, seems to remember the last days of Venice, when things were done in bulk, to give the idea that there was a Government - with the reposition of the question of trust, which makes it impossible to reason on a decree-law, which by its definition would need the contribution of everyone. As a multi-pronged measure in theory, there should be little policy and much more administration of urgency, deadlines and compliance. This is also absolutely impossible. It is therefore a measure full of stuff, which constitutes a kind of marchittificio - I feel I define it as such, perhaps with little respect - but which paradoxically increases resources as well. Mr President, I do not understand how the offices of the House of Deputies have been able to consider some parts of the measure that increase resources acceptable. What extension is the increase in resources - although commendable, it is clear - for the International Agency for the Prevention of Blindness (IAPB), for an extraordinary mobile screening project, which pays attention to the problems of visual impairments? The resources are increased from EUR 250,000 to EUR 450,000: we are obviously scraping the fund of the measure (not the barrel, but the measure). This rule increases resources and so what does it have to do with the thousand extensions? It is quite clear that this is the umpteenth measure that throws a little bit of things there, that you have laboriously divided, making one to me and a you, which is then the only logic that keeps the Government standing and together: the only glue that is not noble, because then you have the noble one, which is the excuse of the President of the Republic, that you can not even name and therefore I do not mention it. The less noble glue is to try to stay there, to do some things, but everything has a limit and should have a physiological boundary. Everything should also have attention and respect for the macro-economic and micro-economic framework of a nation that is really giving up important pieces of competitiveness and sovereignty. Mr President, with regard to all this, the position of the Brothers of Italy Group is well known and Mr Calandrini, who followed the measure in the Commission, will express it better than I do in an explanation of vote. For my part, for the part concerning health and which I followed in the 12th Standing Commission, I have to say that there are aspects that are also acceptable, that we would have voted quietly. Colleagues, as a whole of a measure that has 40 or 50 measures, even by mistake something right can sometimes do it. The logic, also in this case, is that of spot measures, by way of derogation or extension: all things that are the exact opposite of what would be needed, especially with regard to the issue of health. Everyone knows and we all know that about a year ago the 40th anniversary of the approval of the law establishing the national health service was used. There is therefore both the theme of recurrence and the major problems facing the national health service, which I am not here to summarize, because there is a risk of obviously going outside the scope of the measure (and I see that the microphone is starting to flash) so that the time available to me is about to end. These problems would have suggested, suggested and determined the urgency, Mr President and Mr representative of the Government, of a system measure that addresses the issue, perhaps even starting from the emergency that we are experiencing, but do so seriously and not with a set of commercial measures, ranging from the recruitment of the Ministry to the funds for blindness, and who has more, until it is too late, so that before we go home we will at least conclude something. Colleagues, we hope we expect better times. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u117	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u118	Mr President, I greet the many members of the Government whom I congratulate on their presence in this House. Colleagues, at this moment our country risks the ridicule because the Government is facing the emergency health in a superficial way and the consequences unfortunately are expected dramatic: it is already estimated a loss of 30 billion euros and the economic difficulties are under the eyes of all. Now you claim to solve the problems of our country and our enterprises with the thousandprorogations decree in question, but the problems are only postponed, because this in our home, in my part, is simply called hypocrisy. Since you are totally inadequate to deal with the priorities of this country, we must make an effort - as my colleagues have already said - and change the name of this measure: let's also call it millepasticci, omnibus, millepause, more than milleproroghe, because it is the certification of the inability of your policy in not being able to give answers to the Italians. In fact, those who extend do not know how to build, do not know how to make strategies, do not know how to decline social demands and re-elaborate them in lasting political projects. Look in the mirror from time to time and you will be able to read very clearly the description of what you are, that is, absolutely incapable. With this measure we had the opportunity to repair your damage, but the irresponsible attitude of this Commission for the umpteenth time will not allow us to do so. We have seen the huts and the obstruction that you have done on your own, a continuous division on important issues and issues that are not upbuilding. You have even divided yourselves for the division of the very few resources that have been put on the table by the present decree thousandprorogates. Let us then make it clear to all Italians who are the real jackals: it is not certainly us who are sitting on this side of the House. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Ezra Pound said that incompetence manifests itself by the use of too many words. It is true that they are all the ones you have used to make us digest this shameful measure. On the other hand, you lack the true, real, sincere words to support businesses, workers, families, young people and the elderly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In Italy there are tens of thousands of companies in the agro-food sector and not a single measure has been foreseen by the Government in the thousandprorogues for their protection, for the support and their valorization. We have heard you talk about new green deal, but tax deductions to support farmers and contain the impact of climate change have done nothing, there is no euro, yet our agri-food sector is worth 210 billion, equal to 12% of GDP. We fill our mouths to say that in every television show, then farmers and farmers are left alone. For example, florovivaism is a top sector of Made in Italy, with a production value of 2.5 billion, with 27,000 companies and more than 100,000 engaged in the cultivation of over 2,000 plant species. This sector would need structural measures, not tips. In addition, immediate action was needed to abolish the plastic tax and the [[sugar tax (Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group)]] On the other hand, you insist that you fight against companies that are forced to leave our country in order to produce cheaply abroad, with negative consequences on investment, production and labour in many Italian regions, some of which have unemployment rates that exceed 20%. Brexit will also bring down our agri-food exports, for at least 3.5 billion euros, and above all wine, fresh and processed fruit and vegetables, such as tomato products, but also pasta, cheese and olive oil: a huge damage, which should be compensated by the introduction of forms of refreshment of damages suffered by companies and by new investments for the defence and enhancement of Made in Italy; instead nothing, absolute zero in this case too. It's a shame. I would like to focus on one specific point: the acquisition of anti-mafia documentation for agricultural land using European funds, as conceived, continues to paralyse and penalise the paying agencies system and penalise small farms. Here, too, we were expecting in the thousand-year decree a measure that has never arrived. There is an ongoing economic crisis, which began at the end of 2019 - we are aware of this - that will worsen in 2020 due to the economic effects of coronavirus. But this government prefers to turn to the other side, look back rather than look forward; a government that does not recognize the value of a strategic sector such as that of agriculture and, instead of encouraging and supporting the agricultural world, is fierce on those who cultivate our land, on those who value traditions and food and wine, on those who invest time and money. Remember that they are doing this for an agriculture of excellence, healthy, green and competitive, vis-à-vis Europe and beyond. Already, Europe: it is worth remembering that as Italy in 2018 we were net contributors in Europe for over 5 billion euros and in 2017 for over 3.5 billion euros. If we add up the data from 2014 to 2018, we exceed the 18 billion net contribution, that is the value of a point of GDP, what we would need today, and they are not change. That is why Europe is requested to return the surplus to us at a time of difficulty. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We should read these things in the provisions. Yet, the government does not move on this issue and once again lets the mannaja fall on the weakest producers. Instead of putting the country's interests ahead of your thirst for power, you sold your soul to stay glued to the chairs. This is yet another missed opportunity to meet companies and not make Italians pay for your bad choices. Until the end we trusted in a constructive dialogue and hoped that we could find a common sense solution with this Government, a series of extensions, in order to protect farmers, with the appropriations for companies damaged by bad weather, with the introduction of duties, in favour of projects against food waste and for the construction of new plants also in the agroenergy; precisely on this issue I heard authoritative representatives of the majority say that it had resolved for small plants up to 300 kilowatts, to produce renewable energy in agriculture. Well, unfortunately, they are unrealizable, because those who know the matter know that the farmer authorized to plant is required to use 80% of his own production products, which is impossible. The supply chain contracts for the acquisition of the product have been abolished and in the end those plants remain in ruins or cannot be realized. The questions to carry on the new plants are counted on the tip of one hand's fingers, to be magnanimous, because maybe they are even less. I come from a land that unfortunately for this Government is bordered: that part of the South of Piedmont, in particular of the province of Cuneo, greatly penalized at an infrastructural level, in which the yards, like the Asti-Cuneo, are blocked for more than eight years. Think that until eight months ago those who now rule and preside over the Ministry of Infrastructure protested with a garrison in front of the prefecture of Cuneo because when we were in the government in a few months we did not unlock the yards; passed them to the government, nothing happened at all. The same reasoning applies to the Tenda bis: for three years we have been waiting for the works already contracted by Anas to start again. It is a fundamental connection with the South of Piedmont, with the neighbouring Liguria and with the South of France. And the same is true of the crossing points, where our articulated cars and road hauliers suffer absurd bans from France, and then see French competition come to us without bans. The maintenance of the areas is completely absent. There is absolutely nothing about all this in the measure under discussion. We have asked a loud voice to appoint a Commissioner to examine the problems related to the Piedmontese infrastructures on the model of Genoa, but nothing, nothing, nothing. It's a shame. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is the first day of Lent, Ash Wednesday: for all Christians it is an important day, marking the start of forty days that will lead us to Holy Easter. We entrust the whole of Italy, through this House - especially those who suffer, the sick and those who commit themselves to the health of all - to the good God and the Mother of divine providence, so that they overcome the human inability and guide all of us and those who govern us to common sense and responsibility, since, considering how things are going in recent times, they are both missing. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u119	She is registered to speak Senator Tiraboschi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u120	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, undersecretary Malpezzi, I shall confine myself once again to some consideration of technological innovation which - you know, Undersecretary - is my fixed nail. Given the measures on technological innovation in the measure, I wondered why they included them in a decree-milleproroghe law, because they did not dedicate an ad hoc bill to such an important matter on which we go to bet truly the growth of our country. You all know that the change in the industrial paradigm sees technologies and central services in the evolution, progress, growth of our GDP, as well as the environment. Both technology and environment are the two reference points of the 2021-2027 programming of the European Union. As you all know, for the events of Brexit and the considerable difficulties encountered in starting the European Parliament, there will be delays in the 2021-2027 programming. These important measures on digitisation will probably have fallen to the ground with important appropriations - we already know that - in 2022. Therefore, we would have had all the time - this Government, moreover, has instituted the Ministry of Innovation - in order to be able to devote ourselves to a serious planning of all the activities that concern not the infrastructures (i.e. the telecommunications and everything that revolves around you), but everything that goes under the name of immaterial economy. It is very important to focus programming well, which can only be medium- to long-term, on this type of economy, which is already very difficult for those in the workplace to perceive. I'm not clearly referring to engineers and professional computer scientists, because they get there first. But beware: these technical figures must also be directed on the basis of a framework, that is, of a great framework that we, as politicians, must know how to draw to give them guidelines and guidelines. The history of innovation was born from Agid, with the Government Monti of 2012, and it has already been eight years. If you go to the Agid website, see what it needs to do as an operating arm. But nobody gives any indication, and I mean politics, and therefore Parliament, together with the Government, with a job that needs to be shared, in a very strong way. As I said yesterday in my speech, today, alone, we are no longer going anywhere, but cohesion and cooperation are super-necessary. On a strategic issue such as this, the Government should submit a plan to Parliament as soon as possible, so that Parliament too can make its contribution. We must not, therefore, find ourselves faced with small measures in a thousand-pronged decree which - I am aware of this - was urgent with regard to a series of small measures which, in due course, had to be dealt with. However, on a subject such as this, I did not really expect that. (14.46) (Tirabochi follow). In order to draw attention to the fact that we must really work together - as I said yesterday - beyond political belongings, the model of the triple propeller, made by the State and the territorial institutions, at various levels, by universities and businesses, is no longer sufficient. The very strong economic crisis of the last twenty years - let me say it, it is useless to hide it, and we cannot even say that it has occurred only in the last five or seven - has bullied out two actors: on the one hand, the community, with all its intermediate bodies; on the other, the environment and future generations. I therefore return to the first theme: the environment is central; we must invest in future generations, with a very important training process, hybridizing them with the others. This is fundamental: I don't have children but, like those who have children, I know perfectly well that today the kids are banging on their mobile phones. But we must be careful: they do not have that culture of government of the complex processes that have instead our generations and, therefore, the process of hybridization, which is really complicated, must find guidelines that clearly pass through digital, ecosystem and not vertical formation. In this technological innovation plan we must also start to indicate the measures that we want to take to correctly alphabetize children, I do not already say from elementary, but even, if not from the nest, from the kindergarten. And this clearly needs to be brought into the universities. That is why yesterday I was provocatively wondering why the Ministry of Innovation did not end up in the Ministry of University and Scientific Research, which then has to work very closely with Mise. If one wants to foresee an ad hoc ministry, it is also fine, but I cannot understand what the mission of the poor minister Pisano, who has no resources or portfolio, will be. If we go to the site, we see that one of its main objectives is to guarantee digital technologies and services in society correctly (following the principles of justice, fairness and maximum democracy). This is certainly a correct principle, but I see - for example - that nothing is being done about digital literacy. I don't want to make you laugh, but when I talk about artificial intelligence in the territory from which I come (Ivrea's, Canavese's and Olivetti's), which is central to the new paradigm of economic development, I am often asked to explain what it is, whether a black box or a white cloud. On this I really move a recommendation: we must pay attention - we are seeing it, and I do not want to make parallels, with the case of the coronavirus of these days - because coordination on communication, which also passes through a strategic activity of digital literacy in communities, is absolutely fundamental. Otherwise, the problem will break out in our hands, because digital, if not governed, ends up being far worse than globalization, another great ungoverned phenomenon. Literacy must also be clearly extended to all stakeholders, especially companies: we talk a lot about Made in Italy and then we do not enhance this brand expressed by SMEs, giving aid. Do you know that most small and medium-sized enterprises are made up of 10-15 workers? But do you think that such a small organization can set up a digital department? Therefore, strategically, in the innovation plan we should think about digital services to be provided to small and medium-sized enterprises, because they are not able to do it themselves, they are not capable. Yet today those are really pocket multinationals that, with a click, helped by a government plan, could go to the other side of the world and increase the volume of exports. Finally, literacy must also be done in politics. I want to say this provocatively, even if it is fundamental for many of us - starting with me who, with great humility, approached these issues - to be able to direct and control. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u121	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u122	Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators, with this measure we intend to convert a decree-law which aims to allow private individuals, institutions and businesses to benefit from an extension of time limits on a series of measures that characterize daily life in our country. I hear a lot of criticism, almost as if we were surprised that it is a generally all-embracing measure that comes at this stage of the country's political and administrative life, but I think it has been so for almost twenty years. And this must probably cause us to reflect on our political and administrative system and not so much on the fact that we are proposing this measure today, as has been the case in previous years. It is likely that in the political and administrative system there are difficulties in dealing with the deadlines that many legislative measures provide for. This probably means that there are too many rules and some of them get confused. This means that perhaps we have a confused bureaucratic system and it is a little everyone's fault if it has not been simplified in recent years. In fact, it should be our mission to try to simplify it. In the same way, we should not be surprised that, as the rhythms of administrative and political life are today, we now have a de facto monocameralism. We complain cyclically - this is for me the first parliamentary term - that one branch of Parliament deals with the measures very quickly, and often cannot go into them, or discuss the amendments, as is the case today. However, this is a problem relating to the functioning of our parliamentary and government system. And so it was in this legislature, under the previous government. I remember the draft budget of two years ago, arrived on 22 or 23 December at the Senate, while this year, after being examined in the Senate, he arrived at the House at the last minute. This is, therefore, a more general system theme that we should address, perhaps reflecting on past years, when some reforms could give signs of change to the country. I don't want to go back to this because we don't have to make the amarcord of the history of recent years, but this must lead perhaps to some reflection. The measure under consideration does not solve all the problems of the country, but with it the majority introduces some positive elements, starting from the very first articles, with the stabilization of the precarious of the public administration, which is an important signal. I am referring to the extension to 31 December 2021 for the stabilisation of those who have future employment relations with the State, subject to the condition that three years of work, even non-continuous, have been carried out with time contracts. Not only the time limit for stabilisation, but also the time limit for fulfilling the requirements, which has been moved to 31 December 2020, are deferred forward. I quote the extension for the turnover, which will cover not only the workers of the public administration, but also the important workers of the Police Corps and the Fire Departments; for the latter two subjects it will also be possible to derogate from the rules on turnover. It is also important to increase working units in the administrative staff of the Ministry of Justice, which should allow an attempt to eliminate the backwardness of prosecutions for the execution of criminal sentences. There are therefore important initiatives in relation to the world of work and, above all, to public administration. I remember, then, also for important interventions in favour of those areas whose populations in the last twenty years have suffered because of the earthquake. The state of emergency for earthquakes in the province of Campobasso, probably the most dated earthquake in recent years, is extended by three years. The state of emergency for the earthquake of Emilia is extended to 2021; the deadline for entrepreneurs to quantify the damage suffered is extended to 31 December 2020, with regard to the earthquake of L'Aquila. With regard to the 2016 earthquake, the exemption from stamp and registration tax for applications, contracts and documents submitted to the public administration is extended to 31 December 2020. I remember the exemption from taxes for the renewal of mortgages on properties declared unworkable; the contributions to the municipalities with more than 30,000 inhabitants, always in the places of the earthquake of 2016-2017, for urgent interventions of maintenance of roads and municipal infrastructures. These are not small things; in this measure there are not only small brands, as someone has said, which have used a term that I consider not very appropriate to the measures that are approved in these classrooms. On the other hand, there are important attentions to fundamental sectors of the state and to citizens. I would like to stress the importance of local authorities. We always talk about abandoned municipalities, and I also speak as a former mayor. I believe that important efforts are beginning to be made in the measures. The deadline for the start of work in municipalities receiving contributions for energy efficiency interventions is extended to 30 June (the previous deadline was 31 October 2019). Many municipalities had not been able to start work; in small administrative situations there are, in fact, problems of shortage of staff and technical offices and, therefore, putting in place tenders and the design becomes in some cases really complicated and opportunities are lost. Then there is the reopening of the term for the contributions that the Municipalities can ask for for the definitive and executive planning of the security of the territory: also in this case, often, for the small communal realities it is very complicated to realize projects and find the funds to entrust the executive and definitive planning and often, despite the contributions acquired from the notices, it is not possible in time to reach the definitive planning. It is also important that in the thousandprorogations there are initiatives related to the liquidity of the Municipalities; for the municipalities in failure and foretold the installments are delayed in order to be able to return the advances of liquidity of the State. There is also a reduction in the debt burden for Municipalities, Provinces and Metropolitan Cities through the possibility of restructuring loans, which the Municipalities had in their belly at 30 June 2019 and which will end after 2024. It is a breath of oxygen, because often those resources that the municipalities have to allocate to pay loans and interest payments are taken away from the community, the maintenance of roads, safety, public lighting and the social system, especially with regard to school support and all activities in the municipal administrations. I mean, I think there are some important signs. There are measures concerning companies; 6.5 million for support to Made in Italy, 50 million for the internationalization of companies, another very important issue. There are appropriations for health, both for staff, and for the financing of other activities that I am not referring to here, since they have been mentioned in a rather detailed way in other interventions. There are measures that go in the direction of increasing environmental sustainability (green provisions). There will be an extension to 2020 of contributions to incentives for the purchase of hybrid or electric motor vehicles; the extension of the green bonus and all bonuses for renovations and deductions for gardens and so on. The list of measures would still be very long, but I will stop here. The measure - as I said at the beginning of the intervention - certainly does not solve all the problems of the country, but it is certainly an injection of confidence for the citizens, for some sections of society and for the entrepreneurial system, in order to be able to have some breathing space at least in the implementation of some initiatives that the law allows and that, however, the terms too tight would have affected. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI, M5S and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u123	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u124	Mr President, the majority, as has been the case on other occasions, wear their seat belt with a vote of confidence. I would call this behavior an act of political arrogance with a tombal effect on the parliamentary debate, but let us go by order. From the House the text under examination arrived armored. It is clear that what is contained in Law No 1729 is not all wrong, but it is also true that it could be improved. And if there is - and this is the case - a shower of amendments by political forces in a number, if not mistaken, of about 600, it means that the measure could be better and, instead, it will not be. Brothers of Italy - for example - has tabled 130 amendments and I will refer to some of them later. Believe me: these are not bizarre or abstract issues, but rather concrete needs or regulatory gaps to be filled. As has already been said, the so-called multi-pronge covers a wide range of subjects; it is so broad that it includes the most diverse areas. Honestly, we must say that this is not the first time that we have used the instrument of milleproroghe; indeed - and I stress this - a systematic use is being made of this method so much as to decline what we might call a customary right. This, however, does not justify it either in the method or in the substance. Ladies and gentlemen, this is in fact a wrong legislative approach, a child and the result of an inability to govern and of non-compliance with the deadlines laid down by law. In short, it is a delay for those who have not been able to manage times and ways. It is a sort of - gamble - of legislative pardon, but let us return to the basic question. Precisely the vice of heterogeneous content contradicts the principle due to homogeneity and, again, the heterogeneous matter contradicts the principle invoked by the decree of urgency. In fact, ordinary legislative measures would be needed to modulate the deadlines and to meet the deadlines themselves. Again: between merit and method this legislative practice, which - let us remember - also the Constitutional Court has stigmatized negatively, helps to introduce an imbalance in the relationship between the Government and Parliament, because it participates in a degradation of Parliament, its role, its tasks and its legislative function. In short, Parliament is less and less the place of decision and debate. We are becoming a sort of letterhead, of vidimators and ratifyers, especially with regard to notifications in international matters, while passing over the head - I mean - omnibus decrees - as in the case under consideration - with derogations to proceed and decree of urgency. Even in the preliminary ruling presented by Forza Italia, which we have shared, it has been correctly pointed out that the measure under discussion has a vice of constitutional legitimacy: it lacks the extraordinary requirements of necessity and urgency. As was said, it is, in short, an omnibus of heterogeneity. The Group of Brothers of Italy has tabled 130 amendments and three agendas, unfortunately rejected in the first Commission. We would love to illustrate them one by one, just to talk a little bit about politics, but that won't be possible. Forgive me if I take the luxury of mentioning, albeit hastily, only some of the subjects covered by our amendments, as other Members have already done. These are issues, ladies and gentlemen, which are of interest to the country, which are of interest to those outside this House. I refer, for example, to the enormous problem of the valorisation of the fire department's body and the way in which the resources allocated to them by the last budget law are used, as well as the extension of recruitment in the public administration; the postponement of the suspension of the extension of provision in favour of publishing companies; the state-owned maritime concessions, the motorway concessions and the amendments in favour of pupils with disabilities and the accompaniment for the disabled. In short, there are so many amendments that we have also tabled in the field of taxation. I can't even quote them as a list. Numerous are those related to the world of Defense, the Armed Forces, the Forces of the Order, not to mention the sliding of the rankings of many competitions related to the Police Forces, the Guardia di Finanza and the Forest Corps of the State. I quote only one by way of example: the competition of 26 May 2017 for the recruitment of 893 students of state police officers excluded a posteriori from the ranking; a commitment made that has not been maintained: at least that could be done with the decree milleproroghe. In conclusion, I could continue the list, but it wouldn't help. However, these are - believe me - specific requests coming from sectors that represent the backbone of the country system, or from vulnerable social groups that policy should include and support. And then, Government, majority, proceed like this, with a vote of confidence. You approve of your plethora and leave everything else out of it. But there is one thing, fortunately, that you will not be able to extend, namely the holding of this Government, which will not have a thousand days of legislature as you wish. We hope that the Italians will be able to vote as soon as possible, recomposing the dramatic divide between politics and the people. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u125	Senator Collina is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u126	Mr President, I have a flaw in remembering what I have said in previous years. Since this is not the first time I have spoken about a so-called thousand-pronged decree-law, I try to take a step forward with respect to the custom that we cannot change, no matter how many attempts can be made. The memory returns to me last year, when the so-called milleproroghe decree was incorporated with an amendment in the budget law. Last year a thousand-pronged decree was not discussed, because it was in the budget law that was passed in the House and then in the Senate without any changes. We are therefore faced with a return to the way in which it has taken place in recent years and we are never able to recognize the underlying problem. In order to tackle the underlying problem, if we really want to bring Parliament and Parliament back to the centre, we must recognise that, if we are going to proceed today with a sort of alternating monocameralism, in which a law can only be dealt with in one branch of Parliament and then it is up to the other branch to do the same thing and serve colleagues the already prepared and cooked dish, it is because there is a system problem. In the last parliamentary term we tried to tackle the problem of the system, which is resolved by considering the reforms of the system, which look at how to make Parliament work better; how to review the procedures of the laws that must be examined in Parliament and how to reorganize the work in a different and different balanced relationship between the Government and Parliament. On the one hand, in fact, there is the Government, which needs to intervene and carry out them in times that are not biblical; on the other, there is Parliament, with the right expectation of being able to discuss and make a meaningful and effective contribution to the rules that pass through these classrooms. This is the theme. When we talk about a thousandpronges, we must bear in mind that if we are all to take a step forward together in the direction I mentioned earlier, we must address certain issues. I believe that as a Democratic Party, but also as a majority, we have started to get things in line today, starting with the constitutional reform of reducing the number of Members. The reflection we have taken together was to say that, if the reduction is okay, we must now reconstruct the system with its consistency that looks at a balance with respect to the territory and, therefore, the system of representation, and, on the other hand, at the centrality of Parliament in its relationship with the Government, and therefore with the legislative procedures that must be put in place. I believe that this is the awareness that we must have today with the background that we have of the last legislature, with the attempts that have gone down, but with a new and constructive approach that we are putting in place and that I believe it has the opportunity to develop positively in the current legislature. The other fundamental problem we are faced with is that we are not able to tackle in an organic way the decisive issues for the country. By now the budget law and the milleproroghe represent the two fundamental passages, the two trains that pass with security and certainty and that we use to go to affect the issues of the country. Beyond saying how bad the thousand-pronge is, the thousands of amendments we all table, starting with the minority, and that will mean that there are real issues that need to be addressed. We must be able to do this in an organic way, with the legislative measures that deal with this issue. I think our government program puts this opportunity in front of us. We have highlighted some very important issues, such as the green new deal. Well, it is not with amendments to the budget law or to the milleproroga that the green new deal is dealt with in an organic way. We must have the capacity to put legislative measures in place in agreement with the Government and with the parliamentary groups in this direction. There has been some drooling in the milleprorogues in this respect, because amendments have been tabled on issues which should instead be dealt with in an organic way (I think, for example, on the subject of energy); many aspects have been dealt with in a positive way, however. As President of the 12th I conclude by thinking more specifically about health: I think that the work done in this legislature within the Commission - I have no difficulty in recognizing this - has led to a growing awareness of some issues that are then recognized bipartisanly by the same members of the Commission through the contents of the thousandprorogations under consideration, and I quote them quickly. We have found the funds to increase the salaries of doctors, working on the recovery of RIA (individual age pay), which is a well-known theme; we have allocated funds for neonatal screening and we have allowed IRCCS and therefore research institutes to invest and hire staff; we have addressed the issue of animal testing in a timely manner, continuing on the road that had rightly been identified in recent years. Then there is the theme of residents and specializations, which has been addressed in various ways, but always in connection with and alignment with the Health Pact that was signed by the Government with the State-Regions Conference. There was therefore a very positive concerted work which immediately found, in the first useful measure, the possibility of expressing concretely the positive contents that had been shared. It is clear that there are urgent issues and having this debate at the moment certainly recalls other aspects, but we are dealing with problems that pertain to our health system: I am thinking of the difficulty of following up the turnover in our health companies and in our hospitals of the primary specialists, an issue that has been addressed in various ways and positively. There is a daily routine of health management in Italy that has found an answer in this measure. There are other issues that have been mentioned by all my colleagues in the majority and I do not stress others, but I believe that the work we are doing - and this is the appeal I appeal to the majority - must go in the direction of building organic measures on the various issues that we consider important for the future of the country. Let us go in this direction; now with the milleproroghe, together with the budget law, we have given answers which I consider to be complete overall, for what we could do at this juncture and for the things we had imagined with the budget law, of which this decree-law represents a completion. Now we have to start giving more organic answers. Once this emergency phase has been completed, I think it is necessary to start working in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u127	Senator Arrigoni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u128	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, we do not like this one thousand-pronge decree: it has become an omnibus, a second budget law; on the contrary, it has become a tip-law that satisfies so many appetites with the distribution of gifts that add up to 15 million euros. The decree had to be an opportunity to take some important measures for the earthquake communities of Central Italy, but you rejected our amendments. For example, you have denied the extension of the income exemption of unworkable buildings for the purpose of calculating the ISEE; the extension and reopening of the urban free zone; the extension of the suspension deadlines for notification of payment folders. The rejection of these amendments and even of a simple agenda represents a slap on the face of the earthquakes and certifies how the attention to the areas affected by the earthquake has fallen with this wretched Giallorossi government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Above all, the extension of the suspension of records was of vital importance for companies that have been struggling for years with the credit crunch. Especially in the Marches, after the failure of the Bank of Marche, traders, craftsmen and industrialists demanded that they still have oxygen for the crater economy and you have irresponsibly denied it. The failure to extend the suspension of folder terms is already leading to the blocking of payments by the creditor companies of the public administration and many companies, not having the DURC in order, are not able to work and invoice. We have gathered the alarm cry of Confindustria and the representatives of the other employers' associations; unfortunately you have remained deaf because closed in this building. You then slapped the earthquake victims with a second slap: in addition to the nullity of the decree, in these same days you appointed as the new commissioner for reconstruction another politician of the PD race, this time Abruzzo after the first two Emilians, in place of a competent technician from Marche. And I remember that the Marches fall two-thirds of the crater. You of the Movimento 5 Stars have sold to the Democratic Party Professor Farabollini, geologist and university professor, among the few to have shone in capacity among those proposed by you, as evidenced by the appreciation addressed to him by the many technicians and professionals who for over three and a half years have worked hard in the crater. Shame on the shames, you sacrificed it with the complicity and applause of the Gotha of the Marche Democratic Party, of the parliamentarians of the Regional Council of Ceriscioli and also of several mayors of the Marches, who, certainly unaware of the extent of this bad choice, rejoiced for the change of the Commissioner who, to the empty promises of an acceleration in the reconstruction and a central role of the mayors, instead will consolidate, on the one hand, a laxist attitude towards the earthquake victims and, on the other hand, will build a powerful central apparatus of reference to the Democratic Party, where the territories will be cut off from the decisions. Shame! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The decree was also an opportunity to take decisions on energy. On the one hand, we are satisfied because the League has been decisive for the approval of the norm that introduces in experimental way the collective self-consumption and the renewable energy communities, where families and, above all, enterprises will be able to become the so-called prosumers, that is producers and at the same time consumers, with a sort of production and consumption of electricity to zero kilometer, with less waste and more savings on the electricity bill. On the other hand, there is no shortage of negative decisions you have taken to get your hands on the energy sector. Without precedents, the government's decision to commission by decree a state-owned company, the GSE, the energy service manager, is very serious. Evidently, your Giallorossi Government wants to get its hands on a society that promotes renewables and energy efficiency and that leads a group that can bill 30 billion euros a year, of which 15, half, are in the management of incentives for renewables. Here's what the so-called green new deal, the green turn of the Giallorossi government, is for: to manage a financial lung with a lot of money that Italians pay with the electricity bill paying the general system charges. So you, who are majority in this palace and minority in the country, expand the already huge perimeter of the next appointments. In addition to those of ENI, Enel, Terna, Leonardo and other companies, you will also appoint presidents, managing directors and advisors, not only of the GSE, but also of the three companies of this group: the Single Purchaser, the Energy Market Manager and the RSE (Energy System Research). Another unfortunate decision you have taken is the extension of the Sustainable Energy Transition Plan for suitable areas for another six months: the Pitesai, better known as Trivelle Block. Given that Italy is energy dependent from abroad for 76 percent, which is up to 93 percent for gas supply, your decision is absurd and irresponsible. It is clear that, in this case, the Democratic Party has fallen into the blackmail of the Movimento 5 Stars and the hypocrisy now widespread according to which the energy transition towards 2030 and 2050 can be done with photovoltaic or wind only. So you're just teasing the country, irritating the productive economic world. We all know, and you have also written this in the PNIEC (Integrated National Plan for Energy and Climate), recently approved and transmitted to Brussels, that the energy transition, over the next thirty years, will necessarily have to be accompanied by gas which, therefore, for a long time will still be fundamental and strategic to replace the most polluting fossil sources. With the moratorium, not only are you humiliating him, but you are sinking the entire Italian oil & gas sector, especially Ravenna, already on your knees. In fact, extending the moratorium for the search for new gas fields for another six months leaves the energy companies in uncertainty, puts at risk many employees of the sector, but above all condemns the country to a greater dependence on energy slavery from abroad. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] What you want, then, is to import the gas. Bravo! Can you explain to me who you want to do a favor, in addition to Total and therefore France, that in the territorial waters of Cyprus is growing gas from a deposit that is riding our territorial waters? Do you know that in Italy, in 2018, they docked over 600 oil tankers that certainly do not have electric motors? However, it should be clear that the environment is gaining, reducing gas imports, firstly because this reduces the emissions of oil tankers' diesel engines and secondly because this reduces the pumping of gas compression plants, which have to push methane to local dispatch. Excuse me, but why did you not accept the amendment tabled by the parliamentarians of the League that was of absolute common sense? If the Ministry of Economic Development and the Ministry of the Environment and the protection of the territory and the sea are late and not enough eighteen months for the adoption of the plan, you should have taken eighteen months, two years or three years, but immediately you would have had to return effectiveness to the suspended research permits, in order not to further exclude our country from potential investments that will now go up in smoke. Now, from the Ravennate, with Bonaccini and the mayor De Pascale of the Democratic Party in the lead, but also with institutional representatives of the League, moved by anger and determination, will come to hours, in the next day, forwarded to the Government the formal request to open a national confrontation in order to recognize the state of crisis of a section, that today counts approximately 3.000 employees, between direct and indirect, and that only four years ago counted more than 5.000. In short, it is another short circuit in the majority and, above all, in the Democratic Party, which cannot mock citizens, businesses and the country, doing two parts in comedy: one in Rome and the other in Ravenna. Mr President, I start with the conclusions, addressing my colleagues in the majority: stop harming the country, take note of your inability and your quarrels, go home and let Italy grow in harmony, with the League and Salvini in the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u129	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u130	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, even in an Assembly which does not seem to express its interest in the measure, which would seem to be very much awaited by various sectors of public life, I think I should start by saying that we are on the same page, with the abuse of the instrument of urgent decree. This is an abuse that some politicians, who now sit comfortably among the majority, have stigmatized in a controversial and not indifferent way in the last parliamentary term, when even the benches of the government have been occupied, precisely to protest at the gag of Parliament's institutional prerogatives, the main body of legislation. Today we realize that, obviously, by changing the position and perspective, the decree of urgency can also be a useful instrument and that "go to hell" Parliament and do what it believes best. Moreover, we have been accustomed to other reversals and other turns, regarding the use of blue cars, which when used by others were a waste, but now that they bring instead representatives of this Government serve to guarantee safety. Better late than never: welcome to this land. Colleagues, I want to tell you, however, to be careful, because it is the other day a judgment of the Constitutional Court, which declared the unconstitutionality of a part of the law that has been roughed up, which has been presented as the painstaking one for the fight against corruption and this morning has been declared another unconstitutionality of the same legislation. So try to connect with the Constitution, the country's fundamental law, when you go to legislate. On this occasion you have clearly violated Article 77 of the Constitution - and not only that - because the decree-law in question lacks the prerequisites of necessity and urgency. I say this because, as some of my colleagues observed this morning in the debate, the decree-law of a thousandprorogates, the omnibus, has become an ordinary instrument of legislation and we forget that this hides the government's inability to legislate properly. This morning in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, in the face of such a dispute, we have been told that, however, many times it is bureaucracy that is not in touch with Parliament, so it is not in a position to adapt to the regulations. It is wrong, because bureaucracy takes advantage of this instrument knowing that the Government is consenting, it is complicit, it is allied, so it does not commit itself to adapting to the regulations because it knows that there will be a thousandprorogates, the omnibus measure. This is so true that, from being an extraordinary instrument for which it is not possible to predict when the need arises, it has become a systematic tool: This is what we put in a thousandprorogues; this we put in the omnibus provision. This is, therefore, a way to legislate absolutely contrary to Article 77 of the Constitution. However, another violation of Article 70 of the Constitution must be reported: Parliament is the body responsible for law-making. Moreover, today the Constitutional Court is deciding on an appeal concerning the unjustified compression of the times of discussion in the budget law (I do not know if the matter has already been decided, but it will certainly be resolved today). It is not possible for Parliament to be called only as a spectator of a government's will. Parliament has a prerogative, which is the legislative one; the government has a privileged channel at the time when it presents draft laws, which must rightly have priority in the debate, but it is Parliament in its entirety, where there are majority and opposition, that has to legislate. This morning, a colleague said that you invented the milleproroghe custom in 2005 with the center-right government. At the time, however, it was an exceptional instrument and concerned the extension of time limits which were extended for the first time. I would like to remind you that you have abused it, if it is true - as it is true - that last week we voted on the decree-law on interceptions, which was the fourth extension for the entry into force of certain rules even of the Orlando reform. It is therefore no longer a moment of exceptionality but of ordinaryity, a moment of legislation that violates Parliament's prerogatives. The decisions of the Constitutional Court which drew the Government essentially from two obligations were of no use, the first of which concerns the homogeneity of matters. I believe that it is not necessary to be a lawyer or a constitutionalist to say that there is absolutely no homogeneity in this text, if it is true that we are talking about the extension of time limits for territorial authorities, the extension of time limits for justice, the environment, infrastructure, social policies, education, universities, culture and those who have more. I wonder where is the homogeneity provided for by the Constitution and which indicated the Constitutional Court both by judgment No 22 of 2012 and by judgment No 247 of 2019. However, there is another aspect that escapes you and that has been heavily violated: the bill of conversion of the decree-law must be functionalized and specialized, i.e. it cannot open to matters other than those contained in the decree-law. It is therefore sufficient to note that the decree-law in question entered the Chamber with about forty articles and came out with almost eighty to understand that another violation was carried out. Since there is no greater deafness than those who do not want to hear it, I say to my opposition colleagues that in my opinion it is time once again to invest the Constitutional Court in this sensitive matter. It is not possible, in fact, to see this violence against the institutions in an impassive manner. By violating the principle of functionalization and specialization of the law of conversion you once again violated the Constitution. But there is more, and I am going to conclude, because there is no point in talking, given that decisions have already been taken and that once again you will probably put yet another question of trust, perhaps 28th or 29th, within twenty-four months; it is more than one month, if we consider that in August Parliament does not work. Evidently there is no more deaf than those who do not want to listen. There is the question of Article 35 of the Decree-Law, which deals with motorway concessions. You use a decree-law, which is aimed at extending time limits, to regulate a matter which, being of a legal nature, needs to be regulated by a law, in violation of what the European Court of Justice and the Council of State have established, which require that the withdrawal of the concession should always be assisted by appropriate compensatory mechanisms. You are not interested in this at all. We will vote against this measure; we will vote against it in order to give a signal of insufferance to this way of law-making; we will vote against it even if some of these rules would probably have been shared and shared by them, but they are the method and system that we do not agree with. We hope that this vote against, which will probably not stop you on this path, will serve as a wake-up call, as a wake-up call to the consciences of those who want to legislate and govern legitimately and respecting the Constitution. It is therefore a vote against accountability to us, to Parliament and to the country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u131	She is registered to speak Senator Di Girolamo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the adoption of this bill of conversion of the Decree-Law is intended to ensure the continuity of the operation of the entire administrative machinery, which has unfortunately been unprepared for the expiry deadlines set at 31 December 2019. A decree-law, the so-called milleproroghe, with a very aseptic name, which encloses in itself provisions of various nature and substantial character, but above all of urgency for the various sectors. Unfortunately in these years more and more often Italy has reminded us of being an extremely delicate territory. As regards prevention and safety, in this measure we have included, firstly, the postponement to the date of 31 December 2021 of the deadline by which every building used for school use located in the seismic risk zones classified first and second grade, with priority for buildings located in the municipalities of Central Italy affected by the disastrous seismic events of 2016 and 2017. In addition, the deadline for the verification of seismic vulnerability of buildings of strategic interest and important infrastructure works for civil protection purposes is deferred on the same date as 31 December 2021. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is then postponed to 31 July 2019 the date by which the municipalities of Central Italy affected by the earthquake and with a population of more than 30,000 inhabitants would have had to approve the budget of the year 2018 for the allocation of the contribution of 5 million euros previewed from the decree-law unblockingantieri; useful money for the realization of urgent interventions of extraordinary maintenance or put in safety on roads and municipal infrastructures. Moreover, with the extension to 31 December 2021 of the deadline for the application of the transitional framework allowing the permanent recruitment of persons who have in progress employment relations with public administrations, as well as delaying the period within which the requirement relating to seniority of service is to be met, the aim is to create a time frame useful for the definitive stabilisation of the personnel employed in the reconstruction. Finally, at 31 December 2020, the time limits for the temporary storage of debris, waste and excavation materials in the territories of central Italy affected by seismic events started on 24 August 2016 differ. We believe that Italy must start again and quickly. For this reason the Movimento 5 Stars strongly wanted to launch last spring the decree-law unblocking. Now, to make it even more effective, some aspects of the discipline introduced at the time by Article 4 are modified in relation to the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner in charge of overseeing the interventions on the road network of the Sicilian Region. In particular, it is stipulated that the Commissioner shall be appointed by 28 February 2020; that his activity shall be limited to the main road network; and that he may also avail himself of the Anas, the central and peripheral administrations of the State and other public bodies. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Also with reference to the extraordinary commissioners previewed by the unlockingantieri, in order to allow the immediate operation it is expected that, at the same time to the nomination, the opening of special accounts in the name of the individual commissioners on which to pour the assigned resources. Let us not forget Sardinia, for which it is expected to appoint, by 30 June 2020, an extraordinary commissioner for the realization of the road infrastructure works of the same Region. Never - I stress - could we have forgotten the people of Genoa and the tragedy that surrounded them in August 2018. In particular, for them they are previewed a series of participations in harbour matter, in order to assure additional transport services in order to face the criticalities consequent the collapse of the Morandi bridge, with an appropriation of 20 million euros also for 2020, in order to renew the park means used from the metropolitan City of Genoa. We are now talking about the withdrawal of motorway concessions, where the debate - not only political - has focused heavily over the last few months. In the decree-law in question a discipline is introduced, in derogation from that provided for in the code of public contracts, aimed at regulating the cases of revocation, revocation or resolution of concessions of roads or highways. In particular, it is expected that, in the more of the conduct of the procedures of contest for the identification of the new concessionaire, the management, the maintenance and the actions necessary for the requalification or the adaptation of these roads can be entrusted to the Anas, and that the compensation to be paid, in case of extinction of the concession for failure to comply with the concession, concerns only the value of the works realized and not also the penalties and compensation as compensation for loss of income, declaring null and void any contractual clauses, substantial and procedural differences, even if approved by law. I am referring - and here I want to highlight it - to Article 35 of the decree-law of the thousandprorogues, with which the relationship of contractual force between grantor and concessionaire is rebalanced [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , the same report that has so far been overly favourable to concessionaires. In conclusion, as representative of the people of Abruzzo, I want here to highlight how good this decree-law leads to my land, Abruzzo: interventions related to the hospital network, to the judicial geography, to the funds and actions for the areas affected by the earthquake and other natural disasters. These are problems that Abruzzo has been dragging behind for too long. I am referring to the weakening of so many, too many hospitals and the risk of the closure of important justice offices in our cities. On the other hand, special attention is still paid to health care workers, such as Penne and Popoli, in the province of Pescara, who have been extremely weakened following the Lorenzin Decree-Law, but of particular importance as they are located in earthquake zones. The deadline for implementing the amendments to the reform of judicial geography is extended to 2022, thus giving a further year of breath and time to be able to rescue the courts of Sulmona, Avezzano, Lanciano and Vasto, victims of a reform done underestimating too many aspects of extraordinary importance. And again, on the education and research front, there is an increase of 4 million euros from the year 2020 for reforms to the international doctoral school of the Gran Sasso science institution. Finally, by quoting my illustrious and historic fellow citizen, "Sulmo mihi patria est": my city, Sulmona, this year will finally celebrate the Latin poet Publio Ovidio Nasone 2000 years after his death, thanks to the extension of the promoting committee for cultural initiatives in his honor. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] A measure, therefore, with a very aseptic name, is the decree-milleproroghe law, but that in fact turns out to be a manna from heaven for the whole country. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u133	The general debate is closed. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I put the question of confidence in the adoption, without amendments or additional articles, of the single article of draft law No 1729 of the conversion of Decree-Law No 162 of 30 December 2019 into the text approved by the House of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u135	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been placed on the approval of the bill for the conversion of Decree-Law No 162, in the same text as that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Conference of Leaders is convened to organise the relevant debate. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 15.48 p.m. and resumed at 16.22 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u136	The Conference of Leaders organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the Decree-Law on urgent provisions concerning the extension of legislative terms, the organisation of public administrations and technological innovation, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Fifty minutes were allocated for the discussion on trust, on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The final explanations of vote will follow and call it. The Minister of Health's information on coronavirus remains confirmed at 9 a.m. tomorrow.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u137	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u138	Mr President, I would like to make a quick general comment on the concept of a thousand-pronge and the confidence attached to it. I heard a colleague say: yes, it is true, this is a meatloaf decree, full of stuff, and there is also trust, but we did not begin the tradition of the thousand-pronged decrees. So, it's okay. Nice courage to make these statements! I would have expected, rather, a dignified silence, but obviously that was not the case. As for the merit of this decree-law, what does it contain? It contains, among other things, a very annoying measure such as the extension of the terms relating to the police agencies, in particular those on the earthquake, after we were assured, in several earthquake decrees, that those decrees would be decisive. Therefore, the number one problem, on which we must ask ourselves deeply, is: is it possible that in Italy the authorization procedures for issuing opinions are so cumbersome that not even the commissioners can conclude the practices within a reasonable time? That's the real question. But instead of asking this question, Commissioners are still being asked about Commissioners. For example, after two months - I stress: two months - since the establishment of the European Meteorological Centre, the Emilia Romagna Region is invested, as a contracting station, with the powers of the extraordinary commissioner. Two months and you already need an extraordinary commissioner? We didn't leave either, and we already need the Commissioner? So, you have to understand that the problem is upstream, as I keep repeating every time. We cannot create two Italies, one in which we must manage with ordinary procedures and never reach the end and another part that is subjected to the umbrella of the Commissioner's management with the Commissioner who, from time to time, asks for a derogation from a certain situation in order to proceed. Two Italies are not constitutional and a Government - because this is a decree-law and the Government has done so - must not allow preferential lanes to be created in Italy. We then intervene once and for all on the authorization procedures, seeing and considering that some political forces have come here and have been elected to the cry of: let's change! That is the thing that needs to be changed, not to expand the powers of the Commission or to appoint more Commissioners. More importantly, in addition to the Commissioner's situation, there are other situations which, in my opinion, deserved more in-depth analysis and did not have it and have had a wrong answer. From the bottom, I think, for example, of the article in which the problem of the pollution of moored ships is rightly referred to. The wrong answer to this is: we feed ships with ground systems, without specifying which ones. This opens up to the fact that localized production stations of energy can be created, i.e. generating sets, possibly even fueled with diesel, which provide the necessary electrical power to power the ship's on-board systems, which are normally powered by an 80- or 90-megawatt engine, which, although not functioning at full speed, require great power to be powered. Instead, I would have expected, from someone more environmentally conscious, that we would talk about direct connection with medium voltage cables, while this is not there. So you open up to the possibility of delocalizing pollution from the ship to the dock, a bit like with the power generating systems of the electric tractors, which are nothing more than generating sets placed on the side of the field, with cables that connect to the tractor, which becomes an electric tractor and therefore is classified as a zero emission vehicle: be careful, because this is the norm. Always remaining on the subject, I noticed that there continue to be two sources of "renewable" energy, which have a favorable treatment compared to others and are biogas and photovoltaic. Biogas escapes the RES1 decree, because it has a dedicated incentive and therefore does not have quota and does not even have echelons. Photovoltaics do not escape the renewable decree RES1, but it has a dedicated legislation, which we have seen in the various measures on energy communities and self-production. The question that arises spontaneously is: since this has nothing to do with a thousand-pronged decree, why does the majority consider that they favour two renewables, one of which, biogas, is renewable to say, at the expense of all the others? Is it not knowledge or malice? As for biogas, talk about small plants, classifying as such those up to 300 kilowatts. First consideration: see that 300 kilowatts are very, not a few. Secondly, farms with only waste cannot feed a biogas plant, they need dedicated crops and therefore, in fact, in this way, they take away agricultural land from a dedicated crop and the farmer finds it more convenient to produce electricity than to produce food. So if that was the purpose, fine, but if that wasn't the purpose, the arrow was sent in the opposite direction to the target. Before concluding, I would like to mention two other points on incentive. The first concerns the electric means of transport, which are currently spreading, such as hoverboards, scooters and single wheel. The approach this time too, in my opinion, is highly punitive, in the sense that, if the vehicle you are using is not part of a special annex, which contains all the vehicles being tested, you are automatically using a vehicle that is not approved for road traffic on open roads and as such liable to seizure and fine. The approach is punitive because, with all the proliferation of devices of this type that are sold, at least the legislator should include a nice label on the envelope, in which it is specified at least that the vehicle may not be suitable for open road circulation. We try to put the buyer in a position not to incur a crime, even if it is true that ignorance of the law is not allowed, we could try to help the consumer and not simply tell him: "You did and this is your ticket." Finally, I would like to mention the incentive to purchase hybrid or electric vehicles, since their CO2 emissions are below the threshold of 60 grams per kilometre. Firstly, I expect the legislator to know, but obviously he does not know, that these consumptions are based on type-approval cycles and not on road tests and actual tests. The CO2 emissions of vehicles currently listed in the various lists do not correspond to real consumption, but they are all much, but much lower. So the legislator who wants to encourage the purchase of a vehicle on the basis of a non-real data is making a huge mistake. Let me give you an example: you have lowered the emission threshold to 60 grams per kilometre to access the incentives. After a quick calculation of petrol and emissions, it turns out that only four-wheeled vehicles, which make at least 40 kilometers with a liter, would be encouraged: if someone brings me a passenger car, which is more than 40 kilometers with a liter, I give him a handshake, because in reality there is no such vehicle. Even, continue to provide incentives based on the fact that electric vehicles are at virtually zero emissions, but that is not true. The electric vehicle has a delocalized emission. Now I am not going into the debate about the issue of more grams of CO2 an electric vehicle or a diesel vehicle throughout the life cycle, because there are conflicting things, but anything can be said except that emissions are zero. Therefore, before favouring an electric vehicle over one with another type of propulsion, this kind of consideration should be made, if only because you neglect the fact that any broken vehicle skips the whole waste hierarchy and goes directly to the landfill. Indeed, the myth that motor vehicles are fully recyclable is truly a myth. Encourage this, so do not encourage the re-use of vehicles, regardless of how old they are or how worn out they are. With regard to the whole part of the four-wheeled vehicles, this means creating a programmed obsolescence, making in fact nothing all the energy that was invested in the construction of the vehicle, wasting it completely in favor of a new vehicle, which therefore was built using new energy and new emissions. All these things are not considered. Finally, the encouragement of a low-emission vehicle must not be without its mass. To think that with measures like this can be encouraged, because low emissive, a vehicle of 2,500 kilos of mass with electric traction and not a vehicle with diesel from 800 kilos of mass is a total madness: the emissions of that electric vehicle are incredibly higher, not to mention the riskiness of a vehicle with 2,500 kilograms of mass. Our speed limits on urban, suburban roads and motorways are in fact calibrated on vehicles that had another mass decades ago; a vehicle of 2,500 kilos has a much higher kinetic energy is one of 1,000 kilos, so for him the speed limit cannot be the same. If you want to encourage vehicles like this, you can do it, but you have to go and review all speed limits, because people's safety comes before the incentive of anything. [[Applause from Senator De Bonis.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u139	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u140	Mr President, I will spend less time at my disposal because I can only reiterate the positive assessment we made in the previous speech during the general debate on the measures contained in the Senate Act 1729 of extending time limits. First of all, we believe that having placed the issue of trust can certainly appear to be a compression - in some way - of the debate and of the work of this House, but in my opinion it is undoubtedly an important and fundamental issue at this time, because I believe that in the coming days this House will need to discuss issues that are certainly close to hearing the people. Outside, in fact, there is a moment of concern about the difficulties inherent in the events concerning the coronavirus, so we will have to deal with the measures that have already been enacted by the government and then the more economic ones that it will issue in the next few hours. In our view, therefore, it is right that there has been an acceleration of work, because this allows us to dismiss a measure which has many positive aspects, as we have already said. Some questions are raised about the fact that the measure tends to put a piece to what has been done with the budget law and with the previous measures; this topic may be real, but we know that in this country, as I said, there is often an administrative deficit that necessarily leads to the need to extend the legal deadlines in order to allow companies, private individuals and public administrations to benefit from certain laws, or not to be penalized in case you cannot take advantage of the conditions that the rules allow. This is, therefore, a measure that affects many areas of life and public administration, as I have said. Above all, the attention given to the stabilisation of precarious persons is positive. Particular attention is also paid to the sector of local authorities, which are increasingly in difficulty, especially in the implementation of the rules and not only because of the lack of resources. I therefore believe that this measure can give further impetus to those interventions already contained in the budget law, the positive effects of which we are sure will be felt in the course of 2020, bearing in mind that we are facing a complex situation, because of the novelty of the last few days. Parliament will be called upon to dismiss the thousand-pronged decree quickly and then to take a path that will have to aim for the revival of the economy, because of the difficulties that seem to arise with the events that concern the coronavirus and the economic complexity that this situation is determining. We will vote in favour of the question of confidence on the measure, with the hope of undertaking a work path on other issues in the next few hours. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u141	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary-General, I welcome the invitation to speak first of all to reiterate the overall goodness of the measure. This is a measure that, as many colleagues have already pointed out, presents many positive aspects and gives important answers to many issues in the lives of citizens. Certainly, as has been said, we will have other issues to deal with urgently in the coming days, but in the meantime important answers are given here on the most disparate issues. Even for the short time that I have given myself, I will concentrate on a few issues that are relevant to agriculture. First of all, there is the extension of the green bonus: a measure that we had already tested in the past years, which had given important answers, which we had not been able to incorporate into the budget law and which instead finds its place in this text. We believe it is important both for the quality of life of cities and citizens, and because it introduces that element of valorization and beauty that represents an important part of the Made in Italy, of that image of the country in the world that supports a supply chain, the floral one, characterizing for many territories. A second important measure for agriculture is that which extends the current regulation which excludes the application of the legislation on anti-mafia documentation relating to agricultural land using European funds for amounts not exceeding EUR 25,000, pending a definitive solution of this issue, which risks being severely retarding for the whole agricultural world and clogging our prefectures in the preparation of documents. Indeed, the EUR 5,000 deadline for European contributions to agriculture is in fact unsustainable, so we are forced to renew the extension pending a final measure. It also introduces a proposal, which had already been put forward in the discussion of the draft budget law, on the re-launching of the possibility of plants of up to 300 kilowatts for the production of biogas for electricity for farms. I would like to make a brief comment on this subject, since other Members have spoken and have commented on this rule. Biogas is an important subject for agriculture from a technical and agronomic point of view. We have a huge amount of zootechnical waste, which today is used as much as for the feeding of the soil, as fertilizer and with soil improvers functions, which, if processed and subject to anaerobic biodiges, greatly improve the qualities of contribution to the soil, both in terms of the stabilization of the product, and in terms of the absorbability of the chemical elements they contain. From this point of view, given that our territory is largely affected by the need to govern soils that are in many cases vulnerable, the fact that we have fertilizers that have been subjected to anaerobic digestion (which makes them much more absorbable) greatly reduces the risks of sinking and therefore pollution of the groundwater. This helps us to address the whole issue of the areas affected by excess nitrates. This small intervention, which we wanted with an amendment submitted to the House, revives the possibility of creating small farm plants in function of support to farms with the use of materials that would still ferment in the ground and therefore bring to the environment the type of gas that they go to emit. But in this case, such gas production is being used to contribute to the percentages of achieving renewable energy fundamental for our country. I believe that this intervention, albeit small and also only for this year, is launching an important sector, that of renewable energy, demonstrating that we want to continue to invest and give perspective to this sector because we are convinced that it is important not only in terms of energy but also and above all from the agronomic point of view. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u143	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u144	Mr President, as far as we are concerned, the question we asked ourselves is as follows: how can we trust such a government? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] A government that is not in the Chamber. You are only united by the fear of Matthew Salvini; you are united only by the fear of the will of the people to have a different Government. So you're joined by the chair. [[Senator Mirabelli's comments.]] This is a government blocking the country. From August to today, the only thing you've been able to do is put the question of trust, because you're not united. Two parties: on the one hand the party of the happy decrease, which is now realizing what the happy decrease is, and on the other hand the tax party. But how do you trust a government made up of two subjects who were against each other until the day before yesterday on television? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Zingaretti versus Di Maio, Di Maio versus Zingaretti and Renzi. From what are you united? You don't have a vision! Just watch out for everyday life. You've produced two volumes of milleprorogues and who needs them? You have no vision; look only at tomorrow morning, but it has been August that we have been standing still. There's a completely different situation out there. You are not even present here. You really are something unheard of. As far as we're concerned, a government like this -- other than trust -- should be sent home right away. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]] I'm glad you applauded us. I speak mainly to the 5 Stars. Maybe your goal to bring the country to the happy decline you are realizing it. [[Comments of the M5S Group.]] It's your goal! The country wants something different! We hope to vote soon. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Ironic applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u145	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u146	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Government left alone by the Ministers, I can also understand the decree-prorogations, because the nature of this measure is known, whereas this morning, when a Ministry made two, two Ministers benefiting from the decree-law, it would have been normal to see at least one of them; instead, we did not see anyone. Having said that, the government is worthyly represented by the Undersecretary Castaldi, so let's not say it's not there. However, it would be good if Ministers also came: if a person makes a decree-law - says the Constitution, not me - it should be for cases of extraordinary necessity and urgency, then one would expect, at least in passing, to see a Minister; instead, what we always see is Minister D'Incà, who comes to put trust. Trust, multipronged decrees and decrees-laws in general are normative instruments that the 5 Star Movement, when it was in opposition, pointed to as an indication of bad politics, of these politicians who have been there so far, who are not capable, crush the prerogatives of Parliament and want to make pastries on their own, without accountable to anyone. Now we see that the decree-laws (and the decree-law with extensions in particular), as well as trust, are used even more than before, so now you will tell us if you had come back yesterday or if you have it today. The extension decrees - which personally do not scandalize me, also because they contain a series of measures that are completely uneven and therefore do not undoubtedly reflect the criteria that the Constitutional Court has reiterated, but that are in the very nature of the measure, as described in the Constitution - can be enclosed in three main categories. Firstly, there is the extension of a deadline that the Government has put to itself: since public administration, which depends on it, very often fails to organize itself to implement those rules, the Government makes a derogation to itself. I remember that the Government - not only this, but it is perfectly in line and, indeed, in part, strengthens it - is always too busy taking over the legislative function, which should belong to the Senate and the House, and forgets to do what it was born for, that is, to make the State work. It is not enough to do the law, it must be implemented: Parliament must do it and the government usually takes this prerogative for itself; then it must be implemented, because it is not enough to approve a piece of paper here. On this, however, the Government is often extremely failing, so it puts quite a few paragraphs in the decree extensions to give itself one, two or three years more. A second category, which I would call the most praiseworthy that enters the decree-law extensions, is the following: it approves a stupid, unrealistic and unreasonable law, tending to do what is defined as giving a signal, in other words, to do something senseless, that citizens are thought to be amazed enough to appreciate (this is giving a signal). The signal we have to give is to make laws that are well made and applicable, and then to apply them: this should be the duty of Parliament and the Government; instead, they give the signals. When you give signals by making unreasonable laws, then you think you have made a law to throw smoke in the eyes of the voters who you think - not us, but who makes them - are stupid and fall for it, but you apply it from the following year; then, when the year is over, you will talk about the next one and the next one again. In this context, I have to say that this year we have small masterpieces: for example, we have an extension in the publication of income compensation for public managers. There is a rule that provides for the publication of public executive fees and postpones it: but I had heard that there was a certain movement that was for absolute transparency, that wanted to open cans of tuna, etc. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , but then puts by decree a publication. I agree that transparency must also have a limit: but then you have the courage to change the law, if it is wrong, instead of saying that it is and that it will be applied only from 2021, 2022 or 2023, hoping that it will touch someone else, otherwise another extension will be made; that is the spirit. Or another fine arrangement is the provision of additional staff to the authority guaranteeing childhood and adolescence: right, carries out - or better, should do so - a very important function; but how is it that we have never heard of the events of illicit entrusting? He didn't do anything. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] , nor does it appear that he has ever responded to exposure or appeals made by desperate families because their children were taken away. Or we have another good forecast: the extension of the digital platform for payments to public administrations. We had said that this was an unreasonable rule, which concerned very small operators (because as long as you talk about colossus there is no problem, indeed they themselves are advantaged): but when they have to do it they are very small subjects, we had said that it was unreasonable, but we were told that we had to keep it; It will be done, yes, but later, from 2021, 2022 and so on. Another significant extension concerns the granting of works and public services. A European standard stipulates that concessions, typically road concessions, entrusted without public evidence competition or the instrument of project finance should put all the work they carry out to tender. In fact, since they were given the concession without competition (usually because they inherit companies that were previously public), they should put into competition, in turn, the works they do. A few years ago, however, a big discount was made and extended. This discount, read like this, seems almost an obligation. But no, the problem is that still 20 and 40 percent escape these categories. Another extension to be mentioned concerns the rewards for military valor. It is postponed until 2 June 2021 the possibility of assigning decorations for the Resistance, which in 2021 will turn seventy-six years. It is always a page of our history to remember, but - perhaps - it would take a little more timeliness. Certainly it does no harm to anyone, indeed it will still allow us to value some pages of our history, but - I repeat - perhaps a little more timeliness would not have been bad. Then there are the issues that should have been there and there aren't. I quote a few very quickly, because we are now closing. The question of trust has been raised. I remember one thing. It is true, as several colleagues have pointed out, that all the governments led by Berlusconi and Forza Italia have adopted the so-called extension decrees. I, in fact, said I didn't get shocked about it. However, the fact that the possibility for senators to introduce even theoretically a few norms is in fact a novelty of the transparency of these times. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And transparency is not what serves to benefit this or that senator from being able to say that an amendment has passed, but it serves the citizens to say: look at this rule, who wanted it? You don't know who wanted it, because it passes with trust. That rule is horrible, but I voted for it because it was part of the whole: this will say who will speak for it, also telling the truth. The thousandprorogues decree contains - I do not exaggerate - about 240 completely uneven rules. Where, then, is the responsibility? The responsibility lies with someone else, not with someone who governs it, for goodness sake, or with someone who votes it. It's someone else's responsibility, you don't know who. In fact, it is the responsibility of those who want to crush Parliament's work so that all the rules are written in the negotiations between the leaders of the parties, without even involving the senators of the majority, let alone those of the opposition. We have proposed important measures, including the extension of the time limits for incentives for building safety measures. These are important measures. A lot of our building assets would need this measure. We have also proposed an incentive for the purchase of earthquake-proof buildings and the extension of measures concerning earthquake-stricken areas. [[Recalls of the President]] The list is long and the President rightly reminds me of the timing. Finally, I would like to remind you of what is really missing. During the last government the cancellation of the prescription was unfortunately approved. In a country where you pay hundreds of millions of euros, at the expense of the taxpayer, to compensate unjust imprisonments or that do not respect the conditions provided for by international treaties and judicial errors (situation, this, which costs us hundreds of millions, in addition to the serious violation of citizens' rights) what is done? The great urgency has been abolishing the prescription, for which processes not long but endless, detentions not long but endless, arbitrary detentions made also with the capture, the intercepts and the most incredible instruments that enter the life of each. Well, that was the extension that was not needed (i.e. the extension of the end of the trials to never). It should have been extended, at least (as it was difficult to abolish it), the entry into force of this monster, which remains. For this reason we will vote against, as best it will be expressed by those who will intervene to announce the vote of Forza Italia. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u147	Senator Corbetta is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u148	Mr President, the first thousand-pronged decree was born in 2004 as an exceptional measure to postpone the deadlines set by the end of the year and to prolong the effectiveness of various rules. Over time it has become a constant - despite its theoretical character of exceptionality - reproposed virtually by all governments that have followed in the last fifteen years. Often, like this year, it is enriched with measures that remain outside the budget law. It is therefore often considered - objectively not without reason - in a negative sense; as a device to approve measures that remain outside the maneuver or to make extensions that, in an ideal country, or perhaps simply normal, should not be made. It should be borne in mind, however, that last year we had to put in place a maneuver in a short time and under exceptional conditions which we will hardly forget. A courageous maneuver with which we have managed to protect the interests of the citizens, avoiding the increase of taxes and the temporary exercise, natural consequences of the flight from the responsibilities of the Government of our former allies of the League. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] At the same time, we have succeeded in adopting measures that make our idea of development and the future clear. And it is on this same wavelength that this thousand-pronge is framed: not tips for discontented parliamentarians, but interventions useful to citizens, businesses and public administrations. The measures taken are very many and it is not possible to remember them all in just a few minutes, but I can't help but start with the rules on motorway concessions. We have indeed taken a decisive step towards restoring justice and fairness in this area. First of all, we blocked the increase in tariffs until the concessionaires presented a financial economic plan. Secondly, we have established that it will be the State, through Anas, that will take over the management of the road and motorway network belonging to a concession revoked, revoked or resolved, at least until reliance upon it by tender. Last, but not least, the rule that eliminates compensation for loss of earnings to unfulfilled concessionary companies. We have resisted the attempts to delete these rules, in our opinion sacrosing, because there is no joke about concessions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We do not allow any step back, especially after what happened with the tragedy of the Ponte Morandi of Genoa. So much has been done on the environment, energy and bills. After having introduced in maneuver a bonus facades and confirmed all the building bonuses, in the thousandprorogues we extend to 2020 also the green bonus, which helps families to set up green open areas of private buildings, thanks to a deduction of 36 percent. So, by throwing the money, we not only confirm all the previous bonuses, but we introduce new ones, because for us investments and environment have to go hand in hand. We extend incentives for the purchase of electric or hybrid vehicles to the whole of 2020, but we lower the threshold for hybrid emissions under which incentives can be enjoyed. It is the right way to further enhance the environmental content of the measure, because the environment cannot be just a fashion slogan. We had to intervene on the protected energy and gas market and we did so. The end of the protected market will not take place before 2021 for small businesses and 2022 for micro-enterprises and households. The deadline for this year was unsustainable, because too many consumers are still unaware of the transition to the free market and many of the private sellers themselves have to adapt to the transparency required with regard to their offers. Moreover, only a small part of these offers have more favourable costs than those borne by households and businesses in the protected market. In fact, without this measure, 22 million households would have had to move from point blank to the free market, resulting in an indiscriminate increase in bills. We give a strong boost to energy consumption, the future of an economy compatible with the environment and consumers' pockets. From today consumers - groups of citizens, condominiums, traders, small entrepreneurs and public administrations - will be able to join together to share electricity from renewable sources, creating communities for the exchange of energy. Energy that can be self consumed, but also fed into the network or stored to be used at night. On the subject of local public transport, we have allocated to the large municipalities additional resources of 40 million over the next two years, for the renewal of car parks and trolley roads. The consequence will be the improvement of air quality, as foreseen in the National Strategic Plan for Sustainable Mobility. Let's go to the sea: we put more resources for the management of marine protected areas. For too long the natural beauty and richness of biodiversity in our country have not received the right protection. That is why we have worked to increase the number of protected areas and to strengthen their management with over one million euros for the next two years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We have extended the moratorium against drills and airgun to 30 months, in fact six months more than the original rule. This is a necessary action to continue to protect the marine and terrestrial environment, but the next step will be to definitively ban new drills throughout the national territory. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is a key policy point for us and we will continue to achieve our goal, focusing heavily on renewable sources and energy redevelopment. On the work chapter, we continue to invest in active policies by allocating EUR 10 million to improve the functioning of the National Agency for Active Labour Policies (ANPAL). With the revolution introduced with the citizenship income, we have already allowed the recruitment of 11,000 employees in employment centers, including the 3,000 navigators contracted by ANPAL. With these new resources we aim to make this Agency more efficient in support of job seekers. We have approved a package of income support measures for workers in companies in crisis. Inside there are 19 million euros for the former Ilva. There are also the special integration fund for twelve months for companies located in industrial crisis areas in Campania and Veneto and mobility by way of derogation for some areas of Campania and the area of Venice-Porto Marghera. We are talking about thousands of workers who have been living in uncertainty for months and who can finally have some oxygen. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The milleproroghe also allocates EUR 20 million as a buffer support to call center workers. Pending structural solutions, it was our duty to give a signal of attention to the workers in the sector who have been living in an uncertain future for too many months. Let's talk about Made in Italy and the internationalization of companies. The budget for the extraordinary plan for Made in Italy is increased by 6.5 million for 2020, also in view of the need to implement specific measures to accompany internationalisation due to the business opportunities arising from important international events. We also refinance, with 50 million euros, the Rotation Fund for the granting of loans at a reduced rate for Italian companies that carry out commercial penetration programmes in foreign markets. Speaking of Made in Italy and Italian companies abroad, I cannot forget the great work that the Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio is doing to strengthen relations with the most promising markets for our export and, in general, for our business presence abroad. The time available to me does not allow further deepening, but so much has been done also for the controls of Made in Italy in agriculture; to increase teachers in schools and reduce overcrowding in school classrooms, to hire new operators in the security sector, fire department and local police; for the digitisation of the public administration; for investments in the territories thanks to the revenues of the auto stamp, which from now will remain entirely in the coffers of the Regions; for the equivalence of titles in the health professions and to combat financial fraud online. President, after this long roundup of measures, however partial, it seems quite clear that our Government has succeeded in transforming the infamous thousandprorogues - which over the years has transformed from exceptional provision to a fixed appointment of Italian politics - into an instrument of growth and development for our country to the full benefit of our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u149	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u152	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, once again the Senate has no opportunity to speak on the text by ratifying the House's work. This extends the list of measures dealt with by one branch of Parliament. It is no longer the exception; this has become a rule that conflicts with constitutional dictates. More than once the President of the Republic and the Presidents of the House and Senate criticized this way of doing so, inviting the Government to respect the roles and centrality of Parliament. We also ask for this: Parliament must be able to exercise its prerogatives to the full. Having made this necessary premise, this bill introduces some necessary and also positive measures for our territory. The first one I would like to mention is a measure in favour of the Autonomous Provinces of Bolzano and Trento which are exempted from applying the new expenditure ceilings for health workers, restoring the regulatory conditions prior to the last budget law, in which this exemption was no longer provided for. This avoids a situation which would certainly have led to a dispute between the Central State and the Autonomous Provinces. The second concerns the school and is the extension to September 2022 of the entry into force of the Invalsi test in the language of teaching for the German and Ladin language schools, in order to give the Autonomous Province of Bolzano the time necessary for the preparation of their surveys. The article in favor of musical choirs is also important. Thanks to the intervention of Senator Lanièce with the Mibact, an article in the budget law was corrected which, due to a mere material error, had excluded the choirs from access to contributions for the period 2020-2022 in favour of music bands and festivals. It is also right to mention other measures with a positive economic impact and bureaucratic containment. I am thinking of the extension of the green bonus, with the deduction of 36% for the expenses incurred for the green accommodation of areas or irrigation systems; I am thinking of the electricity and gas bills, to give more time for citizens to adapt to the free market, avoiding the risk of a general increase in bills. I am also thinking of the extension of exemptions and incentives for earthquake-stricken territories, support for workers in companies in crisis, the freezing of increases in motorway charges until 31 July, the greater time allowed to companies for payments to the public administration or for the stamp of the car through the new "pagoPA" platform. These are all positive rules that supplement and clarify certain elements of a budget law that had the merit of preventing the increase in VAT and aiming to redistribute resources to the middle class. Unfortunately, the events of these days are telling us that the road to economic recovery will be even more difficult. That is why we expect the government to come up with a proposal in the coming weeks that will give a shock to economic recovery and a massive bureaucratic simplification. Times of crisis are an opportunity, on the bureaucracy front, to remedy where necessary. It is with this hope that I will vote in favour of the Group for the Autonomies for the measure at our examination. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV, M5S and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u155	Grimani (IV-PSI). Mr President, I rise to vote in favour of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I. This draft law extends time limits for all the reasons which have been set out in the previous speeches, during the general discussion and during the debate on confidence just now. The measure in our examination is necessary when, as we have already said in various interventions, it is necessary to allow subjects, social categories, private individuals and companies to take advantage of legal rules in the vicinity of a deadline, so as not to harm certain categories or to help others that would be penalized by the possibility of not being able to take advantage of rules that have been approved or are present in the legal order. We therefore believe that we should not be shocked because such a measure is under discussion. We must start a reflection that allows us to understand how it is possible to improve the administrative system of our country and the functioning of public administration, and to encourage the deburocratization of decision-making centres and the facilitation of the activity of the Municipalities, so that this can allow these subjects to meet the rules that concern them and in any case, more generally, to the regulatory framework that the State places them as their reference point. I believe that this thousand-pronged decree has made a great deal of talk about itself, mainly because, in the political phase of a few weeks ago, it seemed that rules on criminal justice could be included within it. It was good to have removed from the milleproroghe the hypothesis of including the reform of the prescription, which has made a lot of debate and which probably leaves the political forces in their starting positions, as it is for Italy Viva, who believes that that reform is a wrong one. This is not the place to deal with this reform, but it will be in the draft law that has been approved by the Council of Ministers. It is good, therefore, that the subject has been transferred to a suitable forum, which could not be other than a new bill, in such a way that the tension in the approval of a measure that has many positive elements can also be removed. As has already been said, Italy Viva has contributed mainly with the commitment, to the Chamber of Deputies, to the improvement of some points, also thanks to the amendment of our colleague Marco Di Maio, who has extended to 31 December 2020 the date for the maturity of the requirements for the stabilization of employees of the public administration. Thanks to one of our amendments, we have allocated 3 million for the stabilization of ANPAL Servizi workers, a measure that is very close to our heart because it is the result of a very determined and determined battle also in the budget law. We paid attention, as a group, to the extension of the deadline for requesting access to funds for support for small and medium-sized businesses in small and medium-sized municipalities, up to 20,000 inhabitants, because there was a deadline that expired at the end of February. This term is reopened until 30 September and will allow those who have the possibility to invest to reopen or expand activities, being able to take advantage of the fund to support small business. We would have liked, for example, to have paid more attention to the issue of the staff of the earthquake zones than the rules I mentioned earlier concerning the earthquake, which became part of the municipal staff for emergency management. This problem is not solved; the Government has given assurances that the issue will be taken care of in the next steps. We trust and trust the Government to give answers on this issue as well. In spite of this, we have withdrawn our amendments in the other House in the conviction that there will be a measure that will take into account the stabilisation of that staff, which however has gained considerable professionalism in the municipalities also because of the events that affect the earthquake. I therefore believe that an important contribution has been made to the drafting of this measure. Today this House is called upon to approve it. I repeat - as I said before - that it is necessary to approve it because it has many positive elements, but at the same time, in my opinion, we must also think about the need to shift our attention to the complicated moment that the country lives. We should therefore characterize the debate of the next hours and of the next week above all to give positive signals to the citizens regarding the overcoming of this emergency phase, proposing solutions that also have at heart the economic revival of the country, now even more seen the news that prefigure of the difficulties in terms of growth and, indeed, of contraction of the growth, even more than it seemed from the statistics of some weeks ago, or better of the third trimester last year. With this wish we consider the measure to be a further step forward, we must fire it this evening and we are convinced that we must approve it. Therefore, on behalf of the Italia Viva-P.S.I. Group, I announce the vote in favour of the question of trust posed by the Government for the support of this measure. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u158	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, today we are about to vote for this trust, yet another, in this thousand-pronged decree. As the name of this measure itself says, it contains extensions, it contains derogations and measures, which certainly have not been done in the right time, so extra time is needed to implement this measure. It is not written in this law that we are about to vote, but I think it is now clear to everyone that the first thing that is extended, because it is going on beyond any limit, is precisely the duration of this Government. This measure is an extension that you are giving to continue to govern a country that no longer recognizes you and that you no longer represent adequately. Mr President, we hope that this parliamentary term will no longer continue, because it has been born badly and will probably end worse. This government is demonstrating that there is no political project and that, if there was, it is a political project that has failed and is crashing the country, because you do not have an overall vision. This decree is also this: it is asking for further time and always being late. The world goes on, Italy should go on, and we, in this House, ask for an extension and we do not give answers because you do not know how to organize and you do not know how to plan the future of this country. We hoped that this measure could give answers to those companies that ask us for a prospect of relaunching the economic system and the production system of the country, but unfortunately this is not the case. We would have liked, in this decree-law, to find all those answers that we did not find in the budget law passed in December; responses that could be an opportunity to restore confidence in the Italian system. It is a confidence that you can only give with this umpteenth vote, which is a vote of confidence. And if we try to go back in time, going a little by heart, we see that all the most important measures that this Government has launched have been voted with confidence. The so-called tax decree, which has been linked to the budget law; the same budget law and, more recently, the so-called intercepting decree, in addition to this milleproroghe (or, as I said before, perhaps "millederoghe"), which is a sort of appendix to the budget law, which also passed with the vote of confidence. There is this tradition now: either the House or the Senate is put the vote of confidence, a little to shorten the time of discussion and a little 'also because you need to make a count of votes, since you fight one day yes and the other as well. You are not only expelling the representative democracy of this country, because you are obstinate to want to govern a country that you no longer know how to represent, but you are also demeaning parliamentary democracy, because, in fact, you prevent alternatively one of the two Chambers from being able to work and be able to compare. Trust, as the law and colleagues before me said, must be sought in exceptional cases. With this Government it is becoming the rule, which reveals your own inability to enforce the times you yourselves have given and the impossibility of the majority to remain united. Every day, Mr President, the members of this Government and of this majority demonstrate, not only that they are as far away from the real country as possible, but also that they are far from each other light years. If Renzi, in fact, today says one thing, tomorrow Zingaretti says another and the day after tomorrow Di Maio another. Therefore, it is evident that their marriage is a marriage of convenience and that, therefore, there is a coexistence that becomes increasingly difficult every day that passes. Politics, on the other hand, must be passionate, it must be people's consensus. You don't have either. In fact, stay here and keep people from judging you. With this confidence, you guarantee the chance to make hundreds of appointments and that is the real reason for your being glued to the seats and this is the real deception you make today to the Italian people. There is no reason, there is no policy, there is no consensus that can justify this way of governing you. Mr President, this continuous recourse to a vote of confidence, in addition to choking the parliamentary debate, is an indication of the divisions you have within you. Today there is a problem of centrality in Parliament, whose prerogatives you yourselves are systematically violating. You call yourselves democratic in words, but in fact you are mortifying the Italian Parliament. When you have to do governments with the reverses, you repeat or say that we are a parliamentary democracy, but when you have to manage power you forget and humiliate Parliament. Parliamentary democracy is either always believed or never believed. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We want to make this clear to the members of the government: today you will gain the confidence of the Senate, as you obtained a few days ago that of the Chamber of Deputies, but it is the country that no longer trusts you. And it could not be otherwise, because the measure under consideration is not a thousandprorogues, as I said before, but it is a millederoghe, an omnibus decree-law, which contains commercial measures, made more to please individual parliamentarians, than the system in its entirety. Although within it I must acknowledge the goodness of some measures that - by chance - have been strongly desired by the parliamentarians of Brothers of Italy. I would like to mention the extension of incentives for those who wish to reopen an economic, commercial or craft activity. I am also thinking of our Parent Company's amendment to the House of Deputies, which provides until 2020 for the 10% reduction in the dry coupon for rental contracts in municipalities up to 10,000 inhabitants and those in a red zone. Clearly much still could be done and it has not been done and something has also been averted: I think, for example, of the International House of Women in Rome and the electoral tip of 900,000 euros to finance it, which has been averted, but which was intended to give to an association in Rome, which happens to be in the historic center, where today is nominated a minister of your Government, that is Minister Gualtieri. I know that my colleagues from the Brothers of Italy in the Chamber of Deputies have put their best efforts to change and improve this measure, and I thank them for that. It remains the regret of having to take what arrives here in the Senate, without being able to affect the amendment of the decree a thousand extensions. We cannot accept this behavior. This law of the thousand publicity measures, without a common thread, does not go in the direction that serves our country, to which it would serve much more. Italy needs a serious and united government, which can protect national interests, relaunch its businesses and not just think about welfare policies, which drain the state's accounts and do not even create a job. Italy needs a cohesive and coherent guide that gives a future to a nation, which is a great nation, but which unfortunately has stopped believing and also dreaming. Italy needs a center-right government. You are not what Italy needs and clearly you will never have the trust of Brothers of Italy. For these reasons, Mr President, the vote of the Fratelli d'Italia Group on the multiprorogation measure will be against. [[Applause from the FdI Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u161	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, there has been a great deal of discussion about the so-called'multiprorogation decree', which has certainly become a practice, but which, of course, should be changed, and I am absolutely certain of that. I'm saying, without making an official defense of the majority. This is in fact a matter that unfortunately has always concerned all the governments and majorities that have succeeded each other, not only since 2005. This practice had begun even before and is added to the use of the decree of urgency. I believe that this should therefore be one of the elements of concern and intervention at the constitutional level, precisely to strengthen the centrality of Parliament. Moreover, we must know that this time there was a need: since the budget law had been before the Senate for a long time, it is clear that the House of Deputies has intervened to approve a series of necessary measures which had not been incorporated into the budget law in the year 2000. This is certainly the other problem which arises, namely that, over time, this measure has then become a kind of supplementary budget law. So, between majority and opposition, we should all make a commitment here to make the budget law go back to being that act which, in some way, we had tried to make it become. I am referring to a measure which deals with the major issues by drawing up the programme framework, in a broad and general line, but which does not enter and take all the micro-interventions within it. In fact, if we then decide for the micro interventions - and this concerns all, majority and opposition, depending on how it happens - then obviously not all of them happen and what happens happens, that is, we resort to the thousand-pronge decree on time, as a fixed appointment. Furthermore, there is certainly also a question of capacity. We are legislators and, perhaps even unanimously, we vary a measure, but often there are many delays within the Ministries; the measure under consideration also includes measures to ensure that, finally, after a long break in the turnover, even within the public administration, new and young forces are finally put in place and therefore the capacity and professionalism of the public administration is strengthened. The measure certainly comes out "doubled" from the examination of the Chamber, on this there is no shadow of doubt, but it must be realized that it happened also because the Government and the majority have received many of the demands and reasons of the opposition. There have been many measures that have been discussed. I quote, as an example, the comparison on motorway concessions, which was certainly very delicate and important. Well, Article 35 introduces a derogation from that provided for in the Code of Public Contracts, aimed at regulating cases of revocation, revocation and resolution of road or motorway concessions. Of course, this issue has also been discussed a lot after the collapse of the Morandi bridge, but in the comparison, therefore also with the necessary mediations, in our opinion, there has been a certainly serious and deserving position of respect, also because we know well what issue we are facing. These concessions - and this is generally true - are unbalanced in the sense favorable to the concessionaire, as the Court of Auditors has told us in various reports, so it was still necessary to intervene with a rebalancing. Other measures which are objectively necessary and represent a step forward have then been included in the decree-law. Returning to the public administration, I think of the stabilization of many precarious (because we all know that in all these years the first employer to have precarious was in fact the public administration) and at the beginning of the path to the employment of socially useful workers in many regions of the South. There are also interventions to strengthen a series of Ministries, as well as to carry out recruitment of personnel in the Police Forces, in the Fire Departments; the recruitment in the Provinces and in the metropolitan cities is reopened, so the local authorities are allowed to complete the new entrances already planned in anticipation of the new rules on turnover. Other important elements concern contributions to municipalities for energy efficiency and sustainable development. (17.29) (Followed by Mr De PETRIS). With regard to the decree-law that we voted a few hours ago, the recruitment of 1,600 type B researchers in universities is financed, 1,034 researchers are promoted. There are 140 million available for the Extraordinary Integration Fund for 2020 and do not say that it cannot be something that interests everyone, majority and opposition, because those who care about crisis situations in their territories know that it was necessary. There is therefore real support for the income of tens of thousands of workers and workers, from the Ilva Group to the huge crowd of call centres and workers in all areas of complex industrial crisis. There are, then, a number of very important social security interventions, which also concern earthquake areas, which certainly do not solve the problems. I have heard many speeches today; there are still many other issues to be addressed, but it is still a question of helping those people who are in the midst of the consequences of the tragedy. Moreover, the decree-law identifies the resources to recognize the ancillary salary to the 60,000 employees of the tax agencies and intervenes not only with a series of important recruitments in the field of health, but also to counter the shortage of doctors; it is not decisive, but we are in emergency. In hospitals, it was agreed that doctors up to the age of seventy may remain in service until 2022, on a voluntary basis, in case of ASL needs, and may be hired, even if only for a fixed period, residents from the third year of the course. Finally, there is the postponement to 30 September 2020 of the deadline for the submission to municipalities of requests for access to facilities for the reopening and extension of commercial and craft activities. I would like to add a lot of other things: the green bonus and that for electric cars, which we had discussed a lot during the examination of the draft budget law. As you can see (this is the speech I used to make), a composition was found in the thousand-pronged decree. Of course there are also shadows and I say this frankly. There are no rules that we would have liked there to be. I think of one for all: we still have the exodus in this country. We discussed this in the budget law, we did not find the composition, but it certainly remains a problem. Personally, I would have liked - and I know that I am speaking on behalf of many other Members - to resolve the difficulties, no longer, once again, with an extension, to finally bring into operation the rule that this Parliament had voted a few years ago unanimously on the prohibition of experimentation for substances of abuse and for xenotraplants. We have worked on it and we thought that this was a good time to find a solution, but at least we have increased the funds for research by alternative and substitute methods: a small step forward, which I hope will be followed by others tomorrow. The measure - and I want to highlight this - helps to make many progresses to many realities in difficulty and to different situations of social suffering. It closes one phase of the majority and opens another, not only to address the measures related to the economic emergency resulting from the impact of the coronavirus, but also to carry forward with seriousness and determination the policies for employment, ecological transition, innovation, tax and social justice. That is why we will vote in favour of the measure and trust in the government. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u162	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u163	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u164	Mr Parrini (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the light of the debate that has taken place so far on this measure to extend the legislative deadlines, I will probably make a speech that seems abnormal. I will try to talk about the merit of the measure, which many have decided not to do, to give us sermons full of watchwords, which seemed as tired and lazy as they were unfounded. How can we concentrate the discussion on a provision of this importance on the obsession with the request for an early vote, with a flood of phrases made, of clichés that have really gotten tired, for which it is very difficult not to feel annoyance, we cannot understand. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] This measure, as long as our legislative work is structured as it is today (and the majority agreement is not sufficient to reform) is of great importance, because it represents at the beginning of the year a necessary completion of the choices made by the budget law; it is difficult to examine it separately from the budget law. We, in making this assessment in the explanation of vote, must remember that with the budget law we have made a significant break from the past (for the blocking of VAT, for the increase of salaries, for the increase of the fight against tax evasion, for the measures in health), and with the choices that are within the measure of extension deadlines we complement, in a certain sense, that work. As has been said in the previous speech, one phase is closed to open another, which will have to be a strong commitment to policies of growth and social cohesion. I think we should pay close attention to certain measures. I do not want to list - and rightly so - the measures that are in this decree-law, but they are very important from our point of view for the public administration, for the stabilization of the precarious in the public employment, for the recruitment. The measures taken for judicial administration, overtime and recruitment in the defence and security sectors, the police forces and the fire department are very important. The measures, which are present in this decree-law, to extend the green bonus and the interventions to support the investments of companies operating on foreign markets, as well as the measures to facilitate the municipalities that have to make energy efficiency interventions are important. We also believe that the decisions taken by the Government, and then by the Parliament that confirmed these choices, in terms of strengthening and extending income support measures for companies and workers in complex industrial crisis areas, and in particular for workers in Ilva and call centres, are important. To us it seems that the sign of fairness is well imprinted on this measure and we really do not understand, in the light of its contents, how we can - and it has been done abundantly also in today's debate - show so much disinterest in the fact that with this legislative measure we give concrete answers to the needs of companies and families; we face emergencies, however we want to put it. We have reacted to all this by saying that we are faced with a "tipping law." Where are the tips? We don't see them. We have reacted to all this by saying that we must go and vote. But you have to go and vote on what? Now we have to vote on this measure if we want to have at heart the needs of the families and businesses of this country. We are told that we are united only by the fear of Matthew Salvini. Don't overestimate yourself, colleagues of the League: we are not united by the fear of Matthew Salvini [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , but from the desire to make useful proposals for this country and to distance it more and more from the edge of the ravine towards which the arrogance of Matteo Salvini had brought us. This is the thing that unites us and you should... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u165	What's going on? I see some excitement.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u166	Mr Parrini (PD). You should, in our opinion, try to be more constructive, demonstrate a greater sense of responsibility and recognize the measures useful for what they are: things that do good to Italy and the Italians. But once again you have shown that you are poorly capable of doing this. And even the noise, the buzz, the attempt to disturb my intervention, which you put on the field quite ridiculously, is proof of your inefficiency. [[Applause from the PD Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u167	Senator Parrini, in reality the disturbance was not so important, indeed; if anything, he testified that a part of the Senate was listening to her, so I could even rejoice. MIRABELLI (PD). It's always worth it, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It is always true, when it is not such as to cause a real non-sustainable disorder.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u168	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u169	I don't see you, President Grasso.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u170	[[Comments.]] Not Fat, but Fat: I apologize: it's a "I"; you're two. You have the floor, Senator Grassi. GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, thank you for your qualification, which I still do not belong to, because I am not President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is They'll do it, they'll do it, Totò said. [[Laughter. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] GRASSI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, these days a wish for good wishes is always welcome. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the thousand-pronged decree-law is notoriously an administrative act - in the broadest sense, allow me to say this - improperly entrusted to the role of a primary standardisation act. Thus, the conversion of the decree-law should be little more than an act-taking, yet also what appears as a merely technical object, as often happened in life, can tell a lot about the one or those who wrote it, wanted it and designed it. This decree-law indicates that in the background there is a noisy lack of planning for the country. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It is a missed opportunity: a decree-law in which there should be room for divergences in urgent terms turns into a package of heterogeneous, micro-sectoral measures and without any coordination between them. If I may, I can give some examples. Article 6 refers to the extension of time limits for education, universities and research. Paragraph 1 provides for the extension of the remaining amounts of loans granted by the Cassa depositi e loani per interventi di edificazione universitye. Three universities are involved, who have made a joint note that, due to the complexity of the contracts, they will not be able to complete the works within the given deadline. In the background, procurement legislation, which has long been calling for reform. Article 35 refers to provisions on motorway concessions: this is a rule with clear legal profiles, which could be the subject of normal legislative procedure, allowing this Parliament to work and do its job. It is envisaged, in particular, that, in the event of the revocation, revocation or resolution of concessions of roads or highways, for the period necessary for the identification of the new concessionaire, Anas may assume the management of the roads. This procedure is by way of derogation from Article 176 (5-a) of the Code of Public Contracts. The rule points out that this majority, once again, intervenes with isolated regulations in matters of much broader scope and gravity. This rule is the expression of a majority that does not decide, leaving an issue unanswered that should be addressed decisively, in one way or another, to give clarity and certainty to the country. Article 12 contains an extension of time limits for economic development and, in paragraph 1, provides incentives for the purchase of electric motor vehicles. In the course of the intense activities of the Commissions has not been approved the Galli proposal, aimed to allow the cession of the relative tax deduction to the subjects that acquire and install the infrastructures of recharge and to the suppliers that have carried out the participations or to other subjects, analogous to what already previewed for the participations of energetic requalification. The theme of the conversion of the fleet to electric motors is once again addressed in isolation, without the background having been a serious intercourse with the most important automotive manufacturer in this country. In this way, without proper planning, we are promoting other producers, who do not belong to this country, with serious damage to our economy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]] These are examples that demonstrate the absence of a project for the country and this happens at a time when it is more than ever necessary to study a plan to relaunch the economy, which I would call extraordinary, in support of businesses and families. Today we are voting on recruitment to the Ministry for cultural goods and activities and for tourism, funding for specific academies and schools and contributions for thousands of euros to a famous convent complex. The thousand-pronged decree - that is the point - cannot be isolated from a wider programming, otherwise it becomes only an act of low administration, mortifying for Parliament. Effective answers are needed for companies and employment and there is no attention to the productive and efficient part of the country that instead, today more than ever, needs help: 160 are the crisis tables open to the Ministry of Economic Development and the number is increasing, because the Government has not had the courage to say that the plastic tax is killing our companies and has already brought a contraction of the investments in our country by large industrial subjects, irreversibly damaging the development of Italy; and so no solution for Taranto, no commitment for Whirpool and then - again - the problem of Alitalia and Air Italy. We would have liked to find much more not only in the decree-law, but in the politics of this government. We have proposed many amendments to intervene on the new rules on withholding taxes and tax compensation in the field of procurement and subcontracting. I am thinking of changes to the starting date and the implementing rules in order to give companies sufficient time to adapt their management processes (these are times that vary, at best, from four to six months); to the exclusion of local authorities from the application of Article 4 of the so-called tax decree 2019; to the increase of the ceiling for the purposes of the application of the discipline now cited. Today we ask that they be given, on the model Genoa, that it has proved efficient, more powers to the mayors in order to give contracts, to open yards and to relaunch the public works. The infrastructure of this country, which we are talking about, is now forgotten. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It could be established that 50% of these jobs were normally assigned to small and medium-sized enterprises, all of which were evoked but always set aside and put on the margins, which are the ones suffering the most from the current state of emergency. We have proposed amendments to intervene on the flat tax, with the reinstatement to 20% for compensation between 65,000 and 100,000 euros from 1 January 2021; on the mini flat tax, with the extension of one year of the entry into force of the new limits of access to the mini flat tax regime up to 65,000 euros. We have proposed the non-reconfirmation of the mini flat tax for higher incomes, which this year would have seen the rate of 20% of the Irpef and IRAP, equal to 20% of the income for natural persons operating business or self-employment activities with incomes between 65,000 and 100,000 euros. These are critical profiles. Moreover, for the scale up to 65,000 euros, although remaining, the audience is seen to decrease due to increased stakes, over which I fly for brevity. We would have liked to find answers to a crisis announced. The health emergency - this yes, serious - that struck our country was in some way predictable and it is not acceptable that the rulers did not notice it in time. We had to and could act sooner and better to avoid this state of emergency, which is currently being managed in a medialy unacceptable way. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We are offering an incredible advantage to the other countries which, with contempt for the much praised union of the European countries, act for their benefit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We hope to see early action in the field of taxation and social security, with an exemption from tax payments and the payment of the so-called scrapping-b which expires on 28 February - let us not forget - for taxpayers in the areas affected by the outbreaks where the virus is present and a free tax zone of a few months after the emergency is over. In fact, even when it is officially over, the emergency will take into account its consequences for a long time that must be managed right now. The worst scenario must be envisaged in order to be able to plan the interventions properly. A trade and crafts fund is needed and proposals such as dry coupons on commercial properties are proposed again. I don't want to take advantage of the time I've been given. I believe I have adequately motivated the reason why the League-Salvini Premier-Party of Sardinian Action declares its vote against the question of trust posed by the Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u171	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u172	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u173	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, dear representative of the Government, whom I thank for the patience, for being here today, alone, to listen to us, and dear colleagues, today - so, for the Cabal - we celebrate the thirteenth trust of the Government Count II, the twenty-eighth speaking only of those placed on the measures between the Government Count I and the Government Count II. How long has it been and what has changed since Senator Taverna shouted from the opposition benches here in the Senate, drifting, slamming at the state and dictatorship of the majority of the PD government? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The same PD with which today governs serenely. How long has it been and what has changed since Mr Di Battista, in the Chamber, accused the PD government, the same PD with which today the Movimento 5 Stars governs, of putting trust, in order to approve - I apologize for the term - its scumbags? How long has it been and what has changed since the current super-minister Di Maio intervened in this Chamber talking about democratic emergency, institutional aberration, referring to the issues of trust of the PD governments of the last legislature, with which he governs? (17.54) (Follows GALLONE). Those memorable days, apparently, will remain frozen in history, will not return, but we will preserve and perpetuate its memory. And today resonates a deafening silence in front of the dozens of oppositions of trust posed by the Government Count I and Count II, "vengeance," I must say. Article 77 of the Constitution is clearly violated, as is Article 70, which states that it is Parliament that is responsible for legislate, that the legislative prerogative is of these Aules. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The decisions of the Constitutional Court, which referred to the obligations of homogeneity of matters and a law which should be functional and specialised, were of no use. All unsuspected. This decree-law contains extensions of terms relating to such a wide and uneven range of subjects, as Mr Pagano recalled this morning, and in the most varied areas, to go beyond any imagination. Extension of the time limits for territorial authorities, but not resolving the problems of territorial authorities (see the lack of municipal secretaries or local police for municipalities, where Forza Italia continues to intervene, even a little 'effectively, with a small amendment, for example, approved in the House). I am thinking of the disarray against the citizens of the earthquake areas, which, instead of addressing important and shared issues, remain outside the text because the issue of extending the exemption of houses that cannot be used after the earthquake from the ISEE calculation has remained out of the question. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] There are 90,000 houses that cannot be used only in Central Italy, which since January 1 of this year, thanks to the fact that the Government has not included this extension in the text that has been issued, are likely to be counted for the purposes of the calculation of the ISEE. I believe that we are faced with an unacceptable paradox. And again, the provision in our examination brings an extension of the time limits in the matter of justice, not resolving the problems of justice (see lack of administrative staff in the courts and see the issue of limitation that has not been addressed). [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Extension of terms on infrastructure, where the rule on motorway concessions contained in the decree will add confusion and cause damage to thousands of workers and hundreds of Italian companies committed to work on our motorway network and risk causing damage to the country's treasury because there will obviously be likely penalties to be paid to the Union due to complaints from the European Union itself, not to mention the reputation of our country among international investors. What you have to expect from those who run a public good like highways is that they do it with diligence, responsibility and, in this case, that they really take care of maintenance. The extension of time limits for the environment is without effective solutions. Spot interventions are simply planned with a system of transition to the circular economy that still sees Rome, the capital of Italy, forced like the cuckoo that puts the eggs in the nest of others to bring the waste to other regions for the dullness of the grill administration not wanting to create plants. As regards the extension of the deadlines for social policies, culture, universities and trade: I am thinking of the dry coupon on rents not extended, which will give the coup d' grace to neighborhood shops and shops. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] With the extension of time limits you intervene on the subject of school: you still cannot understand the serious vulnus that you are creating, creating unacceptable discrimination between state schools and equal schools, also discriminating against their staff and preventing families from choosing education, not to mention the collapse that would affect the state school - undersecretary Malpezzi, you know that I am not referring to you - without the alliance and support of the peer school. With regard to the extension of school and work deadlines, I quote the plan for the internationalization of cleaning in schools, launched without considering the functionality or the consequences of this fake stabilisation, as denounced by the National Association of Cleaning and Integrated Services (ANIP) - Confindustria, which instead will create at least 5,000 unemployed. With regard to the extension of time limits for banks, I would like to stress yet another bad figure of the Government on the savings compensation fund: after having buzzed in the media and economic newspapers an amendment by the rapporteurs that would have allowed an advance payment of 40%, the amendment was declared inadmissible because of the extraneousness of the matter compared to all the other contents in the milleproroghe. Those who have more of them, thus revealing the total lack of vision and organization that makes you work by looking at the tip of your shoes. However, we will react to violence against institutions by using the weapon of seriousness and competence. We understand that the only place where you can still gather some confidence is inside the classrooms; but, in doing so, you are killing democracy at the strokes of urgent decree: twenty-eight blows. Italy has a beastly physicist to keep resisting, but today we are approaching the celebration of the extreme anointing of the perfect bicameralism even before the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, who will permanently take away the voice of the citizens. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And I say extreme anointing and not funeral to leave a glimmer of hope compared to the fact that something can happen to lift the country from the iattura of yet another abusive government, using the definition moreover given by the 5 Star Movement when the government was not them, but their allies. We celebrate at the same time to the Chamber and the Senate the rite of trust even at first reading, as happened for the decree intercepts last week in the Senate and today to the confidence of the Chamber; decree-law, moreover, that will bring the country back to the good dark times of the inquisition. As an opposition we are dismayed because we are dismayed that you are doing everything by yourself: you are taking away our work, you are singing it and you are playing it; you go hand in hand, but in the meantime you are fighting while the country is languishing. However, it is no longer time for superficiality and incompetence because we are now at the very end of the line. You can't joke anymore: Italy is facing an unprecedented crisis. I am talking about a health crisis and, as a result, a terrible economic crisis, of which the very heavy burden is evident, in order to deal with which it will be necessary to mobilize every resource and to make every effort. We hope with all our heart, for the good of the country, that you will not use this emergency as an excuse for your failed Italian choices. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You do not just gag Parliament and, consequently, the citizens, of whom we are the highest representation, but you are arrogant of every role, arguing and threatening, but remaining firm to the Government even with the obvious limitations, especially at a time when much more authority and standing would require us. I reserve the right to deliver the full text of my speech in order to be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting and to conclude. Let me point out, Mr President, once again, in order to fully motivate the contrary vote of the Forza Italia Group, how this yet another armored measure is in fact the concern of any democratic involvement. Who, like me, has also been present in this House in the benches of the parliamentary majority, remembers well how much collaboration there was with the oppositions. We could also have accepted your political arrogance, your institutional rudeness, if it had been justified by the care for the country. But the country is plummeting and we have the power today to be a parachute and tomorrow as a engine engine, when the center-right will finally be able to return to the government because the citizens can express themselves. That's why Forza Italia will not trust the Government on this measure. You see, dear colleague Parrini, exponent of that PD that until recently shouted from the opposition benches with force and with interventions full of what you have called sentences made, we have not changed our mind. Tips we see and we want to go and vote, unlike you who have accepted a repairing marriage rather than going home. [[Comments of Senator Mirabelli]] Don't worry. Take care of yourself. I conclude by reminding myself that, if the beauty of democracy is that everyone can speak, the greatness of a government should lie in the ability to listen. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u174	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u176	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are discussing the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 162 of 2019, the so-called milleproroghe, which intervenes in many matters as a broad governmental tradition. This measure contains very important measures that impact on the real life of Italians, some of which are daughters of historical battles of the Movimento 5 Stars and were part of our program for years. So, we are particularly proud to be able to approve them. I want to review them briefly, limiting myself to what I think is most significant. As regards respect for the environment, the fight against climate change and the reduction of greenhouse gas production, the decree-law to our examination extends the incentives for the purchase of electric and hybrid vehicles to the whole of 2020. Thanks to an amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars in the Chamber we lowered the threshold of gaseous emissions from engines below which it is possible to access the incentives. In this way we strengthen even more the environmental content of the measure, confirming that for us in Movimento 5 Stars the environment is not a slogan but is a commitment that we put into every action of our government. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Still in the context of combating climate change and more precisely in the area of renewable energy production, our amendment gives the possibility to citizens, whether they are condominiums of the same building, traders, craftsmen or even public administrations, to join in consumption group to share the produced renewable electricity, which can therefore be consumed on the spot, stored to be used at night or fed into the network for the unused part. Again, always in the environmental field, in this marine and terrestrial case, and always thanks to our amendments to the House, we extend to thirty months the moratorium on drilling and air gun practice for the research and extraction of fossil fuels. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We move forward, six months, both the deadline for the Sustainable Energy Transition Plan for suitable areas (Pitesai) and the blockage of drills and air gun, which have unacceptable effects on whales, sperm whales and dolphins, but also on plankton: essentially, on the marine ecosystem. The next step - and this is our wish - will be to definitively ban new drillings on the national territory to protect our environment, with the objective of relaunching, improving them, renewable energy productions, as well as the redevelopment of the country's energy. The objective is twofold and we tend both to have an energy planning that protects more and more the fragile and precious areas of our Italy, and to give further impetus to economic and technological development based on respect for the environment: the green new deal. Once again ours are concrete facts and zero chatter. As regards citizens' pockets, in particular the planned end of the protected electricity and gas market, we postpone the deadline to 2022 for households and micro-enterprises and 2021 for other entities. The deadline for this year was unsustainable, because so many consumers are still not informed about the transition to the free market and what it involves. But above all, we have verified that only a small part of the current offers on the free market, intended for households, provided for prices equal to or lower than the current ones on the protected market. So, without our intervention, the transition from the protected market to the free one would have meant higher bills for millions of Italians: 22 million would have been the families involved. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This was unacceptable to us and we avoided it. The next step will be to ensure that the free market, the real one, i.e. competition, has as a result a decrease in the bills and not their increase. With regard to the contrast to precarious work and the battle for the dignity of workers, one of the cornerstones of the political action of the Movimento 5 Stars, we legalize in this matter extending, until 31 December 2021, the possibility of stabilising precarious civil servants. As you know, we have already spoken in this matter in the private sector with the so-called dignity decree, which, unlike the false predictions of the prophets of misfortune, which in this House, too, had marked it as 'decree unemployment', the dignity decree was a resounding success. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'AZ Group]] It has produced almost 300,000 more permanent contracts, with increases of more than one hundred percent compared to previous periods, inverting a negative trend that the good ones, those who ruled before, were carrying on since 1997: these are the results. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Lucidi]] We took the insults and the laughter of the solos on duty and of those who evidently do not care about the Italians, but the facts proved us right. Keep laughing at us while we're interested in Italians. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'AZ Group]] Now I come to the theme that we at Movimento 5 Star is very close to heart, which concerns the management and valorization of public goods and how virtuous and enlightened managements are decisive in a process of sustainable economic development and that looks to the future. But there is another aspect to this issue, namely how much it is our duty, as representatives of the people, to do exclusively the interests of the citizens and not that of the lobbyists, the economic potentates and the friends who finance the electoral campaigns or the media. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'AZ Group]] I am referring to the matter of motorway concessions and the gifts that in the past the State, with its articulations, and the politics have done to the private entrepreneur, accepting to sign a contract that exclusively favored the concessionaire - that is, Motorways for Italy, controlled by Atlantia and therefore by the Benetton family - to the detriment of the conceder, that is, to the detriment of all of us citizens. With that totally unbalanced and insane contract from the economic and financial point of view, the concessionaire has been allowed to make huge and secure gains, far greater than any other example in the world of market operators in the same sector, without risk of enterprise. So much for the free market of which many people in this House are filling their mouths! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The cloth has always been the usual: they want to privatise profits and collect losses, that is the dream of every pseudo - the real one does not do so - entrepreneur. It is a mockery, and an insult to the millions of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who constitute the productive backbone of our country, who every day raise the shutter of their activity and ask nothing to the State, indeed with taxes contribute to the collective well-being! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Bursium]] Mr President, I would ask you to be able to make my speech with a minimum of peace. [[Call the president back.]] That crazy contract then contained almost hilarious clauses, if they were not tragic for the country, such as - for example - providing the right for the concessionaire to be recognized as a billionaire compensation in the event of the withdrawal of the concession, even if it resulted from serious defaults of the concessionaire itself. This gift - I would like to remind you - despite the warnings and censorship of the control and regulation bodies, was armored by law, between 2007 and 2008, between the Prodi and Berlusconi governments. We had to come here to change things! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] In article 35 of this decree milleproroghe it is established that, if the extinction of the concession derives from default of the concessionaire, the article 186, paragraph 4, letter a) of the legislative decree no. 50 of 2016, the so-called code of the contracts, also in place of the eventual dissimilar clauses present in the convention, even if approved by law - as in this case - that are to be understood nulle. We are talking about serious defaults. Well, do you have to explain to me what still has to happen so that the failure of Autostrade to Italy is clear? Isn't the 43 dead on the Morandi Bridge enough? It is not enough the pieces of fallen gallery, where a massacre was avoided by chance? [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Isn't it enough for the appalling results of the investigations on the Morandi bridge, on that tragedy, to show that the lack of maintenance was caused only by the desire to make more money and more useful to distribute to shareholders and management? Who cared about citizens' lives anyway? So there was the prescription, which deleted everything, as happened in Viareggio, as happened in the Eternit case and as happened many other times! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] With this rule, we have restored the primacy of public interest, the primacy of human life over greed and money! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Live comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] We got to the whistle, but that's fine. Finally, we blocked the increase from 2020 of motorway tolls until the presentation by the concessionaire of an updated financial economic plan. [[... (The microphone switches off automatically]] Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u177	You can deliver the text, Senator Pellegrini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u178	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). In conclusion, I would like to say that the gifts in this field are well-finished. He's changed his record. As far as this is concerned, I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Parliamentary Group on the question of trust. I proudly announce it! [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]] . PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u179	I refer to the vote on the single article of bill No. 1729, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law No. 162 of 30 December 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. Each senator called by the Senator Secretary will have to vote before the Presidency. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Siclari is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Siclari. (Senator Secretary Carbone and then Senator Secretary Durnwalder make the appeal.) The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bini, Boldrini, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Campagna, Cario, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Cerno, Cioffi, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Falco, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Ferrara, Ferrari, Giarazza, Donno, Dornwalder Endrizzi, Evangelista Faraone, Fattori, Fede, Fedeli, Feneli, Ferrarari, Ferraari, Ferrazzi, Piazza, Floriazzi, Flori PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of the sole article of bill no. 1729, of conversion to law, with amendments, of decree-law no. 162 of 30 December 2019, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has posed the question of trust: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 250 Majority 126 Favorables 154 Contrari 96]] The Senate approves. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]] All amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 162 are therefore excluded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u180	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that tomorrow, at the end of the Minister of Health's report on coronavirus, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure is convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u181	I announce that the Conference of Leaders has established that next week, starting on Wednesday 4 March, at 9.30 a.m., the decrees-laws on the epidemiological emergency COVID-19 and on the reduction of the tax burden on employees will be discussed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u182	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly from 27 February to 5 March 2020: [[Thursday 27 February h. 9 - Statement by the Minister of Health on Coronavirus]] [[Wednesday, March 4, h. 9,30 - Drawing of law n.... - Decree-Law n. 6, Ecological Emergency COVID-19 (where transmitted in good time by the Chamber of Deputies) (decades on April 23) - Drawing of law n. 1698 - Decree-Law n. 3, Reduction of the tax burden on employees (final vote by March 7) (decades on April 5) Thursday 5 " h. 9,30]] The deadline for tabling amendments to the draft law No... (Decree-Law No 6, Epidemiological Emergency COVID-19) will be set in relation to the timing of transmission by the Chamber of Deputies. Time distribution for discussion of the draft law n.... (Decree-Law No 6, Ecological Emergency COVID-19) (7 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 40' Government 40' Votes 40' Groups 5 hours, of which: M5S 1h 5' FI-BP 48' L-SP-PSd'Az 47' PD 36' Mixed 28' FdI 27' IV-PSI 27' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 23' Dissentents 5']] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1698 (Decree-Law No. 3, Tax reduction on employees) (10 hours, excluding explanations of vote) [[Rapporteurs 60' Government 60' Votes 60' Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 31' FI-BP 1h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 6' PD 50' Mixed 39' FdI 38' IV-PSI 38' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u183	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-26-LEG18-Senato-sed-196.ana.u184	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 27 February, at 9 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting is closed at 19.14.
