ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1171. The rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u5	Mr President, as you mentioned, the House is called upon to examine the draft law ratifying the October 2013 Minamata Convention on Mercury. The Convention takes the name of the Japanese locality the scene of one of the worst environmental disasters in history, caused by the decade-long spills of mercury-contaminated waste water, operated by a local industry. It entered into force internationally on 16 August 2017 and at the moment it has been ratified by 114 countries. It consists of 35 articles and five annexes. It addresses the entire life cycle of mercury, from primary extraction to waste management, and aims to protect health and the environment from emissions of mercury and its compounds into air, water and soil. In particular, it has restrictions on the extraction and international trade of mercury, prohibits the manufacture of a wide range of mercury-added products, restricts the use of mercury in industrial products and processes and the adoption of measures to reduce emissions from gold mining at an artisanal level and from industrial activities. As the report on the draft law points out, ratification of the Convention will not have any significant impact on our production and economic system, since over the years Italy has already adapted to the European regulations and directives governing aspects covered by the international text. The draft ratification law consists of five articles. The total costs of the measure for Italy, including costs for the implementation of the text, for the participation in the Conference and for the obligations deriving from being a State Party, are equal to 482,660 euros for the year 2020, 440,000 euros to alternate years from 2021 and 452,660 euros to alternate years from 2022. I would point out that an amendment by the rapporteur has shifted the initial economic burden for this measure from 2019 to 2020. The Convention does not present any profiles of incompatibility with national law, European law or other international obligations assumed by our country. I therefore propose the adoption of the draft law by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u6	I note that the Budget Committee has not yet given its opinion on the measure before our examination, and I refer the continuation of the debate on the draft law to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u7	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1168. The rapporteur, Senator Airola, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House is called upon to examine the draft law of government initiative that brings about the ratification of two protocols signed in 2016 to the 1944 Convention on International Civil Aviation - also known as the Chicago Convention - the international legal instrument that establishes the principles underlying civil aviation and world air transport, which also regulates the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO), the United Nations body that brings together the civil aviation authorities of 193 countries around the world (date updated to April 2019). In order to allow for the extension of the number of seats in the Council and the Air Navigation Commission and thus to ensure the widest overall representativeness within the Agency's governing bodies, the Assembly of the Civil Aviation Institute, held in autumn 2016, adopted two specific amending protocols to the Convention establishing it. In particular, the Protocol concerning an amendment to Article 50 (a) of the Convention adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 94 of the Convention; it extends the number of members of the Council from 36 to 40. In turn, the Protocol on an amendment to Article 56 of the Convention, which was also adopted in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 94 of the Convention, extends the number of members of the Air Navigation Commission from 19 to 21. The draft ratification of the two protocols to the Convention on International Civil Aviation consists of four articles. Article 3, in particular, lays down a clause of financial invariance, establishing that the provisions in question of ratification should not result in new or greater burdens on public finances. As can be seen from the technical and regulatory analysis accompanying the draft law, the regulatory intervention does not present profiles of incompatibility with national legislation or with the European Union law and other international obligations entered into by our country. In conclusion, the draft law is proposed by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u9	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and I do not believe that the representative of the Government - whose absence I denounce - intends to speak. Pending the 20-minute deadline from the beginning of the sitting referred to in Rule 119 of the Rules of Procedure, I suspend the sitting, hoping that the Government will be present. (The sitting was suspended at 9.41 a.m. and resumed at 9.52 p.m.) The session is resumed. I'll ask the government representative if he wants to intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u10	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u11	I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u12	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u13	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u14	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the Italian Group Viva-PSI.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u15	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u17	Mr Alfieri (PD). Mr President, I would like to say that the Group of the Party of European Socialists is in favour of this ratification and the subsequent ratification, which is of a technical nature and which we have had the opportunity to deepen in the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u18	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u20	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I am voting in favour of the ratification of the Protocols under consideration and also of the following.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u21	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u23	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am voting in favour of this Convention because it is in favour of defence and the environment and it is particularly sensitive.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u24	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u26	PACIFIC (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, today the Assembly is called upon to ratify and implement two Protocols, relating to the amendments to Article 50 (a) and Article 56 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation, signed in Montreal on 6 October 2016. In the original text, concluded in Chicago on 7 December 1944, the Council of the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) was expected to be composed of 12 members appointed by the Council among the persons designated by the Contracting States. The articles we are talking about over the years have been updated precisely in order to be more and more adherent to the needs of the signatories. In this context, the extension of the number of seats of the Council and the Commission has become essential in order to ensure the widest representation within the governing body of the organisation. We are therefore called upon to vote on bill 1168, for which the Movimento 5 Star Group votes in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u27	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u28	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1376. The working rapporteur, Senator Petrocelli, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the working rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u29	, f. f. Mr President, I shall be presenting the report in place of the rapporteur, Senator Jacob. The Assembly is called upon to examine the bill ratifying the Convention establishing the Square Kilometre Array Observatory, with Annexes, made in Rome in March 2019. I would like to remind you that Square Kilometre Array (SKA) is an international radio wave detection project, using a radio telescope under construction in Australia and South Africa, aimed at probing deep space. The infrastructure, which once built will be the largest research radio telescope in the world, will increase the maximum observation capacity of the universe currently existing in the radio band by fifty times and will allow simultaneous observations to be made of different areas of the sky, also ensuring important applications in the field of mobile telephony, by optimizing the use of the radio band intended for mobile communications. Indicated as one of the most important projects by the roadmaps produced by the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures (ESFRI), that is, by those strategic documents on the overall vision of the European Research Infrastructure System, on which the future of the scientific competitiveness of the entire continent is based, the SKA infrastructure will represent a global vanguard, paving the way for the development of new knowledge on the fundamental laws that govern the universe and on technological innovations potentially with high social impact. Italy, which boasts a remarkable tradition in the field of radio astronomy and is involved in numerous international projects in this field, has participated in the project since the year 2000, through the National Institute of Astrophysics (INAF) and has joined the foundation of the SKA Organization, the society under English law to which the various national agencies of the participating countries have entrusted the task of preparing the technical aspects of the infrastructure. The involvement of INAF in the SKA project has been thought, since the early years, as a flywheel not only scientific, but also economic and industrial, given the involvement of many Italian companies in the sector. The introductory report to the measure underlines, in particular, that the Italian participation in the project assumes the value of an industrial policy instrument such as to allow the national industry to increase its presence in emerging geographical areas of the world, starting from Africa, where it will reside a large part of the antennas of the infrastructure itself or to consolidate its position in other areas with which already flourishing commercial relations are shared, as in the case of Australia, where the remaining part of the plant will be allocated. The bill of ratification of this Convention consists, as is usual, of five articles. With regard to the economic burdens arising from the implementation of the measure, Article 3 assesses them in EUR 12 million for each year from 2020 to 2029 for construction costs; in EUR 1 million per year, from 2030 for management expenditure; in EUR 7.680 per year, from 2020, for mission expenditure. By not presenting the text profiles of incompatibility with national legislation or with European law and other international obligations entered into by our country, it is proposed that the draft law in question be approved by the Assembly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u30	There are no members to speak in the general discussion and the representative of the Government does not intend to speak. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on the draft law before us, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u31	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u33	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am speaking only to declare Italy Viva-PSI's vote in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u34	I recall that Senators Alfieri and De Petris have already declared their Group's vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u37	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I briefly voted in favour of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione Group. I would just add that this is a very important bill of ratification and is part of a broad framework of Italian scientific research. This time we see the protagonist of the National Institute of Astrophysics (INAF). I would also like to stress that Parliament's reaction has been ready: this bill, which was also created on the initiative of the former Minister for Education and Scientific Research, is completed in less than a year. There has therefore been a very prompt response from Parliament to a demand from the scientific world, which I think will welcome this work. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u40	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, given the importance of this great radio telescope, which will be one of the largest research infrastructures ever carried out and will allow a thorough study of the observation of the universe through a wide radio band, I declare the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u41	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I suspend the sitting until 12 noon when the Minister of Health's urgent information on coronavirus will take place. (The sitting was suspended at 10.05 a.m. and resumed at 12:01 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u42	The next item is the urgent statement by the Minister for Health on coronavirus. After the intervention of the representative of the Government, each group will have five minutes available. I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u43	Mr President, I am very pleased to be able to report to the Senate - as I did to the House a few hours ago - updated information on the outbreak of the new coronary virus and on the initiatives that have been launched not only at national level but also at international level in order to counter its spread. In advance, before addressing the most specific and specific aspects of the current epidemiological situation, I would like to ensure that the Ministry of Health, with the support of the institutions, organizations and national and international bodies involved, constantly follows the developments of the situation that have come to determine with the diffusion of the coronavirus and monitors with the utmost attention the possible occurrence on the national territory of pathologies that can be traced back to the contagion originated from the aforementioned virus. Coronaviruses are RNA viruses present both in the animal world and in humans. They are a large family of respiratory viruses that can cause diseases ranging from common cold to Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome and SARS. There are four known human coronaviruses up to now - human coronavirus (HCoV) 229E, OC43, NL63 and HKU1 - and usually cause high respiratory tract diseases. Animals represent an important reservoir for many coronaviruses. Some of these - for example the SARS coronary virus and what causes the so-called Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome - have been able to make the leap of species from the animal to man. In these cases the virus, whose RNA undergoes a mutation, to be precise a deletion, quickly adapts to man by beginning to be transmitted from person to person. The current crisis is caused by a new coronavirus of animal origin that caused 41 cases of viral pneumonia between 8 December and 2 January in the city of Wuhan, China. The virus, identified and sequenced in just over a week, is a similar coronavirus, but different from that of SARS, with which it would share between 70 and 80 percent of the genetic patrimony. On 31 December 2019, the Wuhan Municipal Health Commission reported to the World Health Organisation a cluster of pneumonia cases with unknown aetiology in the city of Wuhan, in the Chinese province of Hubei, South China. Most of the cases had an epidemiological link with the Huanan Seafood market, a wholesale market for seafood and live animals. After the first reporting of this cluster, other cases of pneumonia due to the new coronavirus were found in travellers who had stayed in Wuhan upon their arrival in Thailand, Japan and South Korea, as well as in other Chinese cities. These patients had not attended the market for live animals where exposure to the virus had occurred in the first cases. This has led to the hypothesis of the possibility of interhuman transmission of the infection through close contacts, as happens - for example - within a household or in a hospital. The incubation period of the disease, according to current estimates filmed and updated this very night by WHO in the last report, varies from two to ten days. The most common symptoms consist of fever, dry cough, sore throat, difficulty breathing. X-rays of the chest show widespread bilateral infiltratory lesions. Currently available information suggests that the virus may cause both a mild flu-like form and a more severe form of disease. An initially mild form may progress in a severe form especially in people with pre-existing chronic clinical conditions, such as hypertension or other cardiovascular problems, diabetes, liver disease and other respiratory diseases. Even older people are naturally more susceptible to serious forms. On 9 January 2020, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in China reported that a new coronavirus was identified as a causal agent and the genomic sequence was made public. The new coronary artery is closely related to severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS). According to information, the latest available, sent out by the World Health Organization in the last report of 29 January last - it is yesterday - the total confirmed cases are 6.065, with 132 deaths. Cases have occurred in 30 provinces of mainland China (5,974), Hong Kong (8), Macao (7), Taiwan (8), Malaysia (4), Nepal (1), Sri Lanka (1), Singapore (7), Thailand (14), Japan (7), Cambodia (1), South Korea (4), Vietnam (2), Australia (7), France (4, but a fifth was added to the evening), Germany (4), Canada (3), United States (5), United Arab Emirates (4), and there is also a case in which Finland is concerned and which is not reported in this report. However, the Chinese National Health Commission at 8 a.m. this morning updated the number of cases identified in 7.711, as well as the number of suspected cases (9,239) and related deaths identified this morning in number 170. The Chinese health authorities have naturally confirmed the transmission from person to person and the data - as is evident - are updated daily. The WHO informed that China initially applied the following measures: close contacts, including healthcare professionals, were identified and followed up; Wuhan Municipal Health Commission carried out active case research and the retrospective investigation of the current patient cluster was completed; Huanan's wholesale fish market was closed and environmental sanitization measures were carried out; risk communication activities were implemented to increase awareness and self-protection measures were taken. As of 23 January 2020, as promptly communicated by the Italian Embassy in China, all air and rail connections from Wuhan and subsequently from other cities in the province of Hubei (including Hangwang, Huanggang and Ezhou) have been suspended; the operation of public transport has been interrupted and the highways of access, meeting places, such as markets, cinemas, Internet cafes and cultural sites have also been closed. In addition, New Year's events have been suspended and the sites that are being assembled (including the Forbidden City) have also been closed in Beijing. In order to further reduce travel between regions of China, but also abroad, the Chinese Government has blocked the sale of domestic and international tourist packages by all travel agencies in the last few days - the news goes back to 24 January. Those at risk, those with a high temperature, or who have had close contact with patients, are isolated in quarantine and under medical observation. The city's hospitals have previously expanded the number of beds: 800 in public and 1,200 in different health facilities. The controls are also aimed at the search for live animals illegally transported by motor vehicles. As a precaution, schools have been closed and the Buddhist temples have turned the faithful away. All citizens have been ordered to wear protective masks. The new virus in China, although for the time being classified as type B as dangerous (like SARS, AIDS and polio), is managed as if it belonged to class A (the same as cholera and plague). The Chinese authorities are also taking special measures to ensure the care of infected patients, including the construction of a new hospital, which should already be ready in early February. The authorities have announced that a second will also be built, with a larger number of beds, always in very tight times. We are in constant contact with the World Health Organisation. At the meeting of our task force on 27 January last, the assistant general director Raniero Guerra participated, who said: Among the Western countries, Italy is the most well-stocked and the most attentive. In recent days, WHO Director General Tedros has been to China to assess the situation directly. The WHO is closely monitoring the development of the situation and is regularly in contact with the Chinese national authorities and other Asian countries to provide the necessary support. A technical guide on the new coronavirus has been prepared and is constantly updated. At present, investigations are still under way to assess the actual extent of the epidemic. The WHO gathered, on 22 and 23 January last - there will be a new meeting this afternoon - the Emergency Committee provided for by the International Health Regulations to support the Director-General in the decision on the declaration or not of an emergency of public health of international interest. After lengthy discussions, with divergent views on this decision and taking into account the significant measures put in place by the Chinese authorities, the Committee considered that a new meeting would be planned within about ten days, to be held precisely today, and that in the meantime it would provide guidance on the actions to be implemented, including a mission of WHO experts to China, to deepen scientific and epidemiological knowledge, and guidance to the Chinese authorities for further initiatives or to strengthen those already in place. Information was then given to all other countries to prepare them for containment, including active surveillance, early identification, isolation and case management, contact tracking and prevention of further coronavirus spread. Yesterday - as I said - a new committee meeting was announced at 1 p.m. today, 30 January. The WHO has published a series of documents containing procedures for reporting cases, for their clinical management, operator protection, laboratory tests, contact management and, more generally, surveillance of the epidemiological situation. In its report of 28 January last, WHO also announced the creation of a global database on coronavirus, where countries will be able to include data on clinical cases to facilitate their sharing, for the purposes of knowledge and study. Given that the risk assessment is still in place, the ECDC (European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control), at the date of 26 January 2020, considers that: the potential impact of the coronavirus epidemic is high; a further global spread is likely; there is currently a moderate likelihood of infection for travellers visiting Wuhan; there is a high likelihood of cases being imported into countries with the largest volume of people travelling to and from Wuhan; there is a moderate likelihood of cases being detected imported into the countries of the European Union; adherence to appropriate prevention and control practices in infections, particularly in the health facilities of European countries, with direct links with China, means that secondary cases are likely to arise from a case identified in the European Union is low. The ECDC - as stated in a document of 28 January last - estimates that the occurrence of a single case of local interhuman transmission, which occurred in Germany, from a Chinese citizen - presumably infected by parents resident in Wuhan - to a German citizen, is not sufficient to change the level of general risk described above. Although, as highlighted, the World Health Organisation has not, to date, declared this epidemic an international public health emergency, Italy has immediately activated significant prevention measures. According to the Communication of DG Sante of Brussels of 21 January 2020, of the three European countries that had direct flights from Wuhan, only Italy implemented, before the suspension of flights, airport controls for citizens from the zones of outbreak. It has therefore been recognized, at international level, that our country, inspired by the precautionary principle, has immediately planned and implemented accurate control measures: body temperature measurement, identification and isolation of patients, procedures for tracing and quarantine of close contacts that, together with an efficient epidemiological and microbiological surveillance system, can ensure the rapid containment of any cases. More in detail, I note that Italy had three direct flights to Wuhan, now suspended, and numerous connections with other cities in China. Currently, the flights arriving in Italy are 34 on Fiumicino and 25 on Malpensa. As provided for in the International Health Regulations, a health procedure is in place at the two airports, managed by the peripheral offices of the Ministry of Health, maritime, air and border health offices, health care services for seafarers. These offices are responsible for health checks on passengers and goods transiting through cross-border points of entry and for providing health care to personnel on sea or on board and to air navigation personnel. The procedure adopted is to verify whether symptomatic suspected cases and their possible transfer into bio-content to specialised institutes are on board aircraft from China. The procedure has been implemented and made even more severe as the epidemiological situation in China progresses. It includes the health check during the flight, through a formal request to the commander, and the release of the health declaration; it is expected to pass under thermographic scanners, with warning systems where the temperature exceeds 37 degrees, installed in a special space called health channel; the measure has been extended to all flights from China and provides, alternatively, for flights without prior reporting of suspicious cases, the temperature check on board by our health care personnel, before disembarkation. It should be noted that the healthcare channel is also equipped with spaces for deepening, visits, and temporary stop of the suspected case possibly identified, until its transfer to a specialized hospital. Where there is a suspected case on board, health surveillance shall be activated for close contacts for the possible implementation of quarantine and isolation. This procedure is active on all flights from China. In the days prior to 23 January, the surveillance of passengers on direct flights from Wuhan had been strengthened, with health check during the flight, by official request to the commander of the crew and release of the health declaration. In agreement with the National Civil Aviation Authority, the National Flight Assistance Board has issued an instruction requiring all private flights from China to land exclusively on health airports in Fiumicino and Malpensa. In order to allow for a possible recovery of the contacts in order to submit them to investigations, on 23 January, all the controlled flights are collected, cards with information on the passengers, their destination and the references that are acquired throughout the time of the potential incubation to the acts of the USMAF. Work is under way to reconstruct the movements of passengers from the risky area in the days before this date, also in contact with the health authorities of the other countries concerned. The landing passengers are also provided with a trilingual flyer - Italian, English and Chinese - indicating how to contact the National Health Service through the telephone number of the Ministry of Health 1500. Monitoring of the health status of such passengers is activated through telephone contacts. Already on January 10, before getting to know the etiological agent of the infection, information material was prepared also in Chinese, which was posted at airports to inform international travellers. The material is of course constantly being updated. A survey of the supply of personal protective equipment has been carried out at the various points of entry, ports and airports, and a survey of the country's general availability of these devices is being carried out. Updates related to the event are published regularly on the website of the Ministry of Health and have been prepared and published and the most frequent questions and answers related to the epidemic event are constantly updated. On 22 January 2020, at the office of cabinet of the Ministry of Health, the Coronavirus Task Force was set up and met at the same time, composed of representatives of the Ministry, the Carabinieri of the NAS, representatives of the Higher Institute of Health, Agenas, the Italian Drug Agency, the National Institute of Infectious Diseases Lazzaro Spallanzani of Rome, the Civil Protection, a representative of the Regions, the orders of doctors and nurses, the airport companies SEA and ADR, the State of Defence - General Inspectorate of Military Health. This task force is permanently operational and meets daily and has the task to follow in real time the evolution of the situation determined by coronavirus, supporting the Minister in the identification of every initiative suitable to face the eventual problems emerged. The task force is verifying the state of preparation for a hypothetical worsening of the epidemiological situation as regards human resources, laboratory tests and health care facilities, communications and related procedures. Allow me, also here, to thank warmly on behalf of the Italian Government and I believe that every person who has been involved in the promptness and quality of the work carried out to date. [[Applause.]] At the first meeting of the Task Force, and given that the WHO is examining the issue in order to issue uniform guidelines or recommendations to address the health situation, it was agreed that in the meantime a circular circular on coronavirus should be sent to the regions and other institutions, bodies and professional organisations. This circular contains operational indications on the detection, notification, surveillance, laboratory tests, management of suspected cases provided by the Directorate-General for Prevention. This circular allows targeted surveillance at national level and identifies the Higher Institute of Health as the national reference laboratory. Subsequently, on 27 January, an update was sent concerning the case definition for the reporting and laboratory diagnostics. Of both copies of the two circular deposit text at the Senate of the Republic. The National Federation of Order of Dental Surgeons (FNOMCEO) and the National Federation of Order of Nursing Occupations (FNOPI) reported that they had issued the Ministerial Circular of 22 January 2020 to all provincial orders, while the Defence Staff issued the same to its health services in order to adequately inform the National Armed Forces. The National Blood Centre and the National Transplant Centre have issued circulars in which they provide instructions on measures to prevent the transmission of the new coronavirus by transfusion of unstable blood components and transplants. On the basis of international obligations, the Directorate-General for Prevention constantly informs the European Commission and the countries participating in the Global Health Security Initiative of the measures taken at national level and participates in teleconferences organised to harmonise the response at international level. From what has been reported so far, it appears that Italy is one of the countries that has adopted a more protective approach, recommending, among other things, from the beginning of the epidemic, to postpone the travels not strictly necessary, applying immediately control procedures on flights from China, activating the health channel and screening incoming at airports and providing immediately widespread prevention measures through the most modern telematic tools. There are constant contacts with the Italian Embassy in Beijing, the crisis unit of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation, the European Commissioner, the European centre for disease prevention and control, the World Health Organisation, the World Organisation for Animal Health, participating on all occasions in meetings and teleconferences with such bodies. In addition, yesterday afternoon I personally met the Chinese ambassador to Italy. After expressing our solidarity and appreciation for the severe measures taken in China, I have, above all, represented the readiness of the Ministry of Health to participate, through our scientific institutions, first and foremost with the Higher Institute of Health, in the efforts already undertaken for the rapid implementation of diagnostic, therapeutic and vaccine prevention instruments of infection. We have agreed to ensure a constant link so that the large Chinese community in Italy can be made aware of the additional health measures that Italy might have to assess. The work of the Ministry of Health is fully in line with what is recommended on 23 January 2020 by the WHO at the end of the meeting of the Emergency Committee, which, not considering unanimously the conditions for declaring the existence of an emergency health situation of international interest, has however provided to the Organization's Member States some recommendations concerning the need to be prepared for containment, early identification, isolation and case management, tracing of contacts and prevention, all aspects and measures already put in place in advance by our country. On 25 January a meeting was held with the representatives of the Italian regions, aimed at better interinstitutional coordination, and on 28 January I took part personally in the Health Commission meeting of the Conference of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces on the management of the prevention activities on coronavirus, considering, in agreement with all the regional councillors responsible, fundamental on this matter the maximum coordination between the institutions. Operational staff for the Ministry of Health's public utility number (number 1500), now active 24 hours a day, have been strengthened. It operates both from a centralized point of view of collecting reports of suspicious cases by citizens for subsequent sorting, where necessary, to the health facilities of the regions, as well as to provide information to the population on the virus and the prevention measures to be taken. To this end, initiatives have been taken to strengthen the service with additional staff, which has been subject to a training programme. Last Monday I personally visited the operating room of 1500 to see, in the first person, its full operation. On the 28th of January alone, from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m., the 1500 managed over 700 phone calls, for an average conversation time of about six minutes. In one case, after a first telephone triage, the call was transferred to the regional health facilities, to make access to health facilities in complete safety for the patient and for the other citizens present at the same. The presence of language mediators, who have dealt with several phone calls made in Chinese language, is proving very important, helping to eliminate the possibility of misunderstandings and improving the knowledge of cases and exposure to the risk of contagion. On 25 January 2020 I adopted an order which, in addition to confirming the measures already in place, provided, for a period of ninety days, for the reinforcement of the quota of personnel to be employed in the rapid response activities to the public utility number 1500 for the health checks that I have previously described, activated at the offices of maritime, air and border health (USMAF) and health care to the navigation staff (SANS) and for the services within the competence of the central offices of the Ministry. With regard to our community in Wuhan, the Ministry of Health actively cooperates in the preparation of health procedures related to the management of Italian citizens, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is providing to return from that area and their subsequent management in the health plan. As I reserve every further and timely communication in the coming days on the evolution of the epidemiological framework, I am convinced that the current situation can be best managed through a full and effective collaboration between international institutions and, in the national context, between the Ministry of Health, the national scientific institutes of reference, the regions and the professional orders concerned. We must therefore persevere and intensify cooperation between national states and international organisations, by strengthening the exchange of information at all levels and by implementing, with rigour and timeliness, the best practices deemed suitable to limit the spread of the virus. Personally, I am in constant and constant contact with European Commissioner Stella Kyriakides and my colleagues in the European countries for an exchange of information, awaiting a forthcoming opportunity for comparison between all the countries of the European Union, which I have insistently requested and proposed, also formally, to the Croatian Presidency and to the same Commissioner with - indeed - a formal letter. Similar efforts must be made in the national context with the support of all relevant institutional levels. It is precisely in this sense that a constant and constructive dialogue between the Government and Parliament is essential for me, also as a visible sign of national unity: in particular, it will be necessary to inform health professionals and the population adequately and in a comprehensive way, strictly respect the precautionary measures and protocols already communicated by the Ministry of Health and to give the utmost vigilance in the diagnosis of possible critical events. Ultimately, a systemic and multi-level approach is needed in both national and international areas, to which the Ministry of Health has immediately inspired its action and which will continue to follow in the government of this health emergency. I will also be available in the future, as I have to say, to provide any update on the development of the situation which will be considered useful by this Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u44	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Liceo Scientifico "Ulisse Dini" in Pisa, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u45	I declare open the discussion on the information of the Minister of Health. She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Minister, because through his report, first in the House and now in the Senate, he allows us first of all to talk about such a serious and serious issue in a unified manner. We know that in the face of such a serious situation it is necessary first of all to unite the country. I hope that a serious and orderly debate can be held in the Senate as well as what was held in the House just now. You, Minister, have explained to us what measures have been taken by our country. You reminded us just now that the data is constantly evolving. We know that, to date, there are around 7.711 known cases of coronavirus in the world and only 28 cases outside the Chinese borders. Among the cases outside China are 14 infections in Thailand, 10 in Hong Kong, 5 in the United States and Australia, 5 in France, 3 in Canada and 4 in Germany. To date the victims, all registered in China, are 170, with a mortality around or less than 3%. We also know that very important precautionary measures have been taken immediately, in agreement with the World Health Organisation, as the Minister has just reminded us. However, I would like to appeal to the Minister and to the Government as a whole. It is not only necessary to act - as you well mentioned before - by monitoring and informing Italy, the Government and Parliament promptly of what is happening at international level; I also ask you to make a particular appeal, on your part and on the part of the Government, addressed to the media. I think there has been too much alarmism: so far, fortunately, there are no confirmed cases in Italy. Even this morning, there was talk of some cases that were immediately denied. There is a need, also on the part of information, for great seriousness and great attention. Our country is in fact facing this health emergency with all the tools, which we are already adopting, thanks both to the quality and the great competence of the task force, which was immediately established, both to the experience, the seriousness and the very high professional level of our healthcare professionals, to which is also the thanks of our Assembly for what they are doing throughout the country. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] As the Minister recalled, Italy has taken precautionary measures and has even implemented, before the suspension of flights, airport controls for citizens from the zones of outbreak. We know that all the protocols have been adopted, as emerged following the meeting you held a few days ago with the Italian Regions, and we also know how much work is being done to properly inform the Chinese who live and live in our country. I would also like to make a final appeal with regard to tourism, the economy and how much our businesses are particularly concerned at the moment. This is in fact a major damage to the health and protection of our citizens, but we must also think about being close and actively supporting our companies, operating in the various parts of the world and having contacts with China. I therefore call on the Government and the Minister to inform and continue to monitor the situation in good time. Finally, I appeal to all my colleagues and colleagues: let us take this matter seriously and carefully, because first of all we need the unity of the country. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and PD. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u47	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u48	Mr President, I too would like to thank the Minister for the very precise report and for the very clear data he has given us. I want to do this first because, as you know, hyperalarming news and fake news are circulating online and I therefore believe it is absolutely essential to provide true data, the elements that have been evaluated from the technical and scientific point of view and the appropriate information. This is a fundamental element, because we must be careful not to cause alarms and to manage the situation in an absolutely scrupulous way. In this regard, I would like to acknowledge that the Minister and the Government have acted well and in a timely manner. It is true that, despite the fact that the World Health Organization - as the Minister has just reminded us - had decided not to raise the level of guard, the Ministry of Health has instead put in place all the measures to keep the highest possible level of alert. This was important and, indeed, fundamental because there has been a promptness and the problem has not been underestimated at all: this has enabled the task force to be set up not only immediately and properly, but also to alert all bodies to the protection of health and public health. Coordination with the regions is also very important, because they are also the owners of health care interventions. I think it is equally important to insist on real and real coordination at European level, because it is absolutely central. Here again we are the door of Europe, so I believe that it would be absolutely essential that there is a much more systematic possibility of coordination at European level. Let me make a few more remarks. Today we are here to have adequate information, to prevent citizens from getting the wrong information, to make sure that the channels of communication are absolutely the right ones. All the preventive measures taken - I am thinking of the suspension of flights and the health channels created - should reassure us that the situation, as far as our country is concerned, is under control. However, there are some issues that I do not think we can underestimate; I say this because it must be part of the more general reasoning. See that not only with climate change but also with the destruction of ecosystems (Senator Binetti knows perfectly well) there is a greater probability - unfortunately this is the result of what we have created - of much greater diffusion. There is not only globalisation, but also this aspect relating to the issues of the ecosystem that we have created, in particular the fact that, as happened in those markets where there is the sale of live animals, the barriers of species have been overcome, creating promiscuity, with all that this entails. In our country too, therefore, we must also pay attention to the illegal trade, remembering that that of protected animal species is always very undervalued and to be punished only by a fine. I say this in order to stress how complex and complex a world is where issues that were previously underestimated today must be at the centre of our attention. I conclude by pointing out that I think we are doing quite well. The most important thing is to keep the information channel to the citizens and certainly keep the alert, but with a serious system of adequate information, without alarms on which someone can easily speculate. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and PD]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u49	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I address the Minister with great seriousness to his call for national unity. It could not be otherwise, because the Brothers of Italy party, which I have the honour and pleasure of representing, the party of the Italian right, certainly cannot answer in any other way when we are faced with a public health problem, which goes beyond our limited and partisan visions, and the interests of politics, but which concerns our fellow citizens, therefore all of us. I therefore welcome your request, doing so with the seriousness that will have to characterize each of us in the world of politics, but also outside it, so that we can really respond to this emergency with maximum effectiveness and efficiency. Mr Minister, in view of this total availability, however, we ask the Government and the majority for maximum transparency and strictness at national level, because first of all we must be transparent and strict at home, but also and above all at international level. We remember when in 2003, at the time of SARS, the Chinese communist regime certainly did not shine for transparency and the information arrived very late, obviously creating more difficulties to deal with the emergency health. We hope that our country will also pay attention to information coming from the Chinese State. I am confident that the information you have given us can respond to the truth and I hope that it is not the information that unfortunately comes from sources that seem to be reliable, that talk about more worrying situations. I happened to listen to an important head of the magazine at Tgcom24 yesterday, and it expressed some concerns, even in part. By objectivating them. I happened to read about "Il Sole 24 Ore" today of the statements of the President of Confindustria Lombardy, who we know is the owner of an important company in China, who said that the situation is much more serious than what has appeared to date. Faced with this data, we must then monitor and demand absolute clarity from the institutions of the Chinese Government. We must demand this for the interest of our country, of Europe, for the interest of public health, but also - as I will say later - for the economic interests that unfortunately also gravitate today on these situations. So, Mr Minister, we are asking that the Government be able to implement the measures most appropriate to the precautionary and control of anyone, Chinese or not, who has moved in these territories and can monitor people closely because we cannot really afford any weakness in these aspects. I also hope, especially after reading in some important national newspapers references to racism and this sort of thing from people who think, that no one really wants to speculate on these issues at the moment and that checks will therefore be carried out because they serve the interests of the citizens. Nobody wants to limit anyone, no one wants to limit people who are of other religions, of other states: we are moved only by the interest of protecting public health. This must be a mantra for all of us and above all for those who govern us at this moment. I will end by focusing on the economic aspects; today the economy is global, the economic repercussions are moving from one continent to another and we already know that the most authoritative sources foresee for China significant problems and reductions of GDP of more than one point. This could, of course, affect our country and the whole European system. I would therefore like your colleagues, Mr Gualtieri and Mr Patuanelli, to follow this issue with the same seriousness as you are showing us today because I repeat that there is a major public health problem, which is obviously a major one, but there is also a major economic problem for our businesses and our economy. I await from the entire Government that clarity, strength and decision-making that we have not unfortunately seen in these months, but that at least at this juncture and on these issues Brothers of Italy expects. That is why we reiterate to you that we are correct in dealing with this national and international emergency together with you. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u51	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u52	Mr President, the Democratic Party thanks Minister Hope for coming today to explain to us in a very short time - he had already done so in the House in the Social Affairs Committee last Monday - the picture of the Coronavirus problem that is attacking us. The media are exaggerating a lot on the subject, but of course public opinion is worrying: the infected are increasing and the victims - we heard the latest news this morning - and the virus has also arrived in the West. Of course, the WHO is taking time and today - as you said - will consider whether to decree an emergency state after assessing whether or not the virus is containing it. I agree with you, however, that we must not create alarmism; instead, we must deal with the problem with the utmost seriousness and competence. Your Ministry, thanks to the extraordinary expertise within it and also to the network of international relations that you are holding (he said this earlier when he even mentioned the European Commissioner for Health), is carrying out an excellent management of the flows of information and is working very well, in our opinion, in this direction. We have heard this before, and, even before other nations intervened, preventive measures have been put in place for the benefit of the community, especially by anticipating the guidelines and putting immediately at airports where the scanners arrived to detect the temperature. All this is then sent to the National Institute for Infectious Diseases Lazarus Spallanzani in Rome, which is considered an important scientific reference point. We also appreciate the establishment of this task force coronavirus, composed of representatives of the Ministry, the Carabinieri, the Higher Institute of Health, the National Agency for Regional Health Services (Agenas), the Italian Agency of Drug, the National Institute of Infectious Diseases and the Order of Doctors, involving the whole "compartment of urgency," as it is defined, with respect to an important topic for our country that you manage to follow in real time (I was at the Ministry a few days ago and the task force met and updated continuously). It is also good to have strengthened operational staff by providing a public telephone number. Where should you go to find the information but the Ministry? It is the only valid reference point. This also serves to avoid spreading fake news, which unfortunately are running on the web. It is important to have the opportunity to identify certain sources; you have done well, therefore, to make available this telephone number: it is easy to create alarmism and, instead, when you have a correct answer people feel more guaranteed. In situations of this kind, it is necessary to team up and work in synergy, as he rightly said and also with the Regions. The fact that all Health Councillors are following her shows that there really is a need for compactness for the health of citizens. This is true at all levels, including the political level, which implies synergy between the Government and Parliament. I am sure that we will all be prepared to work together with the institutions that are represented in a unique way, each of us making our own contribution where it is necessary. It would be really helpful to avoid polemics. The health of citizens is a very serious issue and, Minister, your report shows this because it has followed and is following all the steps in detail. The fact that you don't do Facebook directly doesn't mean you're not working; indeed, you're working very well, in my opinion. To solve the problems, alarmism must be avoided because it unfortunately also creates problems with other citizens such as the exclusion of the Chinese community that has been living on our territory for years. Above all, I am concerned - and this is very important - about the intolerances that exist towards children: we must protect them. I would therefore urge you to pay attention to this, Minister. When there are these problems, we need, I repeat, correct information, otherwise irrationality will take over. Therefore, without fomenting fear, we are lucky to have a national health system that, even with all its problems, still manages to endure such a situation. It is therefore right to be united at this time and to ensure information. We therefore thank you if I keep you up to date on a situation that is becoming increasingly difficult. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Di Marzio. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u53	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u54	Thank you, Mr President. *** Minister, thank you for the report, but we cannot hide our concern about the current pandemic situation, not only in the Wuhan region, but also in the Asian continent. It certainly does not reassure us that all air and rail connections have been suspended from Wuhan and, subsequently, from other important cities in the province of Hubei, as you said, nor the fact that the operation of public transport has been interrupted, the highways of access have been closed and the meeting places have been closed, such as markets, cinemas, internet cafes, cultural sites, and the demonstrations for the celebrations of the Chinese New Year have been suspended. They do not reassure us of the numbers communicated by the Chinese Government, which some sources consider undervalued and which should be multiplied at least eight times. It also does not reassure us that there is no news of a possible vaccine. What emerges in a clear and inescapable way is that there is certainly a vulnus in the WHO, which first states that there is a moderate alarm [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] and then, instead, surely with an unjustifiable delay of at least a week, he declares that the epidemic, unlike as he had written in as many as five previous reports, is elevated. The fact that the Italian Government is in line with what the WHO has indicated - I repeat - very little reassures us. Meanwhile the British Airways and Lufthansa airlines have suspended all flights to China, Toyota has suspended production, Starbucks and Ikea have closed several points of sale, the World Ski Cup races have been cancelled; while in Italy 34 flights on Fiumicino and 25 on Malpensa are scheduled weekly (but we have the medical channels and then will be evaluated, from time to time, quarantine). What does Europe do in the face of a declared high epidemic? At the moment, as you have confirmed, the Ministers speak, exchange information. I ask myself and ask you whether this is not the case - certainly not for alarmism, but for moving on the principle of maximum precaution, since it is public health - perhaps to suspend all flights at European level with the Asian continent, at least for a short period. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There is not only Wuhan presenting the epidemic, because the outbreaks are all over China and not only. It is a virus that in the first ten to fifteen days is asymptomatic; therefore it is useless in these cases the temperature detectors through which passengers are scanned. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] People move, travel, depart from several Chinese airports and not only from Wuhan, stop in Europe and move. This is the powerful machine of tourism, which carries with it multiple interests. What we ask of you as a League is to put the health of our citizens first and move in the spirit of the principle of maximum precaution. Therefore, if this Government considers that it does not suspend flights, we ask it to apply at least quarantine to all those who come, both by direct flights and by ports of call, from China and the Asian continent. It is not enough to assume the information on which routes, with which destinations and on which itineraries passengers from the Asian continent will travel, because it becomes particularly difficult and difficult to trace, in the event of illness, contacts, visits, places visited. Then there are the students who went to China for Chinese New Year and who will return. In this case too, it is essential that they be placed for the first period in quarantine, not to alarm, but to protect and protect the same and the school population. He said that checks are carried out on passengers arriving through ports; we ask you to extend these checks to all ships arriving in Italian ports and also to those carrying goods. Finally, information must be unique, clear, transparent and correct. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is not to avoid creating alarmisms, but to explain to citizens, who however acquire information through websites, what measures to take, what dangers arise from this virus and what behaviors prevent its infection. It is therefore not enough to circulate to the regions and the information - for which we thank you - to the Health Commissions and Parliament, but it is necessary to work, through commercials, brochures and news. From this point of view, Minister, this Government is certainly behind schedule. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u55	Senator Siclari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u56	Mr President, Minister, on 24 January, after the deafening silence of you and the entire Government on the very serious pandemic of the Chinese coronavirus, I was concerned, on behalf of Forza Italia, to invite you publicly, in a press release, to report in this prestigious Chamber on what was and is happening in China and the world and what could happen in Italy. We have proposed to activate the task force as soon as possible and the crisis unit, and today we appreciate that you are in this House, four days after our statement, and that you have done what we advised you at the time. The advance that Forza Italia wants to make team. We are talking about public health, we are talking about protecting the health and life of our citizens, especially the weakest. We have listened very carefully to your report, which we share, but it is not enough; it is not enough because it does not report concrete and effective measures to prevent immediately the contagion of what could be a very serious pandemic, perhaps the most serious of the last hundred years, and to recover precious time, especially before it spreads in Italy, as it has happened in two months in China in just two months (from November to today). Minister, we have also listened to the World Health Organisation's statements, which acknowledged that the global risk arising from the Chinese coronavirus is high both for its aggressiveness and its dangerousness and, above all, for the ease with which it is transmitted among people. It didn't happen before with other coronaviruses; it is transmitted exactly as a flu virus and can lead - as you yourself said - to a real international health emergency. The Director of the Department of Infectious Diseases of the Higher Institute of Health says that the number of cases is greatly underestimated and that there are many more and probably even one zero, if not two zeros, should be added to this number for China. Michael Ryan's statements, the Executive Director of the World Health Organisation's Emergency Programme, as soon as he returned from a mission to China, held a press conference in Geneva, the WHO headquarters, and stated that it provides for worrying developments and then brought the emergency committee together because of the increase in cases that have occurred, not only in China exponentially, but also outside. Minister, I value you personally and also as a politician (I know you are doing your utmost, along with the Higher Institute of Health and with all your medical colleagues and health workers), but this coronavirus pandemic cannot and must not be addressed only by your Dicastery, because it is something bigger. Our thoughts also go to those Italians who are still in China: they are in Hubei and Wuhan and do not know how to return, they have no news from the Farnesina. That is why I ask you to speak to the Farnesina and to speak to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, because they cannot get answers (I have their messages on my mobile phone). This virus is transmitted as a flu virus, which means in three months we will have peak peaks, by April or perhaps May. His report shows that we have not given any certainty, we do not know the number of sick people and we are not sure how many people have been cured to date. We do not know where the citizens who left Wuhan and arrived in Italy in the last month: 2,400 people. Well, you said that in Italy we have the highest controls and you called for an international meeting of all the EU Health Ministers to figure out how to deal with the situation. Minister, I would advise you to go to Europe and give us our indications: we have the best scientists in the world, the best research in the world, and we must not wait for the other Ministers of other European countries to tell us how to intervene. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We, precisely because we want to make a contribution, feel that we are making four very important suggestions: firstly, Minister, do so because it has not yet done so: immediately contact the Melbourne researchers who have already cultivated a virus identical to the Chinese coronavirus and have publicly given their willingness to share this work with anyone who wants to help find solutions and get as soon as possible to the realization of vaccines that will certainly help us prevent the transmission of the disease and also innovative medicines that will serve to cure those infected with the virus. The biological availability is precious: the material existence of the virus, beyond the RNA sequence that was published by China, has allowed us this result, because it would take almost a year to get to the production of a virus. We therefore use this precious time: we already talk to the researchers in Melbourne; Minister, act immediately on the Higher Institute of Health. Secondly, Minister, I invite you to give a message to also contain the transmission of the virus in the immediate future, which has not happened today: contact the Chinese Embassy and have the ambassador contact all the Chinese who have arrived in Italy in the last month: we do clinical tests to see if there are healthy carriers of this virus, because we do not know. Thirdly, we advise everyone to wear masks at airports, trains, shopping malls and crowded spots; we must not be ashamed, we should not wait to say so in a week, when it is already late. We already have the first case in Lecce, maybe we have another case as the ANSA said this morning. Finally, extend the prevention health corridor that is active at the airport: the temperature is not enough, you know very well too, it is not enough because the incubation is two weeks. Also do clinical tests to those who want to come to Italy, otherwise there is no solution to eliminate the possibility of transmission and prevent infection other than that of closing airports and direct flights from China to Italy. Minister, we give you this advice. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u57	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u58	Mr President, Minister, thank you for the timely and comprehensive information you have presented here today. Thank you for clarifying the risks and the measures implemented by the Ministry. As a doctor I say that we are experiencing a moment of great concern for this new coronavirus that has spread to China. The concern, however, is accompanied by the certainty that the institutions protect the citizens of this country and it is important to emphasize, as you have already done, that this Government has mobilized, from the first moment, through the Ministry of Health that activated immediately, and not after the letter of Senator Siclari, a task force active 24 hours a day to monitor all developments and to plan the necessary surveillance and prevention interventions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] It is of these hours the news of an intervention aboard of a ship from cruise docked to Civitavecchia for the presence of two passengers with suspicious symptoms. In addition to the Ministry of Health, the Farnesina was immediately activated to safeguard the safety of our citizens resident in Wuhan who will soon be repatriated. The Government is therefore working in an impeccable way, contrary to what the superficial and irresponsible political exploitation of some opposition exponent wants to imply. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator Gasparri]] In fact, the alarmisms and behaviors that trigger collective psychosis can only cause serious damage to the country and its citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators De Vecchis and Gasparri]] As a doctor and researcher, I know that putting in place measures to control biological risk and prevent infections is not the subject of propaganda, but requires knowledge of the data, in-depth study, competence and ability to plan the actions to be implemented and collaboration between all political forces is necessary. This infection is certainly an exceptional event, but just as exceptional are the measures that are being implemented, if we think that in China at the moment there is a quarantine for as many as 50 million people, which has no precedent in history. We agree with you, Minister, that as a Government you must focus on some points in particular, for the good of the country and the protection of the inviolable right to the health of the individual: communicate only certain news and confirmed cases, inform on the cautions to adopt, reiterate that the travels to China are not recommended, suggest to go to hospital if the return from those places you feel suspicious symptoms, suspend, as has been done, all direct air connections coming from Wuhan, activate the sanitary corridors in the airports, as done by Italy first in Europe. It is clear that the situation is constantly monitored by the Ministry, which is in continuous contact with the World Health Organization and the European centre for disease prevention and control and publishes every new update on its portal in good time. In Italy, moreover, we know that there is already a network of surveillance of severe acute respiratory infections and acute respiratory distress syndromes, which therefore regularly participates in the monitoring of events of this type. Unfortunately, however, there are still uncertain data from China that cause fears of a very high mortality rate, between 2% and 3%, which we hope is not confirmed by the actual data and should perhaps be diluted by a much higher number of contagions, due to an initial underestimation of the disease by the Chinese authorities. We therefore call on you, Minister, to urge Europe and the World Health Organisation to demand certain numbers from the Chinese authorities regarding cases of infection and death, and to provide precise information on the possible sources of virus origin and infection, because early diagnosis is very important to prevent the spread of infection. In conclusion, I want to say thanks to the many health workers who are fighting this "war" in China. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] To doctors, nurses, some of them among the first victims of this infection precisely because they are unknowingly exposed to a very high risk of infection. Thanks also to you, Minister, our Deputy Minister and all the technicians who are accompanying you to monitor in real time the evolution and spread of this disease and prepare our country to face a possible health emergency. We are sure that our doctors, my colleagues, our nurses and staff all have excellent preparation and are ready for any event. We guarantee you that we feel protected by our National Health System, by you Minister, by your Ministry and by an attentive and active Government. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Today from this Senate Chamber we want to join in the pain of those who have lost their loved ones and the voices of the citizens of Wuhan, who from the skyscrapers are exhorting one another to resist. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u59	I declare closed the debate on the urgent information of the Minister of Health, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u60	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-01-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-186.ana.u61	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 5 February, at 10 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 13.14 a.m.
