ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u3	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time), under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister for Economic Development will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Urso has the right to explain the question 3-02084 on the participation of two foreign investors in the purchase of Autostrade for Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u4	Mr President, as my colleagues know, the question at my first signature was obviously filed before yesterday's arrest of the former CEO of Autostrade for Italy and other managers, for events that do not have directly to do with the tragedy of the Morandi bridge, which wounded the city of Genoa and hit the whole nation, but which always concern the issue of the maintenance of the Italian motorways. We're talking about arrests by the judiciary after a long investigation. This of course cannot but interfere with the question and indeed makes it even more topical, in the light of the latest events which, however, are disturbing and on which we have asked the Government for specific information in this House. In the first place, the negotiation that was born with a impasse on the price that the State (deposit and loan fund) must pay in order to resume the control of the Italian highway system; an exorbitant price also for the repeated announcements made even by exponents of the Government, that have provoked in the past months various stock exchange phenomena and that some duno has even defined operations of update. Secondly, the action of the Government itself, which a few hours ago, before the arrests, nevertheless extended the golden power, that is, the shield that the Government can place in front of hostile climbs that come from abroad, precisely on the highway sector; a coincidence that denotes and highlights how important the issue is. Thirdly, there is the fact that there are two foreign funds which, in the case of agreements, would in fact take the majority of the shares of the motorway company; one of them is famous in the world for speculations that it does to the detriment of users and exclusive remuneration of shareholders, exactly like Atlantia. Among other things - and I conclude - I would like to know if the Government knows what can be the consequences of a fact: Atlantia herself recently bought, a few days ago, a tunnel in Virginia, happens from the Australian fund that should buy the shares in Italy, for a billion euros. I therefore ask the Government what are the times of the operation in order to allow Italian citizens to resume the possession of the highway system of the Country, so that it really responds to the national interests of the users, and what are the investments necessary to guarantee the absolute maintenance, to repair to a wound that not only concerns the city of Genoa, but the whole Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u5	The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr De Micheli, has the floor to answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u6	Mr President, after the start of the withdrawal procedure in September 2018, a settlement table opened in July 2019 following an explicit request from Aspi company (Autostrade per l'Italia), which intended to make some proposals, and above all following the report of the committee set up by the previous Government, which had considered the withdrawal procedure subject to numerous problems for legal reasons. As you know, this report is published on the website of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Following the inauguration of the current Government, the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Economic Affairs continued in depth on the proposals that Aspi company and later Atlantia also made to the Government to overcome, and possibly transfer, the request for revocation. On 14 July the Council of Ministers examined these proposals and started a formal process of defining the transaction, on substantive and non-formal assumptions of public interest, which are linked exactly to the issue of maintenance (on which I will then return to the end, Senator Urso), the amount and the amount of investment needed for the motorway network and related activities, as well as based on the need to guarantee employment levels, especially at such a difficult time for our country. Following this, of course, the transactive process with the Ministry of Infrastructure, the Presidency of the Council and the MEF has opened on the one hand with regard to the construction of the economic and financial plan (the so-called PEF), which will have to have the final approval of various entities of the institutions (as required by law) and which provides for a prior evaluation of the authority. In parallel with this, the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti started a formal negotiation with Atlantia for the acquisition of the majority of Aspi. On the front of the negotiation between Cassa Depositi e Prestiti e Aspi, my Ministry has no competence, but I can represent you that this negotiation moves on prices and market values, in prospective terms, and does not cross other decisions that this Government will have to take shortly. As far as the maintenance issue and the investigation of yesterday's case are concerned, I do not want to escape this question, Senator Urso. The judicial investigation, of course, takes its course and will ascertain the responsibilities both on the issue of the Morandi bridge and on the other lines, such as that which emerged yesterday. Meanwhile, I represent to you that upon my arrival, edited of the state of maintenance by my technical structures, I have radically modified the relationship with the dealers. Firstly, direct controls have been introduced by the Directorate-General for Concessions. Second, no autonomous controls by dealers, but imposed, from 1 January 2020, controls carried out by third parties. Thirdly, equal guidelines for all dealers and operators on the safety of bridges and viaducts established by the Higher Council of Public Works in January 2020. Fourth: quadrupling fines for all minor defaults on the maintenance front. All this, Senator Urso, has brought in this year hundreds of millions of yards from all the dealers; for me, very urgent yards that have created inconveniences and rivers of controversy. In the light of the facts, I confirm the goodness of that choice. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u7	I give the floor to Senator Urso to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u8	Mr President, I can only judge the response, unfortunately, also in the eyes of the Italians and not only of the families of the victims or of the city of Genoa, inadequate and I would say also evasive on the times and the modalities that must allow our country to regain control of what, as is evident to all also from the judicial investigation in progress, has escaped all control. The city of Genoa was wounded, but not folded. It's been over two years. She herself spoke of September 2018: we are now in November 2020: over two years have passed. The government hasn't changed. The government's leadership is always the Prime Minister Conte, who has changed his opinion several times this period of over two years, and the Movimento 5 Stars, which is the relative majority party then as it is today. That is why we find ourselves absolutely dissatisfied with the answer, which clarifies nothing, let alone the hypothesis that a foreign fund that would take control of society is involved, and that in its behavior has been judged, by the British who have suffered it, like a vampire fund, a vampire kangaroo that sucks the blood of users, money and resources without investing. We risk falling from the frying pan to the fire. I am surprised that, in the majority of those who first raised the issue today remain silent. For this reason, our response, which is the response of the Italian nation to a failing Government, is certainly: unfortunately you have lost over two years and you do not tell us when this affair will close. Because this is now an extraordinary financial operation to the detriment of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u9	Senator Durnwalder has the right to explain the question 3-02081 on the extension of the thermal account incentives to small farms for three minutes. I invite all senators to respect the times.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u10	Mr President, Mr. Minister, the Decree of the Ministry of Economic Development of 28 December 2012 encourages interventions for the increase of energy efficiency and the production of thermal energy from renewable sources for small plants, the so-called thermal account, whose discipline was updated by interministerial decree of 16 February 2016. The methods of access to the thermal account, as defined in the interministerial decree cited, are very strict and limited to the only professional agricultural entrepreneur, effectively excluding many small farms, in particular those most present in the inland and mountain areas. The qualification of a professional agricultural entrepreneur close to the person who, in possession of professional knowledge and skills, devotes to the agricultural activity of a business, directly or as a member, at least 50% of his overall income from work (or 25% for holdings located in less-favoured areas) and that in order to obtain this qualification, issued by the competent administration (Autonomous Region or Province), it is necessary to be enrolled in the agricultural management of the INPS. In the mountainous areas, however, many farmers cannot qualify as a professional farmer because, due to low agricultural income, they are forced to work outside their farm. However, for farms in the territories of the inland and mountain areas, even of small size, the interest towards the installation of innovative biomass heating systems is very high given the cost savings that result, and on the other hand to extend the audience of beneficiaries of the incentives provided by the thermal account also to the agricultural companies whose holder carries out the activities referred to in Article 2135 of the Civil Code would also be in perfect harmony with that green policy so much desired and supported European level and shared by our Government. It is therefore asked whether the Minister in address shares the opportunity for such an extension, which also means increasing the percentage of use of renewable energy sources, with positive repercussions on environmental sustainability and, if so, whether he does not intend to intervene directly in this regard by making the necessary amendments to the text of the interministerial decree of 16 February 2016. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u11	Mr President, I thank the interrogating senators. The question is very simple: the thermal account allows access to agricultural holdings defined, as the Senator rightly said, only to small-scale interventions in the production of thermal energy from renewable sources. I would point out, however, that this provision is based on the European rule that only farms which can prove viability can benefit from Community subsidies. So the legislator, and in this case the Ministry that made a second level rule, referred to Article 2135 of the Civil Code precisely because there is proof of profitability. In fact, Legislative Decree No. 99 of 2004 provided that access was linked to being in possession of adequate professional knowledge and skills, to dedicating at least 50% of their total working time to agricultural activity and, above all, to the fact that revenues from such activity were at least 50% of their income. I would remind you that in mountain areas this percentage is reduced to 25%, thus giving farmers a wider chance to be considered as professional farmers. Of course, I agree with the need to promote all forms of energy efficiency and the use of energy from renewable sources, and therefore, in my opinion, an assessment must also be made of the extension to other categories, especially in the field of agriculture where it is clear that the ecological footprint is very broad. I believe, however, that this debate must also be done on the basis of a cost-benefit analysis because the thermal account, in fact, is made up of money that is taken from the bills, therefore, every increase in availability of the thermal account and every extension of the audience corresponds to a spill over on the bill. A cost-benefit analysis of all possibilities for extending access to the thermal account should be carefully considered, and this is certainly one of the issues that can be considered more carefully.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u12	I give the floor to Senator Durnwalder to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u13	Mr President, I am pleased to note the Minister's approach, that is to say that we are in favour of a possible debate on this point and I trust that concrete measures can also be taken in the future for domestic and mountain agriculture, which is one of the most important sectors of our territory and which I therefore believe deserves all support.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u14	Senator Carbone has the right to explain the question 3-02088 on measures to deal with the crisis at the Whirlpool plant in Naples, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u15	Illustrated President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that on 31 October the Whirlpool plant in Naples closed its doors and ceased its activities. It was closed, Minister, by the multinational that had to guarantee its livelihood, leaving hundreds of workers at home. The 355 employees of the Whirlpool plant in Naples will have guaranteed their salary until 31 December, after which their destiny, the fate of their families, the fate of their children will be uncertain. In recent days, together with their families, unions and many Neapolitans, they have also manifested in a historical square in Naples - Piazza Dante - to give voice to their difficulties and to highlight the dramatic repercussions that will hit not only the workers of the company but all the social fabric of the South, South. The closure of the Whirlpool plant in Naples is the culmination of the dramatic phase of productive impoverishment that has been investing our country for years and that risks to aggravate the social and economic picture of the Mezzogiorno, of our South. The intense intercourse between the Ministry and the multinational, unfortunately, did not give the results due and we would like to know from you, Minister, if you do not feel it necessary to adopt as soon as possible appropriate measures to ensure adequate economic support to the workers of the Whirlpool plant in Naples, as well as if you do not think it appropriate to set up a discussion table at the Ministry of Labour in order to find a solution that can relaunch the plant. I believe, Minister, that the Government has a duty to put in place all the necessary and possible efforts to prevent such a scenario, especially at a dramatic time such as the one we are living in.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u16	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u17	Mr President, not only do I think it is necessary but we have done so: in fact, the permanent table at the Ministry of Economic Development with the presence of the Ministry of Labour was opened as early as 2019, when the company announced that by October of that year it would close the plant and then join our request to have more time also to analyze the real reasons for which it was abandoning it. These reasons, objectively, we have understood them to a certain extent because, in reality, the investments made on that plant have been many, over the years, by Whirlpool. The lines are avant-garde, they are automated production lines that have a great production capacity. Obviously the product was wrong, but to solve such a problem it does not close, you change product. In this regard, the Government had expressed great willingness to accompany the plant in the transition phase and there was the direct concern of the President of the Council, whom I thank, also because on October 30 we spoke directly with Mark Bitzer who is the CEO of the multinational Whirlpool America. However, this did not help to convince Whirpool to return to its own steps. However, we have made available to the plant a decontribution of 30%, provided for by the so-called Provenzano norm, which obviously applies throughout the territory of the South, and 20 million euros were made available by the Campania Region. I also remember that there is the possibility of a development contract, with incentives to support plants, machinery and licenses for a minimum of 20 million euros but with the possibility to conclude development contracts even from 150 million euros. We have given willingness to use these resources. Then there are investments in research and development that are mixed between lost funds and loans and that are generally granted to finance new products and processes, so exactly for this purpose. There are also tax benefits in the form of tax credit that can be applicable to site investments. There is the new MISE fund on safeguarding employment levels, against which we can use 10 million euros between equity and lost funds as well as the Sace loans that could have accompanied this path. It is therefore an objectively unprecedented package that has been made available to Whirlpool to stay. What I am saying today is that, since wages are guaranteed until 31 December, we must not find economic support for the workers who remain out of work: we must find - and we are doing this - a serious entrepreneur who wants to invest in that factory, and we will make all these tools available to him. I think the road is there and the interlocutions we have at the moment are solid and serious. We have done everything we can to make Whirlpool stay in Naples; today we must do everything we can - and I am sure we will - to ensure that those people do not lose their jobs, but that they remain operational in that plant, even if with another group or with another product. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u18	I give the floor to Senator Carbone to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u19	Minister, I know your work and thank you and the President of the Council, so I take note of your words. I know that you are a person who, despite the many difficulties, keeps his commitments, so I remain hopeful. Allow me, however, to say that I will be satisfied and happy only when I and especially the workers of Whirlpool and the Neapolitans see the company reopening. Neapolitans don't need subsidies, they need work. I want to remind my colleagues that the company Whirlpool, a week before it was closed, has still baked technological products that envy the world. Minister, please, let us not leave the workers of Whirlpool, their children, their families, in the hands of the labor of crime. The State is there, the State is us, the State must not be careless, because when the State is absent, when it is distracted, here is the anti-State barren.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u20	Senator Ruotolo has the right to explain the question 3-02076 on the disposal of the Whirlpool plant in Naples, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u21	Mr President, once again we are talking about Whirlpool, after Mr Carbone and especially after that, Minister, which I already questioned on 18 June, in the light of the threat that the American multinational producing washing machines is threatening. Well, we realized that, from 1 November, the workers of Whirlpool (355) no longer produce and have their salary until 31 December. I repeat, we are talking about 355 workers. You have already explained, Minister, that there had been agreements with the Government two years ago. I would like to link with what you have just said by reminding everyone of the importance of work in Naples: a city that risks exploding because of the social tensions of this second wave of Covid that is putting to the test the social estate and the democratic holding, because in the demonstrations - legitimate - of the categories affected by the DCCM blow the winds of the exversions of the criminal forces. This working class is therefore a bulwark of defence for democracy in our city, in our reality. Attention, however, because the unions, the workers' representatives do not explain Whirlpool's decision because there are market sprays, indeed real assets; Whirlpool itself had invested and there are competitors Candy and Electrolux. I'm going to the substance then, Minister. You said that you are working on an alternative project in the search for a serious entrepreneur, but are we sure that it is not possible to reopen a negotiation with Whirlpool before proceeding to this hypothesis? December 31 is approaching and therefore the disengagement is incomprehensible. We also know - he told me last time - that we do not have the legislative tools to be able to stop this logic of "take the money and run away." Just today we will deposit here in the Senate a bill to grasp this element, but also without waiting for a legislative change, the request that departs from Naples I believe is to reopen a negotiation with the American company Whirlpool. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u22	Mr President, of course, the terms of reply from the previous question also apply to many of the elements of Senator Ruotolo's question, which I thank for raising again the issue that is central, also because guaranteeing work in such a difficult area of the country means ensuring that those people are away from crime and that they do not enter very dangerous vicious circles. Beyond the number of people involved, therefore, the theme is of great sensitivity and for this reason it has so strongly attracted the attention of the Government and the parliamentary assemblies. For once, I would like to urge Parliament to have a serious debate on a reform that leads to giving instruments to our country of protection compared to the large multinational companies that decide to relocate or move production elsewhere. [[Applause]] It is clear that this issue cannot be the subject of an urgent decision but of a major parliamentary debate. Very often the French law Florange is cited, but in reality this has had a very limited impact: it concerns the closures of companies with more than a thousand workers or a thousand employees and the effort that is asked of the entrepreneur is to try for six months to find an alternative. If you do not find it, however, after the six months of commitment nothing happens. In fact, the penalty of 2% of turnover is only if you refuse to try to find an alternative solution to relocation. I believe that that is also a very weak rule and that a little deeper reasoning must be made in our country. I believe that the time we have spent trying to give instruments of conviction and even materials to Whirlpool to stay is now over. Today we have to be sure we find an alternative solution and I am putting all the strength I have to find it and I can assure you that that staff will not be one day without a salary. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u23	I give the floor to Senator Rotolo to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u24	Minister, thank you because you have been brave and I very much appreciate your reply. However, I still ask you, today that we are on 12 November, to try again to meet Whirlpool with the trade union organizations to verify the possibility and the conditions for it to stay in Naples. As for the alternative project, it is clear that Naples does not need assistance but needs this. After that, it is time for the Italian Government to open this dossier in Europe, because we know then that most of these displacements of these multinationals end up in Eastern Europe; so there is a subject of taxation, there is a topic of salary and why it must agree to remain in Italy, that is the point.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u25	Senator Boldrini has the power to explain the question 3-02089 on the reform process of the chambers of commerce, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u26	Mr President, as the Minister knows, the legislation on chambers of commerce has been reformed since Legislative Decree No 219 of 2016, which introduced a series of novelties with particular regard to the functions of chambers of commerce up to their overall governance. In particular, Article 3 of the same decree provided for the reduction by merging the number of the same chambers of commerce, through a ministerial decree that was to be implemented. The ministerial decree had to provide, in fact, that the chambers of commerce from 105 would reach 60. Since then a process that has subsequently extended has unfortunately also led to numerous appeals, due to the heavy negative repercussions on the companies of the various combinations that have been made, even between distant territories and not related to production districts. Since then more time has passed and Decree-Law No 104 of 2020 - the last we see appearing - has intended to give a greater impetus to the process of amalgamation, providing a deadline for the establishment of the organs of those chambers of commerce that had for the time being merged, but also producing serious effects, because it policed those chambers of commerce that could not complete the process. Among other things, some Commissioners from those chambers of commerce, in particular Emilia-Romagna, have still not been appointed today, with all the consequences that may fall on the same industries that, through the Chamber of Commerce, receive support. Therefore, as parliamentarians, I believe, of all political parties we have tabled a series of amendments to the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 104, translated (and this I was very pleased) on an agenda accepted by the Government, which provided that, within thirty days of the conversion into law of Decree-Law, the Ministry of Economic Development would activate a table with representatives of the State-Regions Conference, local authorities, Unioncamere and associations of economic operators, aimed at verifying, on the basis of objective criteria, how to promote a more effective structure. I remember in fact that the scenario unfortunately has changed, there is the Covid-19, so we need even more support for our companies. Therefore, Minister, we are here to ask what acts you have already produced in order to activate this table and how the process is proceeding so that we can improve our chambers of commerce. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u27	Mr President, I thank the interrogating senators. The history of the reform has already been well illustrated by Senator Boldrini. I would remind you that our goal is to have effective and efficient chambers of commerce, which provide services to businesses. Of course, hanging on to an unfinished reform for four years is not the best way to achieve it, and that is why I have stressed the need to carry it out on every occasion, regardless of the type of reform. I would remind you that this is a reform which I partly agree with, but which I would have done otherwise. However, since this was the approach, it was right to give certainty to the chambers of commerce, because the aim is to give services to the company. As we perceive some critical issues also at a territorial level, we have understood, in the decree simplifications, with Article 61, to give equal dignity to the headquarters of the chambers of commerce. This, in fact, is not an indifferent aspect. I therefore believe that the spirit of Parliament and certainly that Government is precisely to give the Chambers of Commerce the opportunity to represent the intermediate body between the actions of Government and the enterprises, which gives services to the world of enterprises, in particular at a time of such great difficulty. With regard to the problem of the Commissioners, I have already, after receiving from some regions to which I have proposed the Commissioners a yes, appointed the Commissioners for the bodies that have expired. These are the chambers of commerce of Viterbo, Trapani, Cremona, Mantova, Novara, Verbano-Cusio-Ossola. Other proposals have been sent to the Regions for approval and will arrive the answers in the next few days. Not only that; precisely to discuss in a constructive way all aspects of the reform, but above all how to give better services to companies, the table requested by a agenda proposed by the Parliamentary Assemblies was convened for the day of Monday 16 November - then next Monday - in the afternoon, with Unioncamere, Cooperatives, Confcommercio, Confindustria, Confesercenti, ANCI, Conference State-Regions, Confartigianato, Coldiretti, Confagricoltura, Casartigiani and Confapi, that is all the associations of category that adhere to the chamber authorities.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u28	Senator Ferrari has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u29	Mr President, I thank the Minister. The Democratic Party, as you well know, considers the role of chambers of commerce to be fundamental for the function of proximity and help they are giving to companies in the territories of Italy, in these difficult months of social and economic crisis caused, as we know, by the Covid-19. The Democratic Party believes at the same time that it is strategic the function that the chambers of commerce can play in the coming months to put in place in the territories themselves those many investments that, as a government, as a majority, as a country, we are organizing and promoting also thanks to the aid that Europe in anticipation will give us, such as the recovery fund plan. In the light of these premises, on behalf of the Democratic Party, I am pleased with your initiative, which gives merit and continuity to the agenda that we have approved. It is therefore very good for the table to open; we are convinced that it is not only necessary to quickly complete a reform with a bureaucratic style, but that it must do so with the fundamental logic of completing a reform, especially by going to see what are the exceptions to be corrected and what combinations must be seen in the light of the following principle: we want the heritage of history, tradition and good governance of the fundamental bodies of our territories such as the chambers of commerce to be valued. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u30	Senator Pagano has the right to explain the question 3-02086 on the multiple business crisis tables opened at the Ministry, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u31	Mr President, Minister, our question concerns the recovery of infections, which has led to an economic emergency in addition to the health emergency. The negative economic effects have mainly penalised the small, medium and large enterprises, mainly in the tourism, transport, trade, agriculture and craft industries. In our opinion, however, the choices of this Government, which we consider to be dirigist and statist, have been mainly directed towards the nationalization of companies in crisis and the selection of investors on the basis of the approval of Cassa depositi e loani. We believe that these choices of the Government, in addition to leading to a reduction of the spaces of competition, have certainly not helped to solve the problem of the national economy. Instead, we think that the large resources of the State could be more usefully used when directed to support innovative investments by small, medium and large companies and to the resolution of many of the corporate crises that this pandemic and therefore economic crisis has generated with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises. We need to regain the trust of our entrepreneurs and to do so we have to believe in them, we have to understand that obviously the backbone of our economy is precisely this network of small, medium and large entrepreneurs who have based their fortunes on their courage, their desire to invest, even aiming at all themselves. I would therefore like to ask you what is happening within your Mystery, how many crisis tables open at the Ministry of Economic Development today, what estimates the MISE has of the new corporate crises deriving from the emerging situation and whether, considering the numerous crisis tables still open, given the exacerbation of the health emergency and with it the progressive worsening of the economic situation of the Country, the Minister does not think that he realizes in a short time an effective plan of national recovery. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u32	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u33	Mr President, during several hearings in the House and the Senate, I have outlined the guidelines of the National Recovery Plan that we are preparing, of course, for the MISE part. I would therefore need a few hours to explain all the activities we are doing; in three minutes I will try to condense some elements and ideas to answer the right observations and also the many questions asked by the interrogators, whom I thank. I would remind you that we have tried to deal with the crisis even materially immediately in relation to closures, both in the first phase and in the second phase. For example, with regard to the non-refundable contributions, which are very often denigrated, I would remind you that we have already paid more than one billion of the last tranche of Decree-Law No 137 of 28 October of this year, so twelve days later we have paid over one billion new non-refundable contributions. The original decree, which established the lost fund for the first time, paid over 6,685 billion grants to enterprises; they are data of the Agency revenue and therefore irrefutable. We predicted an additional 2.2 billion with the so-called ristori decree and almost a billion with the ristori-a decree. This is only to deal with an emergency of immediate liquidity, especially of the small business. There are also, of course, other instruments that we have put in place that I do not list because the times are very short to respond to everything. As far as the perspective is concerned, I believe that the heart of our action must be precisely on strengthening, making structural in the multiannual period a fundamental measure such as the National Plan for Industry 4.0. We are working to extend both the ceilings and the rates, to make it of a certain duration and to give the company a guarantee of being able to invest with serenity. As far as crisis tables are concerned, there is no rule, as I have said several times in the Parliamentary Houses, that establishes when a crisis in the company becomes a crisis table. Very often there is the call of the Region that says it cannot manage a certain problem, proposing to take it to the Ministry of Economic Development (MISE) and open the tables. There are about 120 tables open at MISE, falling compared to last year. In most cases, tables have been open for several years, some have been open for seven years; 28 have been open for more than seven years, 70 have been open for more than three years. This is because they are monitoring tables. However, I would like to point out that many disputes have also been resolved and, sometimes, I would also like to see some titles and some questions on this. I think of Pernigotti, Corneliani, Mahle, Sider Alloys and Conad-Auchan. In particular the latter started with 6,200 redundancies and at the moment they are 795; certainly a very heavy number, but we managed, especially thanks to the action of the Undersecretary Todde, to reach from 6,200 to 795 and we believe that there are still margins. I think of the Ferriera di Servola, the iron and steel plant of my city, where we move from 140 to 338 employees in the cold area. I still think of the path made for Embraco, a matter finally resolved with the intervention of Acc. Many disputes have therefore been closed and more than 8,000 jobs have been safeguarded with these closures. We have also set up the Employment Protection Fund, with a budget of 300 million and equity operations of up to 10 million or lost funds for those who maintain their staff, a very important instrument that we have already used for the Corneliani crisis. However, I believe that in the future we should look not at how to spend, but at how to invest the resources that come from the recovery fund. In this regard, the work we are doing at the Ministry of Economic Development is intense work, which seeks to get deeper in relation to the fragility of our production systems. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Pagano to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u34	Mr. Minister, frankly, I am very kind to you, and I think you are also a good person, who is working so hard. However, I am not satisfied with your answer, not because of your faults, but because I think that the approach is not the right one. You have also mentioned the so-called liquidity decree; although it is certainly not up to you, you know that unfortunately the Ministry has not made the implementing decrees applicable. There are no implementing decrees and therefore many of those money that should be distributed to the companies I was talking about earlier, unfortunately have not arrived. That's the figure. The fact that then you mentioned some solutions of company crisis, we are obviously pleased, it is up to your Ministry to deal with it, but it is clear that what I was most interested in was a real plan aimed at the future that can give the idea that Italy is looking towards the future with a vision. You mentioned the recovery fund, very well; as you know, we have a collaborative approach. Forza Italia has this kind of approach. We offer you today, once again, the opportunity to say that we are not only on the recovery fund, but also on the management of what must be the economic approach to recovery; we find a way for your Ministry, which with you alone is not able to do so, to give overall answers. Who knows that maybe even with our contribution it is not possible to do so. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u35	Senator Lucidi has the right to explain the question 3-02083 on the closure of the Treofan industrial site in Terni, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u36	Mr President, Minister, as I said, we are here to represent the case of the Treofan company (which is located in my city, Terni) and its 150 workers. I would remind this House that polypropylene has been invented and produced in this ternan chemical pole. Thanks to those studies, Italy won a Nobel Prize in the 1960s. This is, therefore, quite a fact. This company was acquired by Jindal, an Indian-German group that at the time - which was also done quite a bit - was one of the main competitors of the ternana company. Minister, as has been said, a crisis table has been activated at your Ministry, but since then the depletion of the production site has continued, with the move of orders to other business sites, all in the complete disinterest of the company, which has never dealt with the issue seriously. This until last November 5, when Manfred Kaufmann, chief executive officer of Jindal, communicated the decision, for him irrevocable and for us inadmissible, to put into liquidation the site ternano. As we have learned from one of your meetings, a liquidator has even been appointed to manage this phase, which will lead to the dismissal of the 150 workers from the outside. Luckily, we still don't know what time it is. The justification that has been given is laughable: the denunciation of the last quarterly in red, in times of world pandemic, is simply an escamotage. The company's intentions were clear from the start: to close a competitor to grab market shares. Despite this, over time the company has acquired state funds and social shock absorbers, not from the last Covid cash for nine weeks, not extended. This is one of the rare cases in which a foreign company arrives in Italy with an entrepreneurial despicability never seen before, which certainly must be stopped as it is also to rub off the Italian Constitution and its articles 41 and 42, which obviously is not the case to repeat in this Assembly. We wonder whether we should inform our European Commissioner for the Economy, Mr Gentiloni, in order to let everyone know what is going on in our European community, which is often not a community. Minister, let me turn to the main question this morning. We ask you to do everything in your power and in your skills to avoid the announced liquidation, through a passage that has already been done very often on your tables, that is the break-up of the branch of the company ternano, thus guaranteeing the continuation of the activity of this site and the well-being of the workers, who are watching us from the gates of the factory and that we greet, who have all the skills to be able to continue this activity alone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u37	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u38	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the interrogating senators. The place case is not very rare. Only today, in the course of this question time, two very similar situations have been reported - those of Whirlpool and Treofan. I therefore reiterate my call to Parliament to intervene with organic legislation that can guarantee our country precisely from these attitudes. In the same way, I urge a snap of our entrepreneurial class. In fact, some businesses like these are actually economically advantageous and that therefore there is no corporate crisis, but the will to acquire slices of the market held by local companies and then close them and guarantee them elsewhere. This is the situation that is very often created in our country. It is therefore desirable that Italian entrepreneurs take over in these moments and invest in our country. I believe that the presence of parliamentarians at the tables set up at the Ministry could lead to greater institutional collaboration, allowing us to find different solutions. You know that the tables are obviously also open to parliamentarians, something that sometimes happens in the conversation with those who live there, thus achieving more success than entrepreneurs, even local ones. I believe that the attitude of the company is absolutely regrettable. We ask exactly the things requested by the interrogating senators, that is, that we can get to the break-up of that part of activity, in order to find an alternative solution to continue production in Terni, since the situation of Battipaglia is actually very different. We therefore remained objectively grounded by the behaviour of the company, which did not accept the proposal in any way and simply unilaterally communicated the putting into liquidation. Undersecretary Todde, who follows the table, keeps me constantly informed. I believe that, at any time there will be my direct intervention, we will have to work at the same time with the Ministry of Labour, because there may be a possible period of conversion that will have to be supported by the right instruments of social cushioning. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Alessandrini has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u39	Minister, as parliamentarians of the League, we agree on the intervention of the split. However, let me say that we do not agree with what you said about the tables organized by the Ministry of Economic Development, which put us in a very difficult situation. In fact, we meet the companies in video conference, based on an algorithm that decides the presence of two parliamentarians of the majority and two of the minority who have requested to participate. We are also talking about listening tables, so we are dealing with complicated and difficult issues, especially at this time, not only for Treofan, as you have already said, but for many other companies and we parliamentarians must be there to listen, without being able to intervene. I would therefore ask you, Minister, on behalf of all the 150 workers and their families, as well as the entire workforce working within the Treofan, as we Members can do in this way. How can we be the spokesmen of our territories, if we have to ask questions and cannot confer, dialogue and debate at these meetings, which are the only moment of confrontation? I repeat, Minister, we are the spokesmen of our territories. I therefore ask you, on behalf of Treofan, Terni and all the companies that live moments of serious difficulty, to make a strong voice, to represent the Government and all the Italians towards the multinationals that arrive in our country, plunder and close. Minister, you represent the government. Make yourself heard and do so for Treofan and for all the companies in Italy today in this serious situation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u40	Senator Lanzi has the right to explain the question 3-02087 on the effectiveness of the 110% superbonus measure in construction for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u41	Mr President, kind Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic of the Covid-19 hit the world like a meteorite, pushing the global economy into the worst recession since the Second World War, damaging consumption, investment and paralysing an increasing and unimaginable number of activities, sectors and markets. It is certain that we are faced with a great challenge, which requires us to implement adequate policies to support and re-launch the economy and the standard of living of our communities. Given that within this panorama the Government, in the start of the green new deal, has undertaken to stimulate the recovery allowing our economy to continue to create value, focusing on a supporting pillar such as the construction sector, to give new impetus to private building, thanks to the 5 Star Movement, the Executive recently introduced the well-known measure of the superbonus to 110 percent, a tool for relaunching and sustainable development that allows to carry out works of anti-seismic improvement and energy efficiency, obtaining a tax deduction higher than the sum spent on such works. In order to make the superbonus even more efficient and effective for the recovery of the economy, the taxpayer can opt for the total discount in invoice or, in case of impossibility of the client to take full advantage of the tax deduction, the measure provides for the transferability of a tax credit of equal amount to any other entity, including financial intermediaries and, again, its putting into circulation without numerical limitation of the passages. From an analysis carried out by Unioncamere and Infocamere at national level, it has emerged that between July and September thanks to this measure 4,971 new construction companies were born, for three quarters consisting of small individual companies specialized in the activities of plant engineering, finishing of buildings, laying of fixtures and tiles, expressions of a small and medium enterprise that is the backbone of the Italian production system. Unioncamere reiterated that the superbonus is playing a crucial role on the vitality of the construction sector, which, again between July and September, had an increase of 0.6 percent on a quarterly basis, twice as much as in the same period of 2019. From a survey commissioned by "easy.it," more than 21 million Italians (the equivalent of more than 9 million families) intend to use the superbonus of 110 percent, a number ideally susceptible to a further increase in view of the 14 million families living in the million condominium buildings estimated on our national territory. The measure arouses enormous interest not only in our country, but also throughout Europe, and the business sector, the population affected by the possible use of the 110% superbonus and the financial and credit institutions feel the need to have guaranteed a longer period of time for the recognition of the tax credit and its disposal, especially in the case of interventions of anti-seismic improvement, whose authorization procedures could strongly affect its actual implementation. It is asked to know: if initiatives have been taken to extend the duration of the measure beyond the current deadline of December 2021, in order to stabilise and make the benefits of the measure lasting on the territories (excellent hypothesis for now until at least 2024); if the possibility of measurement is to be extended also to other cases of environmental protection, such as the reduction of hydrogeological risk classes and measures aimed at saving, reuse and recycling of the precious water resource; if the extension of the audience of the beneficiaries is planned also to the accommodation and hotel facilities, among the most affected by the pandemic, in order to allow the tourism sector a lively and ready recovery, through a green conversion of the building. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u42	The Minister for Economic Development, Senator Patuanelli, has the right to reply to this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u43	Mr President, I believe that the introduction of this measure was the real central element of this summer's relaunch decree. I believe that having introduced the superbonus succeeds in achieving three distinct objectives, all three important for our country: to give breath to a sector, that of construction, that is in crisis since 2008, leading to a strong energy efficiency and greater seismic protection of our old real estate fabric and to ensure that, thanks to the availability of credit, even the less well-off families can live in an apartment and in a building more comfortable and safer. I believe that these are very important objectives, which are achieved by this instrument that the Movimento 5 Stars has so much wanted and which I thank for having pushed even in the last parliamentary term. [[Applause]] It is clear that the time spectrum we have ahead of this measure is too tight and too tight; we are working precisely to expand it. I do not want to give figures or figures, but it is certainly the Government's intention and I imagine that the whole Parliament and all political forces will support the need for an extension of the measure. Compared with the proposals for enlargement of the same which the interrogators have put forward, I believe that new interventions can certainly be introduced which are also driving. I think the water resource is to be protected, but I think it is more difficult to reason on the hydrogeological failure, which very often affects large areas of territory and not a single property. It is clear that opening up to other categories is a reasoning that we must make, but knowing that it is a tool that then produces wealth, but that initially drains resources; therefore it must be aimed at other forms of incentive towards sectors such as tourism, because there are already instruments in the field that can be used by companies in the sector. The parliamentary debate on the budget law will perhaps lead to the introduction of innovative elements in relation to the original text. I think we should also think about rationalizing the whole bonus system, which has been stratified since 1987. The government is working on this seriously and effectively. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u44	Senator Croatti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u45	Mr Minister, we are naturally pleased with the information you have given us. The Movimento 5 Stars, from the beginning, recognized to this extent shock a great strength and we thank both you and Minister Fraccaro for having worked a lot on this issue. It is a novelty that, even before this decree was active, almost 5000 companies, from July to September, were active in the construction market. It's a very important fact. At a time of crisis like this, a measure like this can be an important and incomparable flywheel, both for jobs and, above all, for GDP that can generate at national level. It is, however, crucial, both on the multiannual basis and on the widening of the benefits, an action that you have taken and on which you have fixed the shot. It is very important that we continue. He also mentioned the recovery plan, which is one of the spaces within which you can work to make this measure structural. From Rimini, I am very sensitive to access to measures for hotel and accommodation facilities. We know that there are few resources at the moment, but we need to find an important way forward so that tourism can be able to start again with this manoeuvre in the face of a very great difficulty that it will face in the period 2020-2021. We should find, within this sector, formulas to ensure that, for small Airbnbs, entrepreneurs and hotels present on the territory, at this time of great difficulty, the recovery fund is a stimulus to move forward and not to give up, because many are difficult. I conclude, Minister, by saying that this is a very prestigious maneuver, in my opinion, and the final masterpiece would be able to move the speech also on the subject of reception and the hotel. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u46	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u47	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Colleagues, today marks the sad anniversary of the attack in Nassiriya. It was November 12, 2003 when a tank truck full of explosives burst in front of the entrance of the Italian base, as part of the mission Antica Babylon, causing the death of several people, including police, military and civilian. What happened on that tragic morning is still alive in the memory of all of us. We still remember how all the Italian people were shaken by a wave of sorrowful participation, with hundreds of people parading before the coffins of the fallen exposed in the shrine of the flags of the Victorian. Today, as then, the Senate gathers around the fallen for the values of democracy and solidarity that distinguish our national community. Let's observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u50	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of the House and the Government to yet another lack of prevention, which has involved disasters and disasters (yesterday there have been arrests concerning the deaths of the collapse of the bridge in Genoa) and also real massacres, which have plagued Italy in recent decades, with thousands of deaths, although not comparable to those of the Covid-19, this planetary misfortune that has infected over a million Italians, with almost 43,000 deaths. I am referring in particular to the national pandemic plan, which had to be updated, but which has not been updated. With other Senators of the Movimento 5 Stars we have filed the question 4-04423 also on the basis of the transmission of Rai3 "Report" which constitutes an excellence of information and which someone would even like to close because it tells the truth and represents the journalism of inquiry. "Report" stated that a member of the Scientific Technical Committee, who asked to remain anonymous, stated that, after the declaration of the emergency state, gaining the documents available, they decided to start from the pandemic plan, which they opened and then closed, because it was completely useless. We opened it and threw it in the basket after two minutes. The country paid a very high price for this. That plan doesn't go into detail. Instead, what you do in these moments depends on these very things. In short, you prepare according to the scenarios: intensive therapies, masks. That of the Minister of Health was a plan that was worth zero at operational level. Mr President, General Pierpaolo Lunelli, former commander of the school for nuclear, biological and chemical defence, who helped write military protocols against the pandemic for some countries and who drew up an independent 60-page report filed in Bergamo, said that if we had the updated pandemic plan, we would have fewer than 7,000 deaths. Mr President, that plan was to be drawn up by a gentleman named Ranieri Guerra, but it was not done. The massacres cannot go unpunished. Although this pandemic is a global catastrophe, my call is to prevention and the wrong party must start paying, as happened yesterday for those who were arrested for the collapse of the Morandi bridge in Genoa.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u53	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I speak not to ask questions, but to denounce the fact that the Government is failing to answer questions. I certainly urge you, but the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, which are constitutionally important, do not speak of solicitations and say that within twenty days the Government must respond. I would like to quote some of the questions which have not been answered in due course. On 10 September, the question 3-01924 was tabled on the famous school benches. Three months after the conclusion of the contracts there is no way of knowing how much the approximately 2,400,000 benches were paid, by whom they were purchased, bearing in mind that the only contract that emerged and then - it has been said - was cancelled provided for a price at least three times higher than that of other banks that anyone can easily find on the Internet even with a single purchase. Instead it is about 2,400,000 pieces. I would like to point out that the leading office in this extraordinary affair is the same one that even the Covid vaccines are to be entrusted to. I am really very concerned about this, but then there is no answer to the questions. On August 18, I submitted the question 3-01874 on the protection that the INPS guarantees on privacy, since, apparently, there is a political record: if one is a city councilman and applies for some bonus he can be shamed around. I also asked with the question 3-01872 published on 18 August why Italy abstained in the vote on the human rights motion in Hong Kong in the UN Human Rights Council: are we neutral against those who cut off and repress those who peacefully manifest for freedom? Is Italy neutral? There was no answer. On 20 February, with the question 3-01411, I asked for information on Italian policy with respect to Iran and what economic relations are with a country that supports international terrorism and constantly announces that it wants to destroy the State of Israel. I have also tabled other questions on Iran, but I should like to point this out. On 19 December last I asked why Italy voted in favour of a resolution at the United Nations on the Mount of the Temple of Jerusalem, to which a certain Jesus of Nazareth also went, who asked that the only Arab denomination and cultural connotation be accepted, that is, Haram al-Sharif. I submitted another question on Iran, the 3-01237 of 19 November 2019, another of 22 October 2019, the 3-01197 on the motorway eaves of Genoa. [[Recalls of the President]] President, I'm sorry if I'm going over the time limit that I'm allowed to, but it's the government that's breaking through. I would like to point out one last question, the 3-00975 of 2 July 2019, which asks why, with the funds of the Italian Association for Development Cooperation, there are contiguous and in some cases coincident groups for international cooperation, with organisations also recognised by the European Union as terrorists. Apparently, these are questions the government doesn't want to answer. Perhaps because it cannot, perhaps because it wants to continue, I must deduce, to finance terrorist groups. It's a shameful thing, and I denounce the violation of Senate regulations. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-11-12-LEG18-Senato-sed-275.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday 18 November, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 10.47 p.m.
