ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PISANI Giuseppe, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 2040, already approved by the House of Deputies. I call Senator Dal Mas to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Forza Italia Group has proposed the question of the preliminary ruling QP1 on Decree-Law No 130 of 2020 on immigration rules and also several amendments to the penal code (in particular Articles 131-a, 391-a, 391-b and 588) and rules on international protection. It is clear that the decree at our examination amends some recent measures such as Decree-Law No 113 of 2018 and Decree-Law No 53 of 2019 on immigration. In the decree-law that the House is about to convert is previewed the repeal of the administrative sanction for the ships that violate the prohibition of entry in the Italian State, that it goes from 100.000 euros to a million in addition to the confiscation of the ship. This question will, in our view and as we have seen in the course of the examination in the Commission, give rise to many problems from the point of view of the succession of rules over time, as it is an administrative question or a criminal question. Above all, the decree-law deals with immigration in connection with a plurality of other issues of particular importance: constitutional law, international law and Community law. In the explanatory report it is stated that intervention is necessary in order to alter certain profiles which keep certain constitutional aspects and principles open. Further changes have been approved in the Chamber with respect to the original text of the decree with the news of article 5 - a single text on immigration - which has further widened the scope of application of some norms, both from the temporal point and from the territorial point. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u6	Excuse me. Colleagues, the work of this House has begun, in case anyone has escaped, and we are all interested in listening to Senator Dal Mas' speech. So I would ask my colleagues, on all sides of the Chamber, where we are also speaking out loud, to turn down the volume. I pray Senator Dal Mas, of course you won't be taken from the time I stole from you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u7	Mr President, I find it difficult to speak and I ask the House to pay attention if it is interested, or else I will stop. [[Applause]] We need to speak with the mask: Mr President, at least make it necessary and make Members respect the silence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u8	Senator Dal Mas, that's exactly what I'm doing. I would like to tell you that the buzz is distributed equally among all groups.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u9	Mr President, it is fair: we are in full bipolarism. The decree-law in our view is unlawful and violates the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution. I specifically refer to two interventions by the Constitutional Court, namely Judgment No 171 of 2007 and No 128 of 2008. In other words, in the decree-law there is an apodictic statement on the necessity of urgency of regulatory intervention, but we know that the Court has largely specified that it is not enough to say that necessity and urgency are inherent in the provision, as they must be objectively existing, verifiable and above all must not be connected to the implementation of a government program, but must be in things, in the regulatory requirements. Moreover, the instrument of the decree of urgency is by its nature an exceptional and temporary instrument and above all not repeatable. It is clear that such immediate and short-term interventions affect not only Article 77 of the Constitution, in terms of the maintenance of necessity and urgency, but also from the point of view of Article 70 of the Constitution, i.e. a possible imbalance of regulatory interventions, since in this case the Government prevails over the equal and bicameral function of the legislative initiative, which belongs to the two branches of Parliament. The very important aspect of this measure, which I would like to stress, on which I draw the attention of this House, is its being uneven and heterogeneous. Basically, we started with a law, which covers and explicitly contains in the title the reference to the immigration discipline, resulting from the need to modify the previous Salvini decrees, and we are faced with a measure that covers criminal rules, introduces new sanctions and moves from the right of immigration and international protection to other norms. I therefore recall the recent intervention of the Head of State, with regard to the approval of Decree-Law No 76 of 16 July 2020, in which the Presidents of the Chambers are invited to ensure that, during the parliamentary examination of the decree-laws, heterogeneous rules are not inserted. There is on the point the judgment n. 22 of 2012, by which the Court considered the decree-law unlawful, if its content does not respect the constraint of homogeneity. It refers to a source of non-constitutional rank, but still an act having the force of law, namely Article 15 of the Law of 23 August 1988, n. 400, governing the activity of government and ordering the Presidency of the Council of Ministers. The day before yesterday the President of the Assembly recalled in a precise and unequivocal way the recent intervention of the Constitutional Court, with the judgment n. 247 of 4 December 2019, in which it was affirmed that the inclusion of heterogeneous norms, with respect to the object and the purposes of the decree-law, determines the violation of Article 77 of the Constitution. Why this? The requirement of necessity and urgency, since it is not inherent in its being inserted later - since these rules are inserted during the examination and approval of a measure - cannot actually relate to preliminary conditions of necessity and urgency, but stems from the misuse by Parliament of a power which the Constitution attaches to it in the conversion of the decree. In other words, the law of conversion - which is what we are doing today - represents a functionalized and specialized law that cannot open up to any further content, even in the case of governmental proceedings of heterogeneous origin (order No. 34 of 2013 of the Court) but only admits that they are consistent with the original ones both from the objective and material point of view and from the functional and finalistic point of view. Well, we believe that there is no such thing; we believe that, in the course of the approval of the norm, especially in the Senate, further provisions of law have been introduced that attribute uneven and inconsistent character and conform to the most recent principles and pronouncements of the Court, and for this reason we insist that the profiles of dubious legitimacy be considered from the point of view of the constitutional holding, both in violation of Article 77, second paragraph of the Constitution, and for that imbalance of the legislative function, indicated in Article 70, which assigns equal conditions, in the exercise of the legislative function, to the Chambers. Mr President, I hope I have a few more minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u10	You still have two minutes, Senator Dal Mas, but I'm sure you'll get at least one or two for my interruption. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u11	BY MAS (FIBP-UDC). I would like to recall some points of the text that came out of the House, which amended the original decree-law, in particular with reference to Article 1, paragraph 1, laying down provisions on residence permits and border controls. Interventions were made on the provision relating to the DPCM which annually establishes foreign entry flows. Following the changes made it is expected that, in the event of failure to publish the annual programming decree, the President of the Council of Ministers will be able to provide on a transitional basis with his own decree, and therefore the deadline of 30 November of each year and the limit of the quotas established by the last decree have been abolished. The new discipline, as mentioned above, replaces that introduced by the recent decree-safety law- bis of June 2019, providing that the provision of limitation or prohibition can also concern the transit and the rest of the ships without reference to the entrance. Exclusion shall be granted for rescue operations immediately communicated to the coordination centre responsible for the flag State. In addition, as I said earlier - I insist on this point - it is expected that the administrative sanction of the ban on entry into territorial waters will be abolished. We have tried to give as comprehensive and comprehensive an overview as possible of the measures affected by constitutional illegitimacy or at least require an assessment, preliminary examination and prevent examination of the substance of the measure. I would also like to remind you of the instrumental use that the majority has made of these decree-laws, given the long process of approval, the long period for which the text has been stationed in the House and has been modified over time, arriving at the last moment at the question of trust, which is in fact placed in a closed box, after a few days of examination by the Senate, further precluded the exercise of legislative activity and the control - by Parliament - of the work carried out by the Government. In our view, therefore, there are no requirements of necessity and urgency; in our view, Article 70 is indirectly infringed. I recall the presidency of the Senate, as President Casellati did the other day very clearly, when he referred to the most recent orientation of the Constitutional Court which stated the inadmissibility of decree-laws containing heterogeneous rules. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u12	I call Senator Balboni to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share Mr Dal Mas' remarks just now and I would like to remind this House so distracted that our Constitution, Article 77, gives the Government the power to intervene, of course, by decree-laws, but only in extraordinary cases - and I stress the word 'extraordinary' - of necessity and urgency. An extraordinary case is an exceptional fact, which imposes in an inevitable and immediate way the necessity and urgency to intervene, dictating without delay a new discipline. Well, where is the exceptional fact in the decree-law in question? The measure has been announced for a year and three or four months, i.e. exactly since this new Government took office. Already the fact that for a year and beyond you announce a decree-law means that it is no longer exceptional or urgent. The measure intervenes in the matter of immigration, as if immigration were a new, unknown fact, on which no legislation has intervened for many years, in the end that of 2018 that you, majority and government, with the measure in question you want to upset. In fact, Mr President, there is no exceptional fact, unfortunately, there is no need and there is no urgency. The only urgency you have of the Government and the majority is to carry out your ideological immigrant plan once again: the only objective of this decree-law is to satisfy your immigrant ideology. At a time when Italy and the whole world are in an extreme difficulty, you find nothing better than to widen the immigration jerseys as far as possible, so that desperate people from all over the world receive a clear and precise message from Italy: come as many as you can here, you are greeted endlessly. This is the message that you send with this decree-law which, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly unconstitutional because, as my colleague Mr Dal Mas pointed out earlier, there is in the most absolute way missing that criterion of homogeneity of the norms contained in it reported by the Constitutional Court, which recalls Article 77 of the Constitution and Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988: if there is no homogeneity, the decree-law is illegitimate. Rapporteur Silvestri, I would like to read the judgment of the Constitutional Court No 22 of 2012, in my opinion very indicative, according to which the rules contained in the decree-law must have an intrinsic consistency from an objective and material point of view, that is functional and finalistic. The urgent need to provide can thus concern a plurality of rules common to the unitary nature of the cases governed or the intention to deal with complex and variegated situations, which require objectively heterogeneous interventions, relating to different subjects, but - attention - directed to the sole purpose of approving urgent remedies. The common object or purpose of the rules is characterized by the homogeneity of the content of the decree imposed by Article 77 of the Constitution, which refers to the presuppositions of the decree of urgency to the act in its entirety, understood as a set of uniform provisions for the matter or for the purpose. It concludes the Court: in the absence of homogeneity, the decree-law would fall into a congery of rules assembled only by mere temporal chance. And that is exactly what happens with this decree-law, because, as my colleague Mr Dal Mas also mentioned, it is true that from Article 1 to Article 6 we talk about immigration, but Article 7 amends Article 131- bis of the penal code; Article 8 amends Article 391- bis of the penal code; Article 9 introduces a new article into the penal code; Article 10 even amends Article 588 of the penal code in the matter of brawl. Article 11 on the prohibition of access to public establishments for those who have complaints... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u14	Colleagues, it seems to me that fortunately nothing has happened. We can go on. [[Brusio.]] I'll calm you down, you can absolutely continue to follow Senator Balboni's intervention. Senator Questere De Poli tells me to warn colleagues who sit on the stands not to lean on the so-called balconies and not to distract themselves, because mobile phones are known to have their own life and walk alone.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u15	Mr President, I hope that I will be given the opportunity to make up for the time I have lost.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u16	Of course. Please, Senator Balboni, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u17	Balboni (FdI). I was saying that Article 11 of the decree-law in question deals with the prohibition of access to public establishments of those who have complaints or convictions for drug dealing or for crimes committed in the event of serious disturbances. Article 12 deals with combating drug trafficking via the Internet. Article 13 even intervenes in the matter of the National Guarantor of Prisoners. These are completely uneven standards. Then we ask ourselves: what can be the goal that all these norms share? It would be thought that, in your opinion, immigration really creates serious problems in the field of drug dealing and security; this could be the only common thread in all these rules. But since the majority and the government have always denied this evidence, then it must be concluded that there is no thread in common with all these norms. To make myself aware of this, I went to read the preamble to the decree-law. As you all know, colleagues, Article 15 of Law No. 400 of 1988 in paragraph 1 requires - not an option for the Government, but a provision of law - that in the preamble to a decree-law the extraordinary circumstances of necessity and urgency which justify its adoption are indicated. Has any of you read the preamble? Ladies and gentlemen, as I speak, my dear group leaders, who continue to speak with my back as I speak, have you read the preamble to the decree-law? Have you checked whether the preamble indicates the extraordinary circumstances of necessity and urgency justifying its adoption? Have you read it? I did, and there's nothing. Let me give you just one example: amend five articles of the penal code. How do you justify this in the preamble? Can I read it to you? It considers the extraordinary need and urgency to introduce provisions on criminal law. This is the justification that, in your opinion, should meet the requirement set out in Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988. Dear friends and colleagues, I really believe that we must conclude that this decree is declared unconstitutional and that, therefore, today, we accept our preliminary ruling to close here the examination of matters that would require much more in-depth discussion, much more debate and much more debate than the few minutes we are given to examine such important issues. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u18	I call Senator Calderoli to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP3.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u19	Mr President, I would like to make a brief statement on what has just happened. I never thought being a senator was so dangerous and how some senator is so dangerous. [[Applause]] I hope that the Presidency will allow us to come to this House with a helmet and, of course, with the necessary mask.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u20	There is also a certain readiness of the senators and, therefore, we counter-balance.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u21	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). I'd talk about some luck in this case. It's still with a phone in hand that leans over the balustrade and the other one has it in his hand. I think it's a relapse that's happening and I'm asking for a formal reminder. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. All right, let's get into this. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Dolly is one thing; manslaughter is another. I have the Constitutional Charter in my hands and I hope that everyone will have it, even if it is not enough to have it, because sometimes we should also open it, read it and possibly even understand it. If, in fact, one had done so, it would immediately appear unnecessary, urgent and extraordinary the provision to our examination. Let us start from the first requirement that a decree-law should have, namely - it is the case law of the Court that says so - the criterion of homogeneity. I am not repeating what our colleagues said earlier. If a person reads the title, he sees that homogeneity has something to do with the content of this provision, and the President of the Senate has rightly assigned it to the 1st and 2nd Commissions. The President of the 2nd Committee also rightly asked that he be assigned to his own Commission for examination at the meeting. [[Applause]] There has been a major controversy on the part of the majority over these decisions. The controversy has also continued in the Commission, where it has come to accuse President Ostellari of having lied about the decisions taken. Someone mentioned a fake in public action in the minutes of the 2nd Commission. I would like to thank Senator Evangelista, who said that the minutes were correct and that the behaviour of President Ostellari was absolutely respectful of what had happened in the Commission. [[Applause]] Sometimes, then, it takes some mea culpa, because maybe some ox could avoid giving the donkey cuckold. The need for joint examination is all the more evident, with the subjects dealt with in the various articles: six speak of immigration, eight of sanctions and the part of justice. It is not that there is a lot of reason for the kilo, it is true, but it is absolutely clear that there was a need for joint examination. In addition to this, I would like to remind those who have forgotten that this decree amends, in the prevailing part, the decree-law Salvini 2. In his examination of the Chamber of Deputies, President Fico assigned the measure to the I and II Commission and nobody said anything. [[Applause]] It is not that, when the operation is done in the Chamber of Deputies, it is the operation of Figo and, when it is done in the Senate instead - I do not say a bad word - it is another thing, which recalls the name of the President of the House. It's the right thing, period. Among other things, the reason why we go to make this decree-law is last year's letter in which the President of the Republic warned us that the first requirement is homogeneity, and then - and this is ridiculous - we send him such a decree. The three points he makes concern the sanctioning aspects and therefore the chapter on justice. It is worth mentioning them: it speaks of administrative sanctions for the prohibition of entry of ships, of respect for international constraints and of the rule of contempt to public officer. Everything else you put in it has absolutely nothing to do with it. [[Applause]] If someone wants to read it again, Article 77 of the Constitution requires the Government to take interim measures by force of law in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency. Well, let us start with the urgency: the Council of Ministers approves the measure on 6 October, but it is published in the Official Journal on 21 October and enters into force on 22 October sixteen days later. Where was that decree-law? Did they keep it in the drawer for the sake of safety, so they argue about everything, or did anyone even think about it sixteen days before signing it and sending it to the Chambers? [[Applause]] Sixteen days for urgency? That sounds very questionable to me. Not only that, but the day after the birth of the Government Count 2, in August 2019, in the statements of the representatives of the left, from the first day and every day, the first necessary and urgent thing to do for the country was to abolish the decree-law Salvini. Someone can think of it that way, too bad we were in August 2019 and today we are in December 2020. After thirteen months, have you determined that it was necessary and urgent? This isn't happening. If you're late, I don't say mental, but legislative like that, I don't see it. Let's move on to the other requirement, the necessity. It was necessary to intervene, because it is necessary to contain the entry of irregulars. So let's go see the substance, the numbers. As Senator Candiani teaches me, because he was Undersecretary at the time, at the time of the Gentiloni Government, when Minniti was already there and had reduced them, in 2018, there were 23,000 cases. With the Government Count I, with Salvini Minister, the cases were 11,000; with the Government Count II, with the Minister Lamorgese, the cases are over 33,000. Let's squeeze. With Salvini they had halved; with Minister Lamorgese they tripled. Someone in the Commission also said that it is not enough just to look at the numbers, but that there is also the humanitarian aspect. The humanitarian aspect is that, during the period when Salvini was Minister, the dead and the missing had halved. [[Applause]] The numbers, ladies and gentlemen, do not apply only in terms of the people who arrive. Unfortunately, there is also an economic burden to bear. Gentleman period of government: 2.2 billion. The funds had already been halved, compared with the 5 billion that Renzi spent. Period of the Count Government, with Salvini minister: 500 million. I keep the 2.2 good and not the 5 billion good. I wonder: with those 1.7 billion more, which you had spent and which were spared with Salvini, how many breathers, how many hospitals Covid-19, how many more intensive care beds could have been realized? I conclude with the last requirement, also mentioned by my colleague Mr Balboni: extraordinaryness. There must be an extraordinary case. Now, I'm taking a picture of the days when the measure was issued. In fact, I went to read the data of 23 October: in the last week of that month, we had already reached 20,000 new cases and 2,000 deaths. Today's photo, when we convert the measure (or, better, you will try to convert it), reveals that Italy has the maximum number of deaths compared to all Europe. Worldwide, we have surpassed the total number of deaths in World War II. There is the second wave and perhaps we are witnessing a relapse or a third wave and the most urgent thing to do is to open the ports, make it easier to acquire the residence permit and convert it into a work permit (which must also be given to those who do not have a job). We have therefore seen the ports open and let him know also on the other side of the Mediterranean, and then see them arrive from Tunisia, piled up, as they have seen in the news, without doing the buffer, thus favoring the possible spread of the contagion between them, and left free to run around without anyone had controlled them. And what's even worse: some have hit themselves, who have been successful, have fled and have potentially gone around to infect the population. [[Applause]] One final point, Mr President, on which I am really finishing. The increase in numerical data was not achieved only after 23 October. It was also carried out in the previous months, except in a small period, in which some laws still applied. If, however, the increase was, even when the decrees-Salvini law were in force, it means that someone did not apply the law. [[Applause]] At this point, if it is omission of an act of office or aiding illegal immigration, I leave it to you, because this is the responsibility of the Government. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, but if I circulate or let anyone I know to be positive at the swab, at that point, there is also another kind of aiding, that of the epidemic, and not manslaughter, but arson. In that case, then, we are not just referring to Article 37, because Article 32, which regulates compulsory health care, must be applied to those who take such measures. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u22	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u25	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the prevailing doctrine believes that the union on the necessity and urgency of the act is of a purely political nature, even if judicial outcome is possible. Article 15 of Law No 400 of 1988 indicates the hypotheses in which it is not possible to use the decree-law and we must never forget that the one at our examination was issued by the President of the Republic. So, if we take these facts for granted, and that can't be different, we have to do another kind of report and observations. The report which introduces the measure - and I, Senator Balboni, have read it, as you did - states that there has been an extraordinary need and urgency to clarify certain profiles by remodulating them, taking into account the constitutional principles and international law in force in this area. That is the point of the problem. The Salvini decrees conflicted with the principles of our Constitution and international human rights law. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, in Article 1, states that human dignity is inviolable. It must be respected and protected. The preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that the recognition of the specific dignity and equal and inalienable rights of all members of human society is the basis of freedom, justice and peace in the world. Human rights represent the inalienable rights that every man possesses; the right to life and to a dignified existence. Giovanni Maria Flick, who was also evoked in the debate in the Commission by some of you, President emeritus of the Constitutional Court, in his recent short essay, "E Praise of Dignity," makes this statement: "Dignity is the premise and condition of equality and at the same time of diversity; it is an expression and fruit of solidarity; it is the foundation and limit of freedom." The return of the dignity of a human being: this is the necessity and urgency of the decree-law to our examination. [[Applause]] In order to pass a page in the history of national law, the decrees of the then Minister pro tempore inside, with extraordinary ease - I would say with guilty determination - had debilitated it as a non-essential fact. Ex facto oritur ius, as a Latin brocardo states. With the decrees Salvini, ex iure oritur factum: immigrants are deleted as people. The government decree returns the exact order of things and an inalienable right of man, his dignity. For these reasons, we shall vote against the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u26	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u28	CUCCA (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I believe that it is time to reject a theory that has been supported several times in this House, according to which, in times of emergency - in this case, health care - every measure that exonerates from the strictly pandemic one must be marked with a judgment of inadequacy to the spirit of the times and the need to address the main aspect, as a result of the economic emergency, due to the spread of the pandemic. Parliament has always continued its work never stopped, it has not stopped a day. The country continues with the usual life and with the usual works, which are equally significant compared to the commitments to which the political class cannot abdicate. We are fully aware not only of the urgency of this measure, but above all of its necessity in relation to the enormous failures that are before everyone's eyes and which we see in the everyday life of our lives, even in this time of pandemic. I am referring to the failures caused by the adoption of the so-called Salvini decrees. We have repeatedly defined them the decrees of lawlessness; today instead those same people who were the protagonists of their emanation challenge a legislative intervention that restores a system of justice, of controlled social inclusion, of equity and - to say it in a single word - of legality. Mr Bressa, who preceded me, set out this criterion well and comprehensively. Today we definitively delete those bankruptcy measures, even in the light of the reliefs of the Quirinale; this cannot be forgotten or, better, you cannot pretend to have forgotten the reliefs that were immediately brought to our attention by the Quirinale. The failure of those measures is before everyone's eyes. They had the declared, flagged and advertised purpose of reducing landings; instead, as is known and as statistics show us irrefutablely, there was an increase in those landings precisely during the lifetime of the so-called security decrees. Another contest that must be sent back to the sender is that of the irregulars, who - even this was an emergency - have increased just after the entry into force - as it happens - of the so-called security decrees, which had abolished the so-called humanitarian protection, exponentially increasing the number of people who irregularly stay in our territory. We take note of the fact that urgency exists and existed; this measure therefore intervenes just to heal that inefficiency and those injustices. It is a measure whose urgency - to tell the truth - was even more pressing in the timing with which it was realized; but, at the same time, it was necessary, because we have to face a season that unfortunately is still long and of which we do not yet know the real times. The opposition is often affected by a lot of other things, which, however, strikes - it is well to admit - the forces that are in opposition. Especially with regard to that well-offering, it is good to remember that those measures - renamed security decrees - introduced elements that disturbed the tranquillity and even the security of public communication; I refer, for example, to the news spread about the contagion by the irregulars. This is objectively a lie, used to influence public opinion and to create and spread the narration of those who, in contempt of the most elementary humanitarian principles, have fed an absolutely fake general picture. Finally - as I mentioned in the preamble - the changes that we make to the texts today, in fact overturning their content, are not the result of a whim or of the will to assert something different from the majority that wanted and supported those decrees. The speeches that we are taking forward and which we are about to approve today are essentially references to the principles set out by the President of the Republic, when - by way of example, but certainly not exhaustive of the failures and twists that these measures have presented immediately, which had been challenged in the immediacy by us, which were then in opposition, and which are still present - indicated Article 7, in which reference was made to a general public official. Tendentially, it is thought that an official public can only be a policeman or, in any case, a representative of the Forces of Order and instead, from a careful reading, we realize that it can also be a simple teacher; it is a norm, therefore, also that, affected by obvious doubts of constitutionality, because it does not correspond to a principle of reasonableness. Not to mention the disproportionate measures: one million euros of fine is obviously a sanction that serves only as a commercial, because it would not be possible to claim its payment. It is useless, then, to make mirrors for the lark and boast to be harsh and hard, but rather we face the problem, as we are doing and as we have always done, in a reasonable and correct manner and above all with the intention of having precise results. I must stress that the opposition to the change of those decrees-laws is sterile and inappropriate, because in fact we are adjusting them, in order to bring them to the limits of the reasonableness and concrete implementation of the principles they would have liked to pursue, while they have only been permeated by the understanding of making propaganda and demagogy. The opposition should perhaps thank us, then, for putting an end to the injustice and twists created by those measures. Moreover, during this period of pandemics, interventions are more necessary. In addition to the fight against that invisible virus, this Parliament, with the conversion of the decree-law that we hope to bring into port today, affirms principles of deep attention in the meantime to the emergency that we live, but also to all the problems consequent to the emanation and the application of the so-called decrees Salvini, and also refers to the application of a principle that our Constitution imposes on us, that of the respect of the human person, of the widespread justice and of our juridical civilization. It is for this reason that talking about profiles of unconstitutionality of this measure, for the usual reasons of the absence of urgent requirements, seems really out of place and above all far from the needs of this country at the very moment that we are living and that should call us to a sense of higher responsibility. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u29	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u31	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to dwell on the problem we have here today, on the question of unconstitutionality and on the fact that the decree-law presupposes that there are criteria of necessity and urgency. Mr Balboni has already explained this very well. I would also like you to reflect on another issue that has been neglected so far, namely that the President of the Republic, as some of you will recall, has taken fifteen days: a very long time, which should make you think. Colleagues, ask yourself questions and give yourself answers, if the President of the Republic has taken so long to sign this decree-law. I believe that the criteria of necessity and urgency, above all, are not present on the Italian agenda. Today the Italians ask you to have other answers. Today, December 18, they ask you how they can spend their Christmas. Our merchants, restaurateurs, entrepreneurs and workers ask you if they will be able to open their stores and today - Thursday, December 18 - you have not yet given them answers. I believe that instead of blocking the House from discussing this decree of insecurity and lawlessness (which is in fact the plastic representation that you are a lunar government), you should - and I beg you to do so - land on earth, descend from the moon and immerse yourself in the real country! That's what you should do. But no, stay on the moon, away from the problems of the Italians... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u32	Senator Garnero Santanchè, I'm sorry to interrupt. Colleagues, please, it is not compulsory to stay in this Chamber, while it is necessary to allow my colleague to speak. The Presidency is also struggling to follow. Besides, the mask doesn't help us. Please, Senator Garnero Santanchè.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u33	Thank you, Mr President. Italians, ladies and gentlemen, are not asking you to abolish borders; Italians do not ask you to increase the traffic in the Mediterranean of NGOs and scafisti; Italians do not ask you to increase the turnover of cooperatives dealing with the management of migrants. They do not ask you all this and, above all, do not ask you to increase the dead in the Mediterranean, because that is what will happen with your decree. Remember these words, for those dead will weigh upon your consciences. In fact, that's what you do today. The Italians ask you much more. I understand that this is the biggest commercial you're doing, but it's dangerous because to all the misery in the world you send the message that they can come to our nation to do whatever they want. Do you realize the injustice against Italians? You are the ones who have limited their constitutional freedoms. Sure, there's a pandemic. We are not negationists, we are aware of the moment. But just because the moment is dramatic from a health and economic point of view, what do you do instead? Divide the Italians into A-series and B-series citizens. You are busy making Italy the refugee center of Europe and collecting all the miseries of the world, without giving the answers to the Italians. I think you should be ashamed of this attitude. Today - Thursday, December 18 - rather than meeting the many needs of our fellow countrymen, you take care of the illegals, increase the turnover and increase the traffic in the Mediterranean. I would like to conclude, Mr President, although there are so many things to say. I am confident in the Italians, who will be able to judge the work of this Government. They will judge your distance with people's needs. They will judge this government's behaviour. On Thursday, December 18, when Italians do not have answers about what will happen in the next few days, instead give them certainties. You who fill your mouths with Europe, using it according to your conveniences, have not even listened to the words of von der Leyen, when he said that Italy must take responsibility for defending the Italian borders, which are also those of Europe. Congratulations. With the decree on our examination, from today, the Italians have a certainty: in our nation the borders have been abolished. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u36	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the first question I want to address is that the constitutional prejudices on the decree-law in our examination, and also the speeches made, have been based on the lack of the prerequisites of necessity and urgency, so much so that reference has been made to the long time gone by and even to the fact that, before promulgating the decree, more days have passed. Instead, we believe that the main prerequisite for issuing this decree, therefore the necessity and urgency, was the restoration of the constitutional principles that had been systematically violated, as various interventions have demonstrated over time, with the two security decrees, the so-called Salvini decrees. Does it not seem necessary and not urgent to restore constitutional principles? I think that is the fundamental problem. It was not by chance that the second decree was accompanied by a letter from the President of the Republic which said very clearly what were the elements on which to intervene and the profiles of constitutional violation, starting with Article 10 of our Constitution. It was enough only and only this to make it necessary to intervene by decree-law. With regard to the other point raised, the unevenness, I was curiously going to recover the constitutional prejudices that we had presented on the two decrees in question and, if we want to have a specific debate on this, I think they were a clear example of how we should not act in the context of urgent decision-making. For my political part, therefore, this was what justified necessity and urgency, as we stressed from the outset. President Calderoli recalled the programmatic point that spoke about it and we are proud that this majority has kept its faith in the implementation of one of the policy points that gave birth to it. In fact, when constitutional principles are systematically violated, as we have also seen in the application, the founding pact of our Republic is damaged. Here international conventions and treaties, to which our Constitution refers, were systematically violated. That is what we are talking about and that is the point. In addition, accounts are made of the fact that, since the current Government is in office, landings have increased. But how, colleagues? You have told us that the decree-law in question has arrived late and that it has taken us a long time: I would therefore like to remind you that, until its enactment, the previous decrees were in force. I would also like to add another fundamental element, which concerns the need and urgency of intervention: to the accounting of landings, which has been mentioned, I would like to add another one, which is systematically removed and which concerns everything that has provoked the previous decrees, making thousands and thousands of people invisible from one hour to the next, from morning to evening. Colleagues, this is what you have produced with previous decrees. [[Applause]] This accounting, which you forgot, cost the country a lot. You talk a lot about legality, but it cost a lot! There is not only a violation of international rights and treaties, but a real damage. Those decrees-laws, which you pompously called security decrees, have actually produced only and only insecurity. Also ask if this was the urgency during the pandemic. [[Brusio. Call the president back.]] Look, colleagues, that's exactly the point. For months, almost a year now, we have been working incessantly on the country's emergency, but precisely for this reason it was even more right to intervene to remove the problems that had been created with the security decrees. With regard to the issue of the invisible, it is very clear what the consequences are. It was also necessary and urgent to remove, as has been done with the decree-law in question, another shame: we would then have liked, if there had been time, to improve some more rules and we will certainly be able to do so in the future, because the debate from this point of view is broad and there is the possibility of doing so. It was therefore necessary to remove another shame, closing with persecution against NGOs, that is, those who save lives. The previous decrees, in fact, had produced its criminalization, making it a crime to save lives, which is not only the fundamental principle of those who are at sea, but is the guiding principle of every human being. [[Applause]] On this there was the need and urgency to intervene and the decree-law does so rightly, in a clear and balanced way, ensuring that, also on this aspect, we return to our tradition. I would like to remind everyone why the NGOs had to intervene. With the cancellation of the Mare nostrum mission, in fact, there was no longer a series of necessary interventions, carried out as a European Union. We hope that all this will return and then you will see that there will no longer be the problem of ensuring the possibility of saving lives. The measure before us deals with another question on which the Constitutional Court has intervened. Was there not an urgent need to remove the prohibition on registration, on which the Court had already ruled, declaring it unconstitutional? I could go on, citing the reception system. Even then, what was it? Was it a secure system for the country and for our citizens what was planned to build large centers thus creating huge problems on the territory? It would have been right, rather, to restore a small, widespread reception system that had given excellent results and that will continue to give them through this decree-law, not only in terms of management, but also in reference to the ultimate goal, which is the path of integration. We have also intervened by restoring the fundamental issue, namely by putting our rules in line with Article 10 of the Constitution through the possibility to activate special, very wide protection systems, which therefore allow us to intervene as humanitarian protection. This explains the conditions of necessity and urgency. In conclusion, we are all convinced that we will have to intervene again in an overall way, finally, on the whole immigration issue and put in hand once and for all to repeal what I and many of us in here consider the true criminal law, namely the Bossi-Fini. [[Applause.]] For these reasons, we reject the constitutional prejudices. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u37	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u38	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u39	BITI (PD). Mr President, Mr Vice-Minister, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to thank my Group for allowing me to speak in this debate on the preliminary rulings that have been tabled. I could simply begin and close my speech by saying that the decree-law security and immigration we are examining, and that it has already received the vote of the House of Deputies... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u40	Senator, forgive me for interrupting. Colleagues, please, the buzz is very loud and covers the voice of my colleague. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u41	I said that the text that we are examining these days in the relevant Commissions - and now also in this House - already passed, after a very long debate - more than a week in the Chamber, and even earlier in the Commissions - in the Chamber of Deputies, was born in the wake of two decree-laws: the decree-law security and immigration and the last so-called security-law bis of August 2019. It is born in that furrow, and we refer to those measures. I would remind you that at the time we too had submitted preliminary questions, which had been rejected, and that is enough for me to say that we are now intervening on texts that had been examined for constitutionality in the classrooms, and that therefore now can only have the same treatment. I'll go into more detail. The President of the Republic, as you know - he has been quoted several times - sent a letter to the President of the Council in August 2019 talking about a promulgation with reservation, which is not a rejection, but almost. The promulgation with reservation derives from precise indications that the Head of State gives in terms of the necessity of proportionality between sanctions and behaviours and of fundamental compliance with international regulations. It is not small, it is much for a country like Italy that, within the framework of international agreements, has always been at the forefront in respecting and promoting them. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court notes certain questions about the security 1, security 2 decrees, Salvini - I no longer know what to call them - concerning the foreclosure of the registration, which comes of itself, with a little logic and a little reasoning. It is obvious that if people do not recognize them, the lying out will be invisible, and where there is invisibility there will be nothing good either for the invisible people or for all the others who live around. These are the terms for which these decree-laws have been re-examined and reported in these classrooms. You speak of a lack of homogeneity, but here too I should like to remind you that all the issues relating to security and immigration contained in the decree-law under consideration were present in the previous decree-laws, always in the same line you have outlined, colleagues from the opposition, in which we therefore act. It was necessary to bring back to the attention of the issues in order to return to this country its human and just face that in history has never been lacking. You complain, or in any case in the questions referred for a preliminary ruling - excuse me, I use a better term - about the lack of the conditions of necessity and urgency in the measure, so I have a question that I also ask the Government through you, Mr President. I don't get it back, because the opposition claims that there is no urgency, because Decree-Law No 130 of 2020 now intervenes after a year and a few months, but it also claims that the numbers of landings and illegal immigrants in our country have increased. The accounts do not return because until October there were so-called Salvini decrees and for this reason we consider urgent the decree-law under consideration. However, I would like to focus on other urgencys which the Democratic Party believes it is necessary to bring to the attention of this House. The urgency of respect for the lives of people, humanity, justice and dignity of every life, whether it be Italian, African, Asian or anywhere in the world, never fails. [[Applause]] Humanity, justice, importance and the sacredness of life never fail and will always have for us the importance of urgency and priority. In my opinion, this ontologically separates us from you. It is also urgent - and I say this to myself and to all the parties in this House - to put an end to speculation, because, ladies and gentlemen, where you accuse us of speculating on the lives of the people we are ferrying at sea (because of this you accuse us of), we fight against the accusation of speculating electorally on the insecurity that would be brought by migrants. I believe that it does not honour the House and the roles that we stand so low and throw ourselves into the mediocrity of these inverted accusations that we are constantly moving. I believe that this issue is important and that it is urgent to report on the truth, that we should not talk about insecurity or lack of security by approaching the migrant, the different, a person who has difficulties, more than we are privileged at the moment. We must restore the truth of respect for life and people in this world of ours. Each State has the right to regulate migratory flows and to implement policies dictated by the general needs of the common good, but always ensuring respect for the dignity of each person: the right of the person to emigrate is enrolled among fundamental human rights, with the ability of each one to settle where he believes most appropriate for a better realization of his own abilities, aspirations and projects, in short, where he believes most appropriate for a better realization of his abilities. This tells us that migration - but we know it or should know it anyway - has been a complex phenomenon, which has been in the history of the world, of humanity, for thousands of years. We also have the urgency to tell ourselves that the phenomenon of migration is complex, and how all complex phenomena require deepening, study and therefore fatigue, and will lead to complex responses. I listened to the speeches in the Commission and a few colleagues from the House also said to me: You're a little confused with your head, because I also listened from home to the speeches in general discussion in the House. I've heard some really unstoppable things. It is appropriate to report the truth, namely that we should have the courage to abandon speculation and to tell ourselves that the protection of the other is important and must be done seriously, responsibly, constructively, and we should always have it as a priority. [[Comments.]] I've got one more minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u42	Colleagues, the time available for the speeches is kept by the Presidency, strictly and also taking into account the needs of all the Groups. I cannot identify the author of the call, which is absolutely out of place. Please, Senator Biti, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u43	Thank you, Mr President, I shall begin to conclude. I was saying there's a certain truth to be reported. I am convinced of what I had already established and I confirmed it by listening again to my speech of August 2019, that is the fact that we are different ontologically and by formation. For us, life, humanity, the rights and justice of every person count. I could be a migrant one tomorrow, like you, Mr President, could be the day after tomorrow; each of us, ladies and gentlemen, at this time is lucky enough not to migrate, but we never know what can happen and this year we are being taught it. We could all find ourselves one day having to go to another country out of necessity or choice, because we think that we could have a better life there. This is only the first step - and I say this to my party - and we expect much more to solve this phenomenon. It is not enough - I am addressing you, Mr Vice-Minister, and the President, but you know this - this decree-law to deal with such a complicated phenomenon. As Mrs De Petris pointed out, the so-called Bossi-Fini law is no longer relevant; this was also said yesterday by a colleague from Forza Italia. We need a serious, constructive and responsible commitment. We're here, we have to be there. For me and the Democratic Party this remains an urgent priority, and that is why we are voting no to the questions referred for a preliminary ruling. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u44	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u46	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that immigration is not an invitation that also gives a future perspective to the Italian people, because I tell you that you are on the right track. [[Applause]] We hope that this measure will not pass, because it is incomplete and not only: it is unconstitutional, the prerequisites of necessity and urgency are lacking. Above all, I want to say to you that in terms of substance, as we were talking about truth, I will allow myself to highlight some elements that I hope will make this House understand the reasons why this is not a security decree-law, but is the absolute insecurity decree. [[Applause]] This is the immigration decree, the clandestine decree. You are turning Italy into a large refugee camp: this is the truth. And I want to understand why, at such a delicate moment, when we are facing considerable economic problems, serious problems and also related to the pandemic, why someone believes that one can think and imagine that Italy can be receptive. How many? I ask you a question, an important question. You have to tell me what the limit of immigration is in Italy. [[Applause]] What is it? How many more can we welcome decently? How many people can we offer a worthy home, a job and help? 10,000, 20,000, 50,000? Give us a number and then, from the left, explain with your fantasies and your imagination what we should do with that one more coming. We have a principle that we want to follow and say that Italy is not in a position to continue this policy of reception, which is insane. To those who listen to us we say that there is no need for the interpretation of politicians; it takes the psychiatrist to understand why you have arrived and have gone so far. [[Applause]] True, the good God and geography have placed us in the center of the Mediterranean, between the North and the South of the world, have put us perhaps in a condition of difficulty: we are a wonderful open-air garden, we are a great museum, we bearers of an extraordinary civilization, the Greek-Roman and Jewish-Christian; we are a point of reference and - let me say - civilization for the battles of freedom that we have been able to bring and for the great love that we have also been able to give to the nations, abroad. No one thinks, then, that in the center-right there is or can even just accommodate the idea of racism or something else, that we consider an infection of the spirit. [[Applause]] Racism is an infection of the spirit; I want to reiterate that. I also want to say, however, that telling hundreds of thousands of young people who come from Africa that you can come here and find Eldorado, the earthly paradise is an act that we judge politically criminal. We cannot continue on this path. [[Applause]] You must realize the situation in which we live. Since we love and want to defend this Italy, we tell you that you may be able to pass this measure, but we, as center-right, take on a commitment because, sooner or later, when you let us vote, we will go back to governing this Italy and among the first laws that we will cancel there will definitely be this. [[Applause]] We want to say that this repeal will be - we will say goodbye, if there is going to be - a very important moment and I add that I do not understand why, at a time when the Government comes to tell us that we are in the red zone, that Italy risks turning into a red zone, in which we will not be able to move from one country to another, to the south of the Mediterranean, in Lampedusa we have the green zone. This is absolutely inconceivable. [[Applause]] I would not like to have any interest in this because Buzzi in that unforgettable interview had to say that more is done with immigration than with drugs. It's a shame! [[Applause]] More and more wretched come; well - we want to say it with courage - can we guarantee them true dignity? If we are the first to say that it is right to welcome those who run away and those who are persecuted - they are principles that we want to continue to defend - we must also say with absolute firmness that those who come to Italy to sell, combine trouble and end up in the patrie galere it is not fair that it permanga on our national territory and must be absolutely expelled. [[Applause]] Ours is a battle of firmness in defense of Italy and since the cost we are supporting is a very high cost, I invite you to think and reason on the opportunity to start looking at a different horizon: we help Africa with intervention plans [[Applause]] , with what we called a great Marshall plan, but let's help them on the spot, because immigration is not a right, it may be an aspiration, for some it may be a hope, but it is not a right. The real right is to stay at home, so with smart investment plans we operate in that direction. There are countries, such as Norway, which invest heavily in Africa, but have extremely strict immigration laws. This is something that we should begin to consider. I would add that our goal, in Italy, should be - I tell the friends of the right-wing - to have legislation on the model of the Australian one, a legislation that naturally looks to those who come in with respect for the rules. We want to know who comes, if he has the documents, what is the criminal certificate and that of the pending cargoes, what are the conditions also health of the person who arrives, how he maintains himself, how he lives, what he does in Italy. That is our objective, an absolutely important objective. You should, for this reason, make a very simple comparison of dimensions. I could talk about other countries, but I limit myself to Africa: its surface is 30,370,000 square kilometers, while that of Italy is 300,000 square kilometers, so the African one is 101 times higher than the Italian one, with 1.25 billion people, mostly young people, who want to arrive in Italy, have this aspiration to arrive in Europe, but we also know what unfortunately happens at our border. We must remember this because if we do not contextualize things we do not understand the situation and contextualize it means to understand that if Austria has closed its borders, if France has done so, if so many countries, we are in a situation of extreme difficulty. What to do? Because we also need the solution. We must immediately conclude bilateral agreements with other states for rejections, relocations and above all, because we also have the fear and concern that jihadists or fighters coming back from the Syrian front, having in Italy (we also do it in the interests of Europe for the defence of our borders) legislation on the model of that of the Seventies against terrorism. I want to say more, in conclusion. We need to block immigration. We want to get to the rejections, we want those who arrive to be received decently, but we must also make an appeal to those who do not love Italy, to the many foreigners who hate our language, our religion, our traditions, our security, our freedom. Well, let us say to them that Italy offers a great freedom, another great opportunity, to go back where they came from. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u47	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u49	CANDIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, at this stage, as you know, we are dealing with requests for the improcability or inconstitutionality of the measure. It is inevitable that a political debate will arise on such a controversial measure even at an exquisitely technical stage, and this says how much the Government, with this measure, is also making rags of our Constitution. I would point out, however, that I have heard some really bizarre speeches and I am referring first of all to that of Senator Biti: an abstract intervention, out of reality. When Senator Biti comes to the Chamber and talks about a law that must be dismantled to guarantee human rights, I ask: Senator Biti, why wasn't she with me in Lampedusa, in October and November, when this decree came into force, to see what was happening in the Lampedusa hotspot? [[Applause]] If Matteo Salvini had still been Minister of the Interior, you would have called the Blue Helmets to go to Lampedusa! Your hypocrisy, however, is such that you define how to undo a law that, when it was applied, produced the stop of the landings of illegal immigrants in Italy and instead hide, for convenience, the total inability of the Government to manage the flows of migrants [[Applause]] which leads, as I saw in Lampedusa, to have mattresses put out in the open and people to sleep under the water, or under the sun. Is this for you to manage immigration properly? Is this respect for human rights for you? This is to say that the decree-law that you brought to the Senate and with which you want to disassemble the security decrees is heart attack, from the first to the last letter, of hypocrisy! [[Applause]] I also address Senator De Petris, for whom I have respect, but who makes me a lot especially when he comes to say that we have created conditions for which immigrants, once they have arrived in Italy, have become, by virtue of our laws, security decrees, invisible. Goodness god, but we saw the visibility you meant, when we found out that the Nice bomber had landed in Lampedusa, had gone to Bari, had returned to Alcamo and then went to carry out the attack in Nice! [[Applause]] This is the visibility that you want to give to immigrants who arrive in Italy, with all the cameras in the world to report it, because everyone has seen who arrives in Lampedusa, everyone has seen the seriousness of this country in managing the borders of Europe. Because that's the border of Europe. Is this the visibility you want? You brought them up: good! Congratulations! This is another reason not to proceed with the approval of the decree under consideration, which will dismantle the security decrees. And it's good for those who call it a clandestine decree. Mr President, I am going back to the purely technical aspects. Once again, with the excuse of the pandemic, the Count Government, composed of the Democratic Party and Movimento 5 Stars, thinks that Italians do not know what they are doing, because of course taken from many other problems. So, at nighttime, you approve a decree-law that disassembles security decrees. As, however, Senator Calderoli correctly recalled, there is a Constitution that provides (or, by adapting to the current situation, I should say that it would) for Article 77 that "when, in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, the Government adopts, under its responsibility, provisional measures by force of law, it must present the same day for the conversion to the Chambers which, even if dissolved, are specially convened and meet within five days." Mr President, I repeat, for the record and knowledge of the House and also of some distracted majority senator, that the Council of Ministers approved the decree on 6 October and that it appeared in the Official Journal on 21 October. You waited 16 days to present the decree and the Houses were kept in the dark, because you didn't even have an understanding between you and the only thing you were interested in was keeping the Government standing! Trash paper of the Constitution another time, then. [[Applause]] Moreover, Mr President, I go further, saying that this measure is also inconsistent with what is happening in Europe at the moment. Not only the 1st and 2nd Commission, therefore, but also the 14th should have been invested with this measure, because, at the moment, proposals for amending regulations are being passed in Europe, such as the Dublin III Regulation. These proposals provide, at the same time, to prevent unauthorised travel to applicants within the European Union by establishing, inter alia, that applicants will have to apply in the Member State of their first arrival or regular stay and remain in the Member State designated as competent. That is, exactly the Dublin regulation already in force (both Dublin I and II). It doesn't change anything, you're expanding your shirts right now, you're bringing everyone to Italy with this decree-law, but the European Union is already saying that they will stay and be managed in Italy. Once again you greatly underestimate the costs. As Senator Calderoli has argued before, it has gone from two billion to one billion; we have reached the historical minima and now extended the costs again and in the law provision declared that the coverage does not foresee any further disbursements. It's fake. [[Applause]] You are violating the Constitution and are doing so, moreover, on the statement of expenditure. Mr President, yesterday we heard the hearings in the Commission and, in this case too, on the matter of urgency and urgency, I would point out that since the beginning of October we have arrived at the Commission the other day - and we have now - the deadline for amendments has not yet expired and the Government is still trying to close the door to the opposition in some way, already foreshadowing the imposition of confidence because you do not want the Italians to know what you are changing in this decree and you want to do it quickly. However, Mr President, yesterday, during the hearing in the Commission mentioned, it became clear that there are also deep constitutional flaws. As Professor Gaetano Carlizzi said, one can undoubtedly support the unconstitutionality for violation of Articles 3 and 117 of the Constitution and, even more so, Article 1, paragraph 2, of the European Convention on Human Rights, for the relative part that does not provide for retroactivity and that provides for the abolition of the administrative offence referred to in Article 12, paragraph 6. It is clear that what you have put together does not have the requirements of urgency, it does not even have the requirements of homogeneity and it does not even have the need of extraordinaryness as I have just argued. However, there are also further constitutional inconsistencies in Articles 3 and 117. President, the law of the decree-law cannot be converted into law. What you are doing violates the Constitution, the rights of citizens regularly inserted as foreigners in this country, violates the rights of Italians. We can't proceed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u50	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u51	I imagine you would like to speak on the order of business because your Group has already spoken. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u52	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I am speaking on the issues we are discussing. We are discussing immigration and we are all pleased to learn that in these moments the liberation of Sicilian fishermen, unjustly kidnapped in Libya, has been announced. [[Applause.]] Our Group, but also the others, had called for a more incisive government initiative in the past weeks, which seems to have come late. However, as we understand at the same time that the President of the Council and the Minister for Foreign Affairs would go to Libya, in expressing great joy for this event, we would also like to understand from the Government whether the presence of the President of the Council, therefore of a very high authority, and of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, did not involve political agreements of various kinds, which are also related to the issues of the security of the Mediterranean and migration flows. We would like to understand something about Italy's possible commitments. We call for clarity on this matter, expressing our joy at the liberation of fishermen.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u53	Senator Gasparri, you know very well that the Conference of Leaders exists to present requests for information or communications on specific points.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u54	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u56	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, it seems to me that Senator Gasparri's speech raises a very important issue. I believe that today, as a Parliament, we must all be happy first of all with this fact; and the applause has pointed this out. [[Applause]] I would add, as a senator who supports this Government, that I am sure that the President of the Council will use the sobriety of communication that is necessary, because this cannot in any way be the result of a political party. If this is achieved, as we are convinced, it must be the result of the whole Parliament, the majority and the opposition. [[Applause]] There are no hats to put on this liberation, because this would be intolerable for a sense of the measure that we are all obliged to observe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u57	Of course, this is news on which the House can only express its satisfaction and the emphasis on the fact that this is a result for our country and for the institutional commitment of the whole Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u58	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u60	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I am only speaking to express my satisfaction. After a hundred and eight days the fishermen of Mazara del Vallo have been released and we hope that they will soon be able to return, thanks to the commitment of the President of the Council and the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I believe that this is an event that must see us rejoice, regardless of the political side that each of us represents. So I would like to thank the Government for the action it has taken and I would also like to thank Parliament, which I would like to remind you that during these weeks, on the days of actual detention, it has played a constant role, with speeches at Question Time sessions, with questions and with interventions in all the measures that have been approved in this House. All political forces represented their support for the Government so that it could carry out this action quickly. Thank you to all the Members of this House and a big hug to the family, who have suffered so much. I would also remind you that, with the last measure adopted in Parliament (the ristori decree), we unanimously approved an economic contribution for the family members of fishermen. Thanks again to all Members of Parliament; I believe that today is a great day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u61	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u63	FAZZOLARI (FdI). Mr President, of course, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy we are happy, because it would appear that this detention, which lasted one hundred and six days, will end today. Unfortunately, today the Assembly cannot fail to recall the humiliation that this Government of Inepts has inflicted on our nation. [[Comments]] Let us remember that our fishermen were illegally detained in Libya and that any government would have freed our fishermen within a few days. [[Applause]] Let us remember that a similar situation has happened to Erdoğan's Turkey, which took five days to free its fishermen. [[Applause. Comments]] Our fishermen, held a hundred and eight days, are an insult to our nation. (Senator Fazzolari takes off his mask.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u64	No, Senator Fazzolari. I am forced to remove you from the Chamber if you do so. [[Liveful and prolonged comments.]] Colleagues, this is the classic moment when... [[Comments]] No, no. Senator Fazzolari, you can continue the intervention, of course, but it is absolutely not acceptable to take off the mask, not even in the heat, because it is an act of contempt for the House, as well as a very unwise act towards itself.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u65	All right, ma'am. Today our President-in-Office of the Council and our Minister for Foreign Affairs fly to Benghazi and I hope, for the good of our nation, that no one will then boast that they have brought our fishermen home with a hundred days' delay. [[Vivaci commentati]] To conclude the international figure that Italy has made for this Government of Inepts, let us remember the statements of the Government that has repeatedly said that our intelligence was at work. [[Repented comments]] Intelligence works when there is a kidnapping, not when fishermen are detained in a prison in a known country. If our Secret Service has to find out where the fishermen are, we're not doing well. Now finally it would seem that fishermen come back... [[Happy comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u66	Colleagues, please, this is absolutely not an attitude on the part of everyone to the height of the event that everyone, from his point of view, wants to emphasize. I'd call you back to order in that sense. Senator Fazzolari, please conclude, however. President. - I shall conclude by saying that I am not intimidated by these people. [[Vivaci commentati]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But don't worry. You should address the Presidency and I would ask you to conclude at a time when everyone else has used it. Get it done.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u67	If you talk to me about it, it's complicated. These people here who have not been able in a hundred and eight days to have fishermen delivered by a Libyan state would like to intimidate me; come on, let's be serious for a moment. [[Comments]] With all the delay and shame we hope that the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Premier will not sell this shame back as a victory. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u69	President La Russa, there are other senators who are registered to speak before you. Your Group has already spoken, so you will also wait a moment and then we will evaluate, having already spoken a representative of your Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u70	Mr President, I would like to try to calm down in this House. I realize that Italy is a particular country, a strange country, but today objectively it seems paradoxical to me that a senator of a parliamentary group called the Brothers of Italy behaves in this way on the day when our fishermen return home. [[Applause]] It is doing this, giving to the work of the President-in-Office of the Council, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the whole of the Government and the whole of Parliament, when we should remember that it is not possible that, in cases where our Government finally behaves authoritatively, not only in the Mediterranean but in the international context, it is someone's fault and when there are difficult situations, it is always the Government's fault. [[Applause]] VOICES. Bravo! PETROCELLI (M5S). A more assertive attitude is called for in many parts of Italy, but Italy has a Constitution and this Parliament follows it and respects it as does the Government. The question of our fishermen has shown that the calm and cautious attitude, but in continuous contact with our intelligence brings results for a country that cannot and must not take initiatives of war to bring home its own people. [[Applause]] We have a Constitution and we must respect it, but we are not a country that can afford such attitudes in the national Parliament. Have the decency to respect what has happened today, and I thank the Members who have mentioned it. [[Applause]] Long live Italy, honor to the Government and honor to the whole country for what it has done today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u73	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I take the positive attitude of the last speech. Today's must be a day of celebration for everyone, if so, without political and party distinctions. [[Applause]] I would like to stress a concern which I hope is unfounded, since I have been Minister for the Interior. The operation that is being completed (but in these operations we need extreme caution and confidentiality) has been carried out not on a political side, but by intelligence services that supervise the security of our country. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, my brief experience with the Government teaches me that these operations are announced to fishermen returning to Italy. [[Applause]] I would not - and God forbid - out of respect for families that are not only Italian, but Senegalese, Tunisians and Bengali (because on our ships integration is reality, not chatter), that - and I hope to be denied - an operation that our Security Services have been working on for weeks... [[Brusio]] If you are uninterested, go out and go elsewhere. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u74	Senator Salvini, please, do as you have done so far, speak to the Presidency. I call on all my colleagues, anywhere in this House, to live up to the subject we are dealing with. Please, Senator Salvini.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I would not like the communicative cries of someone who decides what to say or not to say the President of the Council (every reference to Casalino is purely random and wanted) put at risk a delicate operation that someone has been dealing with for weeks. [[Applause]] In fact, some things are done first and then announced. [[Applause]] Let me turn to the last reflection. Given that the operation, if it will succeed (and I hope so for the family members of these workers), will be thanks to our Secret Service (as would have been said once), it is squalid, shameful and disrespectful that even in the newspapers it is read that the object of the verification of the majority reshuffle are the appointments to the top of the Secret Service. [[Applause]] This is unworthy of a developed democracy. Long live our fishermen and those who work in silence without harming the efforts of others! [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u76	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u78	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that the news that has just arrived in this House and throughout the country needs our respect first of all. For these men and their families, as well as for Italy as a whole, they were difficult hours, days, weeks and months of apprehension and concern. I believe that we should simply take note of the excellent work done by our intelligence, consider this as a festive day for the liberation of these men and for the resolution of a very, very important international problem. The merit is of the Government, it is of intelligence, it is of Parliament and of the whole country that has been close to these people and to these families. [[Applause]] Raise your voice and make confusion on a day like this is simply wrong. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u80	On what, President La Russa? I would remind you that a representative of your Group has already spoken, namely Senator Fazzolari, so I cannot give you the floor unless you have to speak on a different issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u81	Trust me, it's a different matter. If you want, I'll send it to you in bubbled paper. The different question I would like to raise relates to the fact that everyone has been able to observe is that when the colleague of the 5 Stars spoke, before Senator Salvini, on our part and of all there was maximum listening. Yet the things he said could easily be challenged, such as the glory that he attributes to this Government, so beautiful and so good. [[Protests]] I am not talking about fishermen, I am talking about the order of business! Let me talk to you for two minutes!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u82	Senator La Russa, I have you speaking, but if yours is a reference to the Presidency, I reject it to the sender because the Presidency has taken care to settle the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u83	What I want to say is that it is unacceptable that while a colleague of my Group was speaking there was an incredible bitch without anyone being called to order. The others were able to speak quietly. It's not mandatory. That is unacceptable. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u84	Thank you, Senator La Russa. The House has been referred to in the same way as its colleague, who, as you know, has even taken off the mask in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u86	Mr Licheri, the same principle applies to you: another member of your Group has already spoken, so if yours is an alert to the Presidency, I have already replied on this point. [[Protests.]] It's okay.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u87	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u89	GARRUTI (M5S). Mr President, I regret once again to represent in this House the disappointment of myself and my side in relation to recurrent dynamics which see opposition groups as prejudging questions of content - let me say this - empty (later I will argue) and meaningless. Let me make it quite clear - and I would like to say this - that this disappointment is not a criticism of the parliamentary debate but of the demeaning of instruments that could be used to raise the level of the debate and not, once again, as is the case today, to enslave them to propagandistic intentions and we have noticed it. I had some doubts about the question of the prejudices. I thought I was in general discussion because the subjects dealt with were not at all the subject of the debate. Millantare l'inconstitutionality of a decree adopted in order to overcome the profiles of constitutionality raised by the President of the Republic is synonymous of lack of seriousness of the parliamentary debate. To declare in black and white the lack of homogeneity of a measure whose contents are similar to those of the decrees previously adopted by those who now sit on the ranks of the opposition certainly does not favor the recovery of the centrality of Parliament in an institutional system in which the body holder of the legislative power asks loudly to recover a specific weight that can influence the contingent political dynamics. A serious parliamentary debate would not question, with preliminary questions, a measure born precisely to overcome the problems of constitutionality produced by the previous decree and enforced by both the guarantee bodies: the President of the Republic and the Constitutional Court. We all remember what the Head of State pointed out in the promulgation of the decree-law security, with the letter of 8 August 2019, which recalled the general principle of proportionality between sanctions and behaviour, defined necessary in the judgment n. 112 of 2019 of the Constitutional Court, and the necessary compliance with international law, starting from the Montego Bay Convention, so mentioned in the preliminary rulings submitted. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court, in judgment No 186 of 2020, tells us that, in spite of the stated objective of regulatory intervention to increase the level of public security, the rule under consideration, preventing the registration of asylum seekers, ends with limiting the control capacity and the monitoring of the public authority on the population actually resident on the territory. It is therefore necessary to ensure the timely restoration of respect for the right of reception and to restore the existing constitutional and international principles of law in this area, remedying all functional aspects, which cause application difficulties, at an already complicated time, which only create further chaos, making it difficult to manage the new flows. Moreover, the decree under consideration has already been approved by the other branch of Parliament, in which the constitutional profiles, including the division of competences between the State and the Regions, as well as the necessity, urgency and consistency of content, have already been carefully examined. It is therefore inferred that there are no problems of constitutional legitimacy and that, as I said before, we tend to overcome them. On the contrary, our Constitution has the dignity of the person at its centre and, as far as fundamental rights are concerned, it places the citizen and the foreigner on the same level, strengthening the concept of Article 10. We note that it is not urgent for anyone in this House to honour the Constitution. My invitation, ladies and gentlemen, is to return to providing concrete contributions and solid and improving contents of the work of the majority of this country, which has always been open to confrontation and constructive dialogue with oppositions, for the purposes of the transposition of profitable ideas and for the good of all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u90	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred for a preliminary ruling, with several reasons, by Senator Bernini and other senators (QP1), Senator Ciriani and other senators (QP2) and Senator Salvini and other senators (QP3), referring to the bill n. 2040. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u91	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u93	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I have personally seen Senator Vitali vote for two. [[Protests.]] I understand that Senator Papatheu is underneath, but a senator cannot be delegated by another senator. Therefore, please have all the cards of the senators not present before the vote taken, for a very simple fact: for the purposes of the diary, the senators who enter only the card are not reduced that amount which should be reduced instead. In this way, we avoid any kind of confusion that may arise in relation to a senator who votes for two, which cannot be done.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u94	Senator Santangelo, I understand. In any case, we have plenty of attendance and alignment, so if there are votes for others it is also reported by the secretaries and the Presidency intervenes immediately. However, I would like to thank all my colleagues for their cooperation on the regularity of the vote. [[Comments]] Senator, please leave it to the Presidency to direct the work; at the moment it succeeds.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u95	The next item is the debate on draft law No 2040, which has already been approved by the House of Deputies. The President of the First Permanent Commission, Senator Parrini, may speak to report on the work of the Commissions meeting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u96	Mr President, I would ask you for an hour to bring the Commissions together. We have done our work yesterday until late in the evening, we have finally reached an agreement on the timing and, in any case, at 12.30 p.m. the work in the Commission will end and we will be able to continue the examination of the measure in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u99	OSTELLARI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to point out that, as Mr Parrini has already said, we are called into the committees meeting to assess the timing of the work. After that, we'll be back here in an hour and we'll check the terms of the Commissions. That is what has emerged. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u100	It seems to me that the state of the work of the Commissions has been given full weight. Among other things, there is also a coincidence about the need for the House's sanitization times, so we can reconvene this House in one hour, at 12.50.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u103	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, forgive me, but on logistical matters, since the Commissions are meeting in the Minerva Square - so we have to go there and then come back here - you reconvene the sitting at 1 p.m. to give us at least the opportunity to physically reach the places. In addition, a little more time to sanitize the House, given the resistance that was there, I think it is good.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u104	Your request is granted. I therefore suspend the sitting. (The sitting was suspended at 11.50 a.m. and resumed at 1.07 p.m.) Please take your seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u105	I'm asking you to talk about the order of business.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u107	I do not ask you what you are talking about in the order of business because it is good practice to listen and not to ask what you want to talk about first. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, thank you for your attention and sensitivity. We simply wanted to ask whether it was possible to suspend for an hour because the Commission finished its work five minutes ago and the rapporteur was given a mandate and there are, as is customary practice, minority rapporteurs too, so that they can prepare the report to be presented to the House. It is 13.10 p.m.; the request is that at 14.10 p.m. we can start again with the reports.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u108	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u110	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, with regard to the request of the President of the League Group and in the spirit of cooperation that will lead to the adoption of the measure today, we accept the request for suspension.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u111	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u112	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u113	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, we too believe that an hour is an appropriate time frame to proceed as smoothly as possible. It's also good for Movimento 5 Stars.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u114	However, I would ask the rapporteurs, before we have the suspension, if indeed one hour is enough, not to open and close the sitting again. [[Comments.]] It's up to me, the presidency, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u115	As for your kind request, as a minority rapporteur, I can tell you that, if you give us more time, we can work better.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u116	It is not about giving more time: I ask you how much time you actually need, not to keep the senators on who lives.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u119	Mr Marcucci (PD). President Romeo asked us to begin work at 2 p.m. We accept your request. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. But that's your opinion. Mr Marcucci (PD). An hour from now until 2:10.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u120	If that is enough for the rapporteurs, we could resume work at 2.15 p.m. If you think you can't, however, tell us in time. I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 13.12 a.m. and resumed at 14.18 p.m.) Let's resume our work. The speakers, Senators Valente and Evangelista, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Valente.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u121	Mr President, today's vote is the final act of a measure that has cost us some effort. It is certainly not an easy debate, but today we have come to the end and it is a success which, I would like to say in the preamble, I do not think should be ascribed to a party alone; and it is not the revenge, as well as someone who insists on saying, of one side on another. Today's vote is an achievement, also for the defence of fundamental rights and the idea of human dignity that is part of our country's culture, a secular and Catholic culture. It is also a success for all that part of the country that looks, with confidence and hope, at a policy that wants to govern the biggest and most difficult problems of the present, without ever using them for partisan purposes or to assert strength or consent. Today, with this measure, we try to close an open page two years ago on the wave of a flagrant emergency and above all, in my opinion and in our opinion, on the erroneous equation immigration equals insecurity. A page that, however, in these two years has proved to be substantially ineffective. With this measure, which, of course, yes, I want to say it clearly, demands a scale of values and a vision of different and clearly alternative topics, it opens a different page, inspired by values of solidarity that a rule of law and democracy, like ours, should always have engraved in its DNA. This decree is a first step and the first steps are not always easy and simple. The discussion was very long in the House and even here, although the examination could appear a simple formality, so it was not. Having said that, it is clear that the measure certainly represents a qualifying point for the action of the Government. The reason today is exactly the same as in 2019, when this government group was born on the idea that the so-called Salvini security decrees should be changed, precisely because in fact they were achieving exactly the objective contrary to what they were supposed to be the stated objectives instead; not the control of flows, but simply more insecurity and more illegality for citizens and migrants. As we all know and as has also been mentioned, it weighed, weighs and will always weigh on us the message sent by the President of the Republic, at the time of the promulgation, to the Presidents of the Chambers and to the President of the Council who had lit a lighthouse above all on the compatibility of the limitations of the prohibition of entry for the ships of the NGOs with the international treaties. This morning, the Constitutional Court's ruling, which had declared the rule that asylum seekers should not be registered, was also recalled. A rule which, as a majority, we also denounced in this House for being irrational because it is counterproductive in the control of the territory. In short, there were these important elements, but there was and there is also, above all, the fact that those two decrees in fact produced: an army of people in the flesh and bones marginalized, thrown out of the integration paths, powerless and skilfully thrown into dangerous shadow areas, forced to live in limbo and precariousness. In short, those decrees, beyond the stated intentions, have led our country out of the shared rules of international law, removing it from the position that Italy had also supported in Europe in previous years for a more courageous commitment to the management of such a complex phenomenon and instead bringing it dramatically closer to countries, who claimed contempt for the basic rules of our democracy. In this context, let me also, as rapporteur, make a simple remark: I wonder how we do it in this House, but also in the country, to be, on the one hand, the most convinced supporters of the defence of our borders and, then, in Europe, to be friends of solidarity with those countries, such as those of Visegrád, which are and remain increasingly opposed to a modification of the Dublin Regulation, which would be the only instrument to guarantee equal treatment for Italy compared to other countries. During this terrible year, Europe has proved to be there when it is needed. I believe that it is to be expected that it will soon also prove this on the migration dossier. This could, of course, only be asked by those who do not pursue the complete closure of national borders, by those who accept the effort to govern the migration process and do not in vain try to build paper walls. I say that today with this provision we choose to put an end to the time of simplifications. It is time to leave behind banality as defenders of the borders, on the one hand, and responsible for the invasion, on the other. It is a rhetoric that has had disastrous effects on the widespread perception of migration: it is a global and enormous phenomenon of our time that affects all countries. I'm not saying that. It is the numbers - if only one had the patience and humility to read them - that say that the development of the flows in the Mediterranean is unfortunately conditioned by factors that only a small part have to do with national legislation. I think, then, that on a subject of this magnitude, the obligation for all of us is to avoid banality. I believe, however, that there is also an obligation of ours to claim the responsibility of politics to defend a clear hierarchy of values. In this hierarchy I think that undoubtedly the first place goes to the right to life, to the obligation to respond to the cry for help especially of those who come and those who are dispersed at sea, of those who flee from situations of unacceptable difficulties, who put their lives at risk. That is why the attitude of those who transform non-governmental organizations, who provide rescue activities at sea, in those responsible for tragedies, is unacceptable, as if NGOs were the protagonists in the money of I do not know which lender. It is not acceptable because it is a false fact, as is also demonstrated by the judicial proceedings initiated and ended without condemnation. Therefore, in my view, there is no question of the discontinuity of this decree with respect to the previous security decrees. With this measure, Italy is simply brought back into the balance of constitutional law and dictation. This is done by restoring the right to register for asylum seekers and thus eliminating those security risks arising from the deprivation of any identity, any right and any duty. This is done by changing the procedure for the accelerated priority examination of applications for recognition of international protection, which means in fact suffering a significant contraction in the right of defence. I would also add that having excluded victims of trafficking from this accelerated procedure means giving minimum protection to women who are already in a very desperate condition. And then we repair to the rift consumed on the level of the reception, providing that a whole series of residence permits, including those for serious pathologies, allow then to work. The ban on return is extended, with specific attention to the most vulnerable, including on the basis of sexual orientation. A special permit is also provided for the person for whom the expulsion ban is valid and without international protection; it is the way to prevent a foreigner without coded forms of protection from remaining in a grey area without a legitimate residence permit. It reduces the time for obtaining citizenship and eliminates the current term of the decree flows. The obligation for prefects to hear mayors is included before opening new reception centres and continues in the action of protection and integration of unaccompanied foreign minors. I mean that they are all rules justified by the idea, which seems to me quite reasonable, that it is better to know rather than close your eyes, it is better to recognize a position rather than throw in a shadowy area, it is better to integrate rather than exclude and marginalize. This is the most visible difference from the recent past. Instead of trying unnecessarily to close our country in the face of an epochal phenomenon, we try with this measure to put it back in the best conditions to manage a complex phenomenon, through a system of widespread reception and social inclusion, avoiding concentrations of people and interests, instead focusing on the distribution on the territory of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of protection. Instead of making people arriving invisible, we must promote training and integration and encourage them to participate in them with commitment. I said, of course, that this is only a first step; others we will have to take. As I said at the beginning, this is not the success of a part, although a part obviously led with more coherence, determination and conviction this battle. Today this measure affirms the idea of a country that does not believe that distinguishing the last from the last, as I have heard in the debate in recent days in the Commission, we protect some better, that it is not putting last against others that a country system is put in security or simply the certainties of those who are luckier or guaranteed. Today, with this measure, in my opinion, it is not only values of humanity, solidarity, respect and dignity for all, but it is also the idea that only through safeguards, opportunities and sacred rights recognized to all, only through an effective reduction of social disparities, inequalities and marginalities and therefore only through integration, participation and recognition to all of equal dignity are stronger, more competitive, healthier systems and communities built, but above all safer communities for all. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u122	I call the rapporteur, Senator Evangelista.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u123	There are two rapporteurs, one from the 1st Commission and one from the 2nd Commission, although it would be right, the Commission for the Commission, to have the rapporteur and the minority rapporteur speak. However, as you prefer this order, let us give the word to Senator Evangelista.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u124	Mr President, there would have been no problem for me, of course. With regard to the part relating to the Justice Commission, the text of the law that we are called upon to approve today, in Article 6, allows the application of the institution of arrest in deferred flagency also with regard to the crimes committed on the occasion or due to the detention in one of the detention centres for repatriation or first aid and reception facilities. The article provides that, for the same crimes referred to in paragraph 7-a, we always proceed with direct judgment, unless special investigations are necessary. Article 7, acting on Article 131- bis of the Criminal Code, limits the scope of the foreclosure to the application of the cause of non-perpetuality for the particular tenuity of the fact in the cases of resistance, violence, threat and outrage to the public official. The purpose of the amendment is to limit foreclosure of offences committed no longer against a public official, but against an officer or public security officer or a police officer or judicial officer in the performance of his duties. At the same time, the provision always precludes the application of the tenuity of the fact to the suppositions of contempt as a magistrate at the hearing. Article 8 instead intervenes on Article 391- bis of the penal code in order to tighten the sanctioning regime for anyone who facilitates in communication with the outside the prisoner subject to the restrictions referred to in Article 41- bis of the Law on the penitentiary order. The basic penalty becomes imprisonment from two to six years in place of imprisonment from one to four. The penalty for the aggravated case becomes imprisonment from three to seven years instead of imprisonment from two to five years. The applicability of the same penalties shall also be extended to the prisoner who, subject to the restrictions laid down in Article 41-a, communicates with others in breach of the requirements imposed. Article 9 inserts in the penal code the new Article 391-b to punish with imprisonment from one to four years anyone who makes available to a prisoner a telephone device. The case also applies to the prisoner using the telephone and specific aggravating factors are provided for when the offence is committed by a public official, a person in charge of a public service and also by a lawyer. Article 10 amends Article 588 of the Criminal Code, which punishes the offence of brawl, invoking the penalties for both the basic case, consisting of participation in a fight and the aggravated one, which applies when, as a result of the fight, some people are killed or reported serious injuries; it is the so-called Willy norm, in memory of the poor Willy Monteiro Duarte of Colleferro, killed by fists and kicks in a fight. Article 11, amending Articles 13 and 13-a of Decree-Law No 14 of 2017, extends the scope of the measures of the prohibition of access to public spaces or public entertainment venues (the so-called Daspo) that may be arranged by the quaestor or public security authority against those who have been denounced for specific offences and tightens the sanctions in case of violation of those prohibitions. Article 12 implements actions to combat drug trafficking, committed through the use of the Internet network, providing for providers the obligation to introduce filtering tools for websites reported as a means for the commission of these offences and consequently administrative sanctions for breach of obligations. Finally, Article 13 deals with the rules of the National Guarantor for persons deprived of personal freedom, giving him functions in the field of the prevention of torture. In addition, the Guarantor is allowed to delegate the exercise of certain limited functions to territorial guarantors, when special circumstances require, for a maximum duration of six months. Finally, the mandate of the current Guarantor is extended by two years. I conclude, President, by reminding everyone that saving human lives is our legal, but also moral duty, and that the reception and integration of migrants in our country is an action that ennobles the Italian people, known for its altruistic and supportive spirit. The interests and rights of citizens are always protected, as this Government has demonstrated in this year of health emergency, at three hundred and sixty degrees, with all the numerous decrees issued to date. The cultural and civil level of a people is also measured by the level of cultural integration it offers. I thank the House. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u125	Minority rapporteurs, Senators Augussori and Pillon, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u126	I therefore call the minority rapporteur, Senator Augussori.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u127	Mr President, the measure we are called upon to convert does not deserve the urgency with which this debate is being discussed. Our Constitution provides, in article 77, paragraph 2, that the Government may adopt, in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, legislative measures and the Constitutional Court has repeatedly reaffirmed the illegality of the decree-law that in its content does not respect the criterion of homogeneity, constraint and essential prerequisite for the exercise of the decree of urgency. The decree-law in question does not meet any of the three conditions. The measure is not urgent, as demonstrated also by the time between its approval and publication. The only urgency it seems to respond to is, in fact, that of repealing the previous security decrees. There are other urgent needs for our country, which is experiencing a particularly difficult moment, burdened by the health emergency and the economic crisis linked to the spread of the Covid-19, and which would need serious and concrete interventions in support of citizens and the many businesses that are suffering incredibly. Citizens do not need provisions for reopening ports and borders; they do not need a clandestine decree. The decree-law under examination is therefore completely foreign to the reality and to the real needs of the country and even disrespectful to the Italian citizens. Secondly, the decree-law is not necessary, also in view of the comments of the President of the Republic contained in the letter sent to the Presidents of the Senate of the Republic and of the Chamber of Deputies and to the President of the Council of Ministers on the occasion of the promulgation of the law of conversion. In that letter, the findings on immigration concerned only the extent of the pecuniary administrative penalty in the event of a breach of the prohibition of entry into territorial waters. The very necessary actions in the area of immigration should have been those aimed at reducing the number of illegal immigrants who are being sent to our country. Only this could be a clear and unequivocal signal of Italy's position to say no to trafficking in human beings and to regain credibility in the eyes of Europe, acting with controlled migration policies aimed at preventing people arriving illegally on our territory from feeding the phenomenon of crime or even terrorism, as the recent events in Nice just over a month ago have shown us. Finally, the decree-law is not homogeneous, as clearly demonstrated by its title, that it has common provisions on immigration and international and complementary protection, amendments to articles of the penal code, measures on the prohibition of access to public establishments and public detention premises, of contrast to the distorted use of the web and of the discipline of the National Guarantor of the rights of persons deprived of personal freedom. There's no need to add anything else. [[Applause]] The previous government had finally managed to contain illegal migration flows and that is a certain fact. What is often underestimated - or, better, exploited - is the consequence of this: reducing the number of people who arrive illegally in our country means reducing the number of people who regularly die trying to face a journey to the limits of human endurance. [[Applause]] A serious political plan on immigration cannot be based on an indiscriminate reception, because in this way it is not possible to guarantee the right support for those migrants who would have the right to be welcomed because they are persecuted or escaped from civil wars. The security decrees that this measure overturned tended to a targeted reception and to start a process of integration that includes rights, but also duties for those who arrive in our country and especially for those who have the right to be welcomed. The former Minister of the Interior fought for humanitarian corridors to be organised and for NGOs not to manage them because it is not their job. It must be the State that takes charge of it and this presupposes serious actions, targeted and orderly and an immigration governed by clear rules also for those who arrive in our country. The measures we are reading in this measure seem to be driven by a fake desire to integrate that is far from being able to define itself as welcome. Entering into the substance of the provision, Article 1 amended the discipline of the decree flows, introduced in 1998 by the so-called Turkish-Napolitano law, with the abolition of the deadline for the three-year programming by the Government on the basis of the needs of the labour market and the limit of the quotas established in the decree issued in the previous year. The first security decree had replaced the residence permit for humanitarian reasons (a uniform in the European panorama that was suitable, in the absence of a timely standardization, for this arbitrary use) with special residence permits, punctually regulated (health conditions of exceptional gravity, contingent situations of disasters in the countries of origin, acts of particular civil value). The measure in question extends the cases in which a residence permit for disasters can be granted - one of the types introduced by the first security decree replacing humanitarian protection - from quotas and exceptional to only serious and eliminates the maximum period of six months for renewal, which may therefore have no limits. A debate could be opened on this point. The permits for disasters, already provided for in the Salvini decree, were linked to exceptional cases and exceptional and contingent disasters, such as the Haiti earthquake or the tsunami in Indonesia. In the text we are examining, it has been chosen to remove the reference to "gravie" and "quotae" and thus leave the word "gravie calamità" to be deleted. It remains therefore to be determined what are the serious disasters to which it is alluded, because it could probably also be drought, excessive heat or other environmental conditions characteristic of some countries. In this way we can have a new example of migrants: climate migrants. This concept needs to be carefully considered. 80% of sub-Saharan Africa has drought problems, but the migration of 2.5 billion people living in poor areas of our planet to our coasts does not seem feasible, nor does it seem feasible to have a subsequent regularization. Article 1 also allows work to be carried out in the case of a residence permit for medical treatment, in an unreasonable manner, given the specific nature of that residence permit and the fact that the holder should be in serious health conditions. It is also expected to convert automatically into a residence permit for reasons of work of a series of previously excluded permits (special protection, calamity, elective residence, acquisition of citizenship, sports activities, artistic work, religious reasons, minor assistance), without any limit and in fact eradicating all the programming of migratory flows. That is an important point. The work permit is given to those who have permission for elective residence, today granted to those who have an Italian pension, who demonstrate that they are self-sufficient and do not need to work. It seems paradoxical, but with this measure we want to grant a work permit to someone who has to prove that he does not need to work. We've come to the absurd. [[Applause]] The same applies to the permit for religious reasons which, by definition, is issued for short stays. This can also be turned into a work permit. Paragraph 1 re-introduces the possibility of issuing a residence permit at the age of majority, even without the opinion of the Minister of Labour - already repealed by the first security decree - which will then take place automatically and without any control. In addition, the time limit has been abolished, as well as the quotas established for the decree annual flows, while a further extension of the grounds for non-refoulement and expulsion has been arranged to include sexual orientation and gender identity. In order to increase the migratory phenomenon in our country and to facilitate non-governmental organizations, the measure intervenes by eliminating from the single text on immigration the faculty of the Ministry of the Interior to be able to limit or prohibit the transit of ships to territorial sea, in addition to the paragraphs relative to fine, seizure and confiscation of the ships in case of violation of the prohibition of entry, as provided for with the decree security bis. In so doing, non-governmental organizations are no longer subject to fines, confiscation and seizure of ships. In practice, the Government wants to give legitimacy to the ferrying work in the Mediterranean carried out regularly by NGOs. Paragraph 2 inserts in the code of navigation the possibility to limit and prohibit only the stopover and the transit in territorial sea - is therefore eliminated the hypothesis to prohibit the entry from the Ministry of the inside - excluding it for the military ship or for ships in governmental service non commercial - as provided by the decree security- bis - and for the hypothesis of rescue at sea. The fine is also remodulated in case of non-compliance with the ban from 10,000 to 50,000 euros, instead of from 150,000 to one million euros, as provided by the decree security bis: I would say a nice gift to Carola Rackete and its members. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In the decree Salvini therefore prohibited the entry and the rest within the territorial waters. In this measure, the word "entry" is no longer present, so only parking in territorial waters or transit is prohibited, while entry is permitted. It is therefore clear that the Minister for the Interior, who still remains a public security authority, can no longer prohibit entry into territorial waters. Article 2 deals with procedures for the recognition of international protection. Paragraph 1 reformulates the hypotheses of priority examination of asylum applications, i.e. with precedence, giving competence to the chairman of the committee, together with the identification of cases of accelerated procedure. Following the news, for cases of applicants who have been treated in CPRs or hotspots, as asylum seekers who cannot be identified, and applicants from safe countries of origin, the possibility of carrying out a priority examination of the application is eliminated. It is also laid down that, in the event of a repeated application, when a removal order is implemented, the eligibility assessment should be left to the chairman of the committee, rather than to operate automatically, i.e. it should be considered inadmissible from the time of its submission as an instrument to avoid repatriation. The rule extends the duration of the special residence permit, namely humanitarian protection, from one year to two years, exactly as it was before the first security decree. In this respect, before the reform of this security decree, about 40,000 humanitarian protections recognized by the territorial commission, from 2015 to 2018, little more than 3,200 were the conversions to work permit and about 250 family reunifications. The majority of immigrants have remained inoperous in Italy, without any concrete prospects of stabilisation and social inclusion, with the strong risk of falling into paths of illegality. [[Applause]] Mr President, I shall begin with the conclusion. The holders of international protection clearly founded, within a few days they saw the process of integration started, because the prefectic commissions authorized the permission to stay in our country. For all others, who were not entitled to remain, such as all economic migrants (currently one third of the landings are Tunisian nationals), a preliminary examination and mandatory stay in the CPR was planned until expulsion. The new text eliminates the formula "palesely founded" and opens up to all possible interpretations of the formula "palesely founded." Such a random rule seems deliberately devoid of substance, as well as the formula used to allow those who, returning to their country, would see a violation of the right to respect for their private and family life: practically everything and nothing.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u128	Senator Augussori, you've gone far beyond your time, so please come to the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u129	Mr Agussori, minority rapporteur. I shall conclude, Mr President. It was also preferred to remove the explicit reference to torture and inhuman or degrading treatment, in order to leave room for the subjective judgment of those who are making the decision. In conclusion, humanitarian protection, eliminated by the Salvini decrees, was a uniform in Europe, which did not exist and does not exist in any other European country. Only in Germany is there a similar institution, but for specific cases, and Minister Salvini had worked in the same direction, for specific cases. Mr President, I reserve the right to include my remarks in any reply. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u130	Senator Augussori, I didn't interrupt you to let you conclude your reasoning.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u131	I call the minority rapporteur, Senator Pillon.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u132	Mr President, in the face of this insecurity decree, the first question I put to the majority, who so pervicaciously wanted to approve it, is the following: what kind of objective do you set yourself, that is, what model do you have before your eyes and what do you want to do with our country for the next fifty years? That is the question, because with such a decree-law it is clear that your goal is to create the most absolute chaos. We are faced with a systematic repeal of any control over who comes in or who comes out of our country. All this is based on the rhetoric of the confusion between relief and kindergarten. I say this to my colleagues, who are a little distracted: one thing is the obligation to help those who are at sea and risk their lives and we are all in complete agreement. Another thing is to think that, since someone has been rescued, they automatically have the right to asylum in our country. It would be as if I, in the car, find someone who had an accident, collect it, take it to the hospital, take care of it and then that person comes to live in my bed. That's not how it works; there's no automation. If a person has been rescued, he has the right to help and not automatically to kindergarten and stay in our country for the rest of his life; [[Applause]] because, Mr President, these people are certainly not at sea on a case-by-case basis, but there is a well-functioning and very efficient system for bringing people to Europe through Italy. A system that is not in the hands of governments, transparent organizations, NGOs with a noble profile; it is in the hands of human traffickers. [[Applause.]] Let us start to tell ourselves these things, because otherwise we lose sight of the general picture. However, you have not yet understood what your plan is, what your project is, what model you are inspired by. Colleagues, I hear about the German model, the French model, the Spanish model, the English model: all countries that regulate - indeed! - the entrances into their borders. Why, then, should Italy have a model - we are not given to understand which - that passes through total non-controlling of borders? What I am saying is written - black on white - in the decree-law that you are preparing to convert. I refer to Article 1.1, in which it is clearly stated that refusal, expulsion or extradition to a State are not allowed, if there are reasonable grounds for believing - and there is nothing in it - that there are risks of being subjected to torture (and we all agree), inhuman treatment (and we all agree), for those who come from a country where human rights are violated (and that's fine), and then they open up monstrous faults in reasoning. The expulsion of any person who sees his or her privacy violated shall be prohibited. Can you explain what that means? If a person, in his home, in his country, has a law that forbids him to keep the dog in the garden, is considered non-respect of private life and therefore has the right to stay in Italy? Still, there is a prohibition to expel anyone who is not in perfect psychophysical health. This means that if a subject finds a psychologist who diagnoses a simple depression, he automatically has the right to perpetual asylum in Italy. Or even, who has ongoing trials in our country: practically anyone has the right to stay in Italy. [[Applause]] With this decree-law do even more; immediately switch to the activation of all this, which is why the asylum seeker has the right to the identity card, to all the measures of Italian welfare, to all the citizens. Everything that was once reserved for certain delicate and particular situations, everything that was once connected to asylum for serious reasons today is essentially free: anyone who comes can stay. Too bad, however, that Italy is like a big family, like a big house; I can accommodate five, ten people in my house; if they are a bit 'close, I can accommodate even 15 for a while, if they sleep in layers, with sleeping bag under the table; but I can not accommodate everyone forever. That's the point: we can't accommodate everyone forever. We have a duty - and no one is saying that this duty should not be respected - that is to help, but I come back to say: have you become aware of how the course to Italy works? Have you studied how the phenomenon works? Colleagues, I've documented a little, I've bothered to go see how it works and unfortunately I've discovered a disarming monstrosity. These people are recruited in the villages and they are told that there is a bright future in Italy; normally they are the richest guys in their village, the most beautiful girls they are told: come to Italy, which is wonderful, while giving 2,000 or 3,000 euros to those who organize the trip. These boys are torn from their villages, they are taken to the centers of Libya, they are usually raped and treated by dogs; then, after they have remained there for months, they finally take them to embark on unhealthy bathrooms and many of those pagan with life sinking in the Mediterranean [[Applause]] Then they get here, where the girls find the sidewalk and the kids sell drugs. Is this the future you have in mind for our country? Is this the kind of welcome you have in mind? Well, we are not in this model! We will not submit to this model, out of respect for those populations. The other day I was talking to a dear bishop friend of a South Sudan city, who told me something like this: I beg you on your knees, don't take the young people anymore, you're killing Africa [[Applause]] You're deceiving them, you're tearing them out of their villages with who knows what mirages, with who knows what promises you're giving them to the underworld, you're putting their lives at risk and all for what? What model do you have in mind? Tell us what you want to integrate. You want integration? We agree. We sit at a table and say how many people we can integrate. Is there a few odds? That's 30,000. Are there few? Maybe there's room for 35,000? Maybe there's room for 40,000? We can reason. If you think there is room and if you prove there is a way to integrate more than 40,000 people a year, prove it with facts, but you cannot allow illegal immigration in this way, because that means killing young people, killing Africa that you say you want to protect [[Applause]] , kill the hope of the children of those villages, who could have done the greatness of their continent, their cities, their villages and come here to prostitute themselves or drug dealing, perhaps to enrich some red co-op [[Comments.]] Please! [[Call the president back.]] In Italy you enter with the plane, with the ship, with the train, with the car and with the visa. Everything else is in the hands of the Mafia, the Camorra, the illegal immigration; it is in the hands of the non-governmental organizations rotten! You're turning into this! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Come on, partner, let's finish your speech. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party Mr President, I will listen carefully to the general debate and expect a proposal from the majority. It is not enough, in fact, to bring them to Italy in these barbaric ways; we must offer them a serious proposal. I reserve the right to see whether this proposal will come or not. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u133	. (The Minister for Relations with Parliament) [[points out that he wants to intervene.]] The general discussion is beginning. The government can always ask to intervene; this knows that it is irrational; of course it can intervene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of trust in approval, without amendments or additional articles...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u135	Mr. Minister, stop, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u136	Mr D'INCA, Minister for Relations with Parliament. ...of the sole article of bill No 2040, of conversion of decree-law No 130,... [[Happy protests. Some senators occupy government benches.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u137	The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 3.16 p.m.) I call the Conference of Presidents of the parliamentary groups. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 15.17 p.m. and resumed at 16.18 p.m.) Colleagues, since the Conference of Leaders was suspended for an institutional commitment of mine, it was decided that the House should be sanitized. I would ask you, please, to leave the Chamber free so that we can proceed with sanitisation. I ask this courtesy, having decided to proceed in this way at the Conference of Leaders. Thank you all. Excuse us, but today is not an easy day. I am suspending the sitting again. (The sitting was suspended at 16.18 p.m. and resumed at 7.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u138	The Conference of Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-law on urgent provisions on immigration, international and complementary protection, amendments to Articles 131-a, 391-a, 391-b and 588 of the penal code, as well as measures concerning the prohibition of access to public establishments and public detention premises, of contrast to the distorted use of the web and the discipline of the National Guarantor of the rights of persons deprived of personal freedom, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. For the discussion on confidence, four hours and forty minutes were allocated on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. The debate will take place in the course of today's sitting for an hour and forty minutes, and tomorrow's sitting, starting at 9.30 a.m., for three hours. [[Applause]] At 1.30 p.m. the explanations of vote will take place on live television and will follow the call. [[Applause]] This breakdown takes account of the House's prescribed sanitization times. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u139	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u141	ZULIANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking on a personal matter. While you were absent, there have been events in this House, which have been explained to you. As usual, I was in my place, underneath the hemicycle. I ran out. From the very top of his experience as a Member of Parliament, he knows that the occupation of government benches lies in the games of the House's activity. I came running to his left and, at the left of the government benches, I received a very strong elbow at the heart. [[Comments]] I didn't react, thankfully. God wanted me not to react violently to violence. I moved to the right side of the government benches and headed, like my other colleagues, to the government benches. I was amazed, also because I had great difficulty breathing. If this had happened to a senator with heart disease problems, things could have been worse. My colleagues in the political group, militants loaned to Parliament, are accustomed to violent activities sometimes taking place in the gazebos in our sections of the League. I think, however, that in this Parliament, in the face of an activity which has already taken place - other members of the government have already done so - no violence should be received. And that is my wish. I don't usually react if a person isn't able to understand and want. In my career as mayor I happened not to react to violence, along with a carabiniere, when I stopped a drunken driver because drunk driving, to prevent endangering his and the safety of others, or in front of a psychiatric patient. I didn't think, though, that inside the Senate you could be attacked by a communist. I remind Minister D'Incà and his bald squires that Veneto does not forget. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u142	On what happened in this House - I was not present - photographic documentation and a video will bring back and show us what happened. In the face of a complaint of this kind, we will make the necessary investigations.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u143	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u144	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u145	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr. President, you anticipated me. I do not want to argue, nor do I want to prolong this debate excessively. I would first like to express my solidarity with Senator De Petris and Minister D'Incà. [[Applause]] , and then ask to look at the many available footage and examine them in the Presidency Council to see whether action should be taken against those who have been wrong. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u146	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u147	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several times in this House reference has been made to the fundamental principles governing the decree-laws. The absence of the requirements of necessity and urgency has been underlined on several fronts. Allow me to make a few further brief comments. The Constitutional Court has repeatedly stated that the prerequisites of necessity and urgency must also be assisted by the requirements of reasonableness and non-arbitrariness. Well, that something does not go into the decree-law in question is already understood only by reading the preamble of the provision, where it recalls that the decree is necessary to allow respect for the constitutional and international principles in this matter. But if we read the second of the decrees Salvini, we discover that already in the very first articles it is specified to you that the decree applies except the respect of international obligations. In fact, in this House I have listened several times to statements that are part of a false narrative, built by a certain political part (from the left, in particular) to the detriment of the League, a narration according to which even the two decrees that manifest themselves in the background turn the relief of migrants into crime. You all know very well that this statement is false, because you have never really denied help to those who need it. [[Applause]] Not one person was left at sea. The question of entry into our country is quite different. The decree-law under consideration, in fact, closes the circle of a false narrative that creates not an opponent - as should be normal in politics - but an enemy, that you discredit with a false narrative. This decree-law serves to close the circle for your electorate against this false narrative. You are actually pursuing a political objective linked to the satisfaction of your electorate at the expense of the interests of the country: by eliminating administrative sanctions, you make the management of migratory flows less efficient. We must not forget that the issue, which has been reduced to the bone, concerns the management of economic migrants. No one has ever intended to prevent the salvation of those fleeing war, of those fleeing torture or persecution. Here the problem concerns only economic migrants and I must remind you that it concerns those migrants who try to enter our country illegally. This is not a question of reception as such: the defence of legality is in question. What seems incredible to me is that it fails to pass the principle that the reception, the rescue and the help are actions that must nevertheless register in compliance with the legality, the law. This is exactly what the previous decrees were for. Now we are also weaker towards Europe. It is understandable that the Democratic Party is attempting this operation. I am much more surprised at the position of the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars, who just two years ago in this House defended these decrees, indeed they said that they were necessary to remedy the failure of the previous management. [[Applause]] Evidently, they now feel that failure should be resumed. The bitter truth is that there are those in life who, in order to remain faithful to themselves, leave a party and there are those who, in order to remain faithful to a party, leave themselves. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u148	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I believe that today, perhaps, a little confusion is also being made here. The decree-law under consideration stems from an observation by the Head of State and a note by the Constitutional Court and is based on these two points. Then, it also tries to add some rules to ensure even better the safety of Italians and the respect of the refugees who come to our land. The history of human evolution is all a history of migration. This phenomenon does not stop with a slogan or with rules that, in the light of the facts, have been found to be unfunctional and not even safe for everyone. Over the centuries, the position and geographical conformation of our peninsula, with its islands, even the smallest ones, have made a bridge in the Mediterranean between three continents: Europe, Africa and the Asiatic Middle East; land where peoples, cultures and cults have met and sometimes clashed; a great Zibaldone, I dare say, and an extraordinary millenary mix, which has given impetus, over the centuries, to customs, languages and traditions still different today. There is a culture, however, and there are customs that unite us and that we express in various ways, even the many that simulate a free and sliced idiosyncrasia; culture and manners that manifest themselves in an authentic feeling of tolerance and hospitality and hospitality; customs that go even beyond our own awareness: sometimes dumb and often we end up being critical and quarrelsome. And this morning we had an example, when, instead of rejoicing or taking advantage of an opportunity to keep silent, someone created a bagar about the liberation of our eighteen fellow countrymen. I would also like to point out, in this context, that among those eighteen fishermen there were Italians, Tunisians, Senegaleses and even Indonesians. Having said that, returning to the topic under consideration, the Consulta declared the constitutional illegitimacy of that norm contained in Article 13 of Decree-Law No 113 of 2018, which, in fact, did not recognize applicants for international protection who obtained the residence permit the right, but also the duty - I would say - to the registration. From all the points of view considered, the norm censored contradicts the purposes of decree-law n.113 of 2018, since the same does not facilitate the pursuit of the purposes of control of the territory declared by the decree security itself. Security is achieved with clear rules, with the possibility of carrying out serious checks to prosecute those who do not respect the norms, even the most elementary ones, and with the certainty of the penalty and the timeliness of the same, as a great Italian illuminist said. Important element: the current context has also changed compared to two years ago. Therefore, with the decree-law under consideration, we provide our law enforcement forces with far more effective means of controlling the repatriation of irregulars. We have always believed that the most effective response was a system of controlled reception, widespread, efficient and managed in a transparent way; all points that, with this decree, are strengthened. We repeat, once again, that the issue is primarily a European one and not just a frontier one. More in detail, we have paths to allow easier monitoring and prevent those people from wandering around our country and ending up in crime. We avoid marginalization, which is the cause of potential violent reactions. We take action on procedures for examining asylum applications, with particular attention to particularly vulnerable groups, such as children, pregnant women and the elderly; we extend the competences of the territorial committees. We shorten the time of detention for the repatriation of irregulars, reducing from one hundred and eighty to ninety days the stay in our country and, above all, we are back in line with the fundamental norms of international law. We are not for the indiscriminate reception, but not for the slogans on such a delicate and complex matter: we are to make the country work and to make it safer; an objective that is neither right-wing nor left-wing. In conclusion, Mr President, the Government has worked as a border country with our Minister for Foreign Affairs a common line with Spain, Greece, Cyprus and Malta. About 1,200 people were repatriated in 2020 after the agreement with the Tunisian authorities, which made it possible to expect many more flights than expected. Aware that trafficking in human beings is not defeated alone and cannot be stopped at sea, nor in our ports, we have addressed to the Tunisian Government a proposal for cooperation that has already been implemented. I can't go any further. There are also more restrictive rules for the Daspos and the fight against drug trafficking. In short, they are all measures of common sense, rational, punctual and above all dictated by concrete needs, without demagogic aims, supported by those who oppose - as I have heard - that, without entering into the substance of the measures, refers to biased methods and simple propaganda. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u150	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u151	Mr President, Government, fellow senators, the regulatory intervention in the process of conversion has a composite and uneven nature: it intervenes on the discipline of immigration and international protection; it introduces changes to the penal code and security provisions; it redefines the role of the National Guarantor of the rights of persons detained or deprived of personal freedom; it poses an unclear issue of succession of laws over time with retroactivity hypotheses and reports widespread criticalities. Article 2 extends the possibility that an appeal against the measure issued by the territorial commission has no suspensive effect, extending it to the possibility of rejecting applications submitted by persons subject to criminal proceedings or sentenced for crimes which constitute a cause of refusal of refugee status. This is normally absolutely necessary because, if not, the appeal would have had the effect of freezing the expulsion order following rejection in the most serious cases and of immediate investigation. The possibility of immediately ascertaining the existence of such conditions should lead, even in this case, in the more than probable case of a request for injunction of the effects of the contested measure, a monocratic decision to accept or reject, with modification of the current forecast of Article 35-a of Legislative Decree No 25 of 2008, which includes two collegial rulings, both in the event of acceptance and rejection of the request for suspension, with a procedural unicum, which does not meet with the institutes in the matter of injunction provided for by the Code of Rite. It seems inevitable to proceed towards the identification of elements aimed at speeding up the phase of the judicial rite of the appeal of the measures of the territorial commissions. In accordance with Article 35- bis, it is good to reiterate that the request for instruments to make the rite more agile and speedier is due not only - and this would be sufficient - to the need to free the district courts from an unsustainable number of protection proceedings, which force the protection of citizens' rights to be sacrificed beyond all measures, but also to the need to ensure, within a reasonable time and in such a way as to comply with the principles of Article 111 of the Constitution, the rights of asylum seekers, in the knowledge that only protection which intervenes in rapid times can be said to be such and is able to protect the effectiveness of the rights exercised. The application effects of the discipline under consideration have not been evaluated with the aim of preparing all the useful legislative instruments that make it possible to make the rite more agile and speedy, also through the passage from the collegial rite to the monocratic rite, in order to be able to employ in the decision of the proceedings as many judges as currently make up the college, and to be able to table also the honorary judges. The measure amends the rules contained in the single text of the provisions on immigration rules, providing for the possibility of automatic conversion of the residence permit for assistance to minors to residence permits for reasons of work. The residence permit for assistance to minors, provided for in Article 31, provides that the court for minors may authorise the entry and residence of a member of the child's family who is in the Italian territory under precise and specific conditions, i.e. when there are serious reasons related to psychophysical development and taking into account the child's age and health conditions. The rule, in addition to providing for such conditions by virtue of the exceptional nature of that permit, which may also be granted by way of derogation from the other provisions of the single text, therefore states that the same must be issued only for a specified period of time and in any case must be withdrawn when the serious reasons justifying its issue are terminated. It is clear that this permit is more like an authorization to enter Italy of an exceptional and contingent nature, precisely because it is carried out by way of derogation from the provisions of our law governing the entry and residence of the foreigner in the national territory. The forecast of its convertibility into a residence permit for reasons of work runs counter to the ratio of Article 31 and lends itself to an instrumental use of it. The lack of any specific condition regarding the effective income capacity and the possession of an appropriate accommodation, where, moreover, the child should live, and an insurance health cover exposes even more our country to an increase in migratory flows, attracted by the prospect of being able to easily obtain a residence permit in Italy. [[Applause]] Already the Council of State, with its opinion of 15 July 2015, had expressed a negative opinion on the convertibility to work permit of particular residence permits to be considered an exception, as in the case of assistance to minors, compared to the general facility which is expressly based on the programming of flows and the system of entrance quotas. The application effects of the provisions referred to in the preamble have not been considered - and I conclude - in order to take further legislative initiatives... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . .residence for assistance to children referred to in Article 31, on a residence permit for reasons of work, possession of the applicant of the availability of adequate means of subsistence, suitable accommodation and an insurance health cover. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u152	She's registered to speak with Senator Pacific. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u153	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, Mr Malpezzi, my vote against today's decree-law, to be extremely brief, is summed up in two sets of reasons, one purely political and the other technical. In order to reach the cancellation of the decree "Conte uno" we hide behind the reliefs advanced by the President of the Republic, not to improve the original plant of the so-called decree Salvini, but only to show a scalp to show as proof of fidelity to its allies. [[Applause]] One cannot fail to remember that we voted that decree-law firmly. In fact, someone in a colorful way moved the yes claiming that it would help to reduce the races of sea taxis. But not only that: it was said that the widespread reception system was a failed experience. [[Applause]] Well, I still believe that the system that we reproposed was and will be very expensive and ineffective. It also seems even more disarming the surrender to NGOs, which will basically have an immunity license. [[Applause]] In the new single text on immigration and foreign entry flows into the European Union, it is stipulated that, in the event of failure to publish the three-year programming, the President of the Council may provide by his own decree. It would appear that, regardless of the need for foreign labour, Italy is bound to welcome immigrants. I would like to understand who we have this obligation to. In conclusion, Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council has the greatest discretion to accept, but at the same time the abolition of the quaestor's discretion in the assessment for the revocation or refusal of the residence permit. Perhaps asking a quaestor why he sometimes withdraws or refuses to grant a residence permit would help to understand why this new decree-law should not be voted on. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u154	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u155	Mr President, I would ask for permission to hand over the text of my speech, so that it can be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u156	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly. Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u157	Mr President, the measure we are debating is wrong in substance and it is wrong in the proceedings. It has been said before that it is wrong to do so because it opens up ports indiscriminately and gives gas back to the manger and the business around illegal immigration. [[Applause]] It is wrong in the proceedings, because there are no conditions of necessity and urgency for urgent decision. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that it is also wrong in the context, because this measure falls into the midst of a global pandemic that our children will read in history books, in which there is an economic crisis and a health and social emergency. At a time when schools are closed, at a time when VAT matches, entrepreneurs are on their knees, this government thinks of revising the Salvini decrees [[Applause]] And it does not do so in the interests of Italy, but because it is led by two beasts who in politics do not have to lead a choice of government: ideological fury and personal aggression. This is the basis of this decree-law. And I want to put a question, with respect but also firmness, to my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars: do you know what you are going to vote for? Do you know that what you are going to vote on is the exact opposite of what you voted on about two years ago? Do you know you're doing the exact opposite? You said a short time ago that the best way to manage immigration was to regulate access, close ports, and intelligently regulate access to our territory. Today you are for illegal immigration and cheerful immigration. [[Applause]] Do the opposite of what you did before, but there is more and it happened in Catania a few days ago: deny also what you have done; that former minister, your colleague, of whom we remember very well the name because we have good memory, Toninelli, denied what he proudly said he had done in the interest of Italy. [[Applause]] Here is a difference: in Catania, thank God, unlike your colleague, we have seen a man who, with pride and pride, has reiterated what he has done in the interest of Italy and coordinating with a collegial will of that Government. To conclude, Mr President, the difference between us and you can be summed up in a context: for us, the Viminal is and remains the home of the Forces of Order, while for you it risks becoming the home of NGOs. [[Applause]] Unfortunately, this will not happen! Mr President, let me say one last thing. A few days ago the Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Potenza carried out protective custody orders to fight all the business that revolves around illegal immigration. There were bogus contracts. In a telephone intercept between two alleged delinquents - the farmer who used these bogus contracts and the intermediary - the farmer said that he thought that the controls of the Labour Inspection were due to some spy. The intermediary said: no, unfortunately it is not some spy, this is the hand of Minister Salvini, who aims to combat illegal immigration. [[Applause]] This means, by reading the papers of the Public Prosecutor's Office from the press, that this was a tool for bringing dangerous subjects for our nation into our territory. Article 52 of the Constitution states: "The defense of the Homeland is the sacred duty of the citizen." [[Applause]] Former Minister Salvini was first of all a great and exemplary citizen. [[Applause]] With this measure you risk wasting time on Italy, but do not think to stop us, because you will not succeed. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u158	Senator Ferrara is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u159	Mr President, with the conversion of the decree-law on immigration and security, we are talking about national legislation so that, among other things, it is in line with Italy's international obligations and commitments. The fundamental intervention of the measure is the provision that the refusal and revocation of the residence permit cannot be adopted when serious reasons arise from compliance with the constitutional or international obligations of the State. This, like other passages, also responds to what was expressed by the President of the Republic Mattarella when issuing the security decree in October 2018. In this case, the President recalled the need for the constitutional and international obligations of the State to remain firm in this matter. Colleagues, no one can die or be tortured because of their sexual orientation, the religion they profess or the colour of their skin, but above all - let me tell you - no one deserves to die so that some parties can build an electoral campaign on it. [[Applause]] Using hate and fear to pick up like and gather consensus is how much lower politics can conceive. Speaking of hatred, I would like to express our solidarity with my colleague Danilo Toninelli, who has been subjected to a media attack based on unworthy and piloted fake news. [[Applause. Comments]] The resulting threats received via social media are a worrying sign of a growing climate of hatred. Mr President, let me make one point. To those who accuse the Movimento 5 Stars of having changed their mind about migration policies I respond with sincerity. Today we are relieved to be able to amend these decree-laws, because they have never fully convinced us. [[Comments]] We voted for them only in accordance with a government agreement, but as we feared and pointed out - the evidence has shown - the provisions of the security decrees are ineffective. In the long run those measures proved to be for what they were: useless propaganda commercials. Regarding the difference between those who make commercials and those who do the facts, I would like to thank President Conte, Minister Di Maio and the entire Government for the work that led to the liberation of the 18 Italian fishermen. [[Applause]] Yes, we like the facts, as well as the agricultural training project for young people in Ghana launched a year ago by the President-in-Office of the Council. The position of the Movimento 5 Stars in the field of immigration is different from yours. We are for a pragmatic and non-ideological approach, which judges solutions not because they seem left-wing or right-wing, but because they work or do not work in evidence and the facts have shown that illegal smuggling of migrants has not stopped in the manner proposed by the right-wing. We can say it once and for all: the League has failed [[Comments]] , failed in the only battle that distinguishes its politics [[Applause]] , a policy of antagonism that wants to fuel a war between the poor, wanted and designed to create conflict between migrants and those Italians, in economic difficulty, victims of austerity policies that no government, before the current one, had managed to change in Brussels. Our goal must be to combine sustainable immigration with social pacification and not to sow fears, hiding behind the flag of that Italy that they once wanted to divide. Salvini, beyond his slogans as defender of the borders, made his shows, stopping some NGO rescue ship loaded with dangerous shipwrecks, forgetting the so-called ghost landings, which represent 80% of the incoming flows. [[Comments]] Mr President, I am sorry, but I cannot speak with this background. If it were possible to silence these howls.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u160	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u161	FERRARA (M5S). To those who continue to repeat that in the last year the landings have tripled, we remind that until two months ago the decrees Salvini were still in force, demonstrating that the phenomenon does not stop with a decree. The former Minister of the Interior had promised to repatriate all irregular immigrants present in Italy. Does that look like it happened to you? No. On the contrary, instead of slogans, the government moved immediately to make bilateral agreements and to stop departures. [[Comments. Senator Ferrara bows.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reality is that Matteo Salvini has only bullied the poor people. [[Applause]] Branding the rosary carried out a dialectic of hatred, opposed to that image of Christian charity and compassion that the rosary should symbolize. At least at this time of Christmas you should reread the parable of the Good Samaritan. He had the illusion that he could force Europe to play its part, but he had the opposite effect. Today, Italy is not only actively participating, but, thanks to the great work of President Conte, Europe is changing on this too, preparing the ground for overcoming the anachronistic Dublin regulations voted by the right. This is what the 5 Star Movement has always called for in the area of immigration, together with the establishment of legal and secure channels of entry into Europe for asylum seekers. It has been since the last legislature that we stress how important it is to face the root causes of migration and this means to focus on international cooperation, to combat poverty and unemployment, in order to guarantee young people in those countries the sacred right to build a life and a family close to their affections, without being forced to go to seek luck elsewhere. Mr President, we must avoid the hypocrisy of those with one hand and with the other. There is no point in cooperating if we continue to tolerate forms of neocolonialism and predatory exploitation of the natural, financial and human resources of the African continent. I conclude by saying that today, with the measure under consideration, we want to reconcile in a more balanced way reception and security, respect for international law and the fundamental principles of the Italian Constitution and we want to show that, more than electoral consensus, we are interested in protecting the sacredness of human life and a just coexistence. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u162	Colleagues, on 16 December 2020, the First President of the Court of Cassation sent the following letter: In accordance with the last paragraph of Article 2 of Law No 87 of 11 March 1953, containing rules on the Constitution and the functioning of the Constitutional Court, I have the honour to inform you that the College of this Supreme Court of Cassation, specially convened, today elected Dr. Maria Rosaria San Giorgio Judge of the Constitutional Court, in place of Dr. Mario Rosario Morelli, who fulfilled his mandate on 12 December 2020. F.to Pietro Curzio" To Maria Rosaria San Giorgio I wish you good work, on my personal behalf and on behalf of the whole Assembly. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u163	Senator Bossi Simone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u164	Mr President, I could begin my speech by arguing that you are clearly violating the Europe Agreements, just as I have been doing all day yesterday in the Commission, but since you give a damn about what you are doing, I am trying to argue otherwise. Therefore I will use the time that, fortunately, democracy still allows me, to tell you what I think of your decree, far light years from the context that the Italians are living. On Saturday morning I was at home and, while the TV broadcasted the news from Catania, between a strange memory and a "I don't know" of Toninelli, I wondered how a former minister could get to that. I was thinking about that lightness and I was thinking about the security decree, which we're here to discuss today. You see, colleagues, when we wrote the Salvini decrees, we did it with all of you. [[Applause]] You even amended them, and your current Parent Company was my President of the Commission. Together with him, we amended them and subsequently voted them back in this House. You have spoken favorably three times and today you change the decree-law as if nothing had happened, with all this simplicity. I'm not a doctor, but I think in medicine, this is a serious behavior disorder. [[Applause]] and have a precise name. I don't want to think this is just ignorance, but I want to give you an alibi. In the drafting of the decree-laws you knew very well to put, with us, black on white, the word end to the illegal invasion and we had also succeeded. Today, after months, a great deer arrives: who knows what happened? One day you will explain it to us or perhaps we have already understood it and you know it very well. Maybe it was better if you'd gone on and take care of TAV. No, I'm sorry, I've got the wrong example. Maybe the MES was better? But that went wrong too. [[Applause]] Maybe I could quote the TAP? No, not even that one. [[Applause.]] (at 7.50 p.m.) (Following Bossi Simone). You're right, partner, there were also the two warrants; I was forgetting that. Then, there was also the saving father-in-law - no, damn it! - but something always has to go wrong. Something always goes wrong, who knows why. The truth is this, my dearest friend; the truth is that you have entered virgins in here and are coming out porn stars! [[Applause.]] That's the truth! Maybe you should go back to "fucking" on the web, at least you don't do any harm there, my friends! At least you don't do any damage there! [[Applause]] So much, the citizenship income you gave to the human world, you gave it to the bosses too, let alone if you don't take it you didn't investigate. Oh, no, sorry, maybe you have those too. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u165	Senator Bossi, please speak to the presidency. It's okay anyway. You should speak to the Presidency and I should like to call on anyone who disturbs you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u166	BOSSI Simone (L-SP-PSd'Az). After I have also recovered the time of applause. Maybe then Di Maio will come up with a zero suspect, so we can solve that problem, too, Mr. President. [[Applause.]] Never a joy! But let's go back to us. I want to quote the numbers, because it was the numbers that talked, not the chatter that they said, just to talk. From 2018 to 2019, therefore, as soon as the decree-law Salvini entered into force, during the immediate implementation of the same we passed - ready, go! - from 1,654 to 757 landings; the bodies recovered at sea go from eighty-three to four, then reduced by 80 percent in a few months. In one year, the number of immigrants landed increased from 42,000 to 8,000. After all these months, I have a simple question and I expect an answer from you, if you are able to give it, since I have tabled more than 100 questions and I have never been given an answer: who really are the murderers, President [[Applause),]] those who save lives and fight for the security and defense of internal and external borders or those who let women and children die in the middle of the sea, feeding the business of illegal immigration? [[Applause.]] You see, you only have a great desire to dismantle the Salvini decree-laws to restart human trafficking in the Mediterranean. I address the friends of the PD: but how many friends of friends do you still have to fatten on the shoulders of the Italians before stopping? [[Applause]] Let's keep going, let's keep going. Maybe imported Covid patients that no one controls, no one blocks, no cure, and then, as it were, we put them back in the villages, forcing the mayors to accept them, as if that were the primary problem. The primary problem today are our grandparents who face death in solitude and in the silence of the institutions; we are leaving them alone: these are the problems of the people. [[Applause]] Then, it will be the fault of the Presidents of the Regions, it will be the fault of regional health, of the mayors, but never of the Government: the Executive in all this will never have a fault because responsibility is always a big burden to bear. I shall conclude, Mr President, because I think I have run out of time. Be consistent at least with yourself, friends 5 Stars; respect what you did the first time, because that was the right way. Do not fall into this sad temptation that they are putting before you; you are completely mistaken. What you had to do was follow us in this game and not save the armchairs and follow a battle that is not yours; it is a battle of the Democratic Party, it does not belong to you. You're crushing a tiger's throat with one foot. Be very careful, because one day the time will come to remove that foot, but you will not decide it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u167	So, I would like to speak politely to my colleagues in the League. Since more time has been added to the group leaders, but the speeches have not been re-modulated, if you agree, I will let you continue the speeches until their conclusion, or, Senator Romeo, tell me you, because otherwise I must interrupt you, but in reality you have more time.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u168	President. - The next item is the report (Doc.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u169	I stick to the times, then, because now I've given Senator Simone Bossi almost three more minutes to finish his concept, but I ask him not to create misunderstandings. Calculate three minutes. That's all I need. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So, I'm waiting for the new list and I'm sticking to the timing. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, ma'am. The only thing I ask of you, where four-minute speeches are planned, is to become five minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. That was exactly Senator Simone Bossi's case. That's fine. Senator Nugnes is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u170	Mr President, this is a very important moment. As has been said, certainly the immigration law has not been made, a comprehensive reform of the text has not been made and the so-called Bossi-Fini law has not been passed, but the decree-law in question finally puts things back after the many damages done on the skin of people, after the many ghosts left on the Italian territory without an identity and without the possibility of social and work integration. All this has led to an increase in general insecurity, both for Italians and foreigners, who have only ended up fueling divisions and fears, giving labour to black labour and lawlessness. This clearly happened because of the lack of registration in the anagraphs. We have put ourselves on the right track of constitutional correctness, respect for international obligations and conventions on humanitarian rights and laws, because it is not enough to state the principles in the forewords if they are then strongly contradicted in the provisions and in the facts. However, I would like to list point by point what we find in the decree-law, because a lot of mystification has been done, so it is important to say what has been done. With Decree-Law No 130 of 2020, in fact we have a return of humanitarian protection: we can change them in name, but so it is; the return of the reception system widespread in the type of protection system for asylum seekers and refugees (SPRAR), which many good practices have put in place and where asylum seekers are also included, which were instead excluded from the so-called Salvini decree-law. We have a return to registration for asylum seekers, which is the only way to know who is on our territory and not to leave it in the hands of crime. The cases of the ban on expulsion are extended, so the expulsion and rejection of a foreigner who is being persecuted for reasons of race, sex, language, citizenship, religion, political opinions, political and social conditions and not even for sexual orientation and gender identity (thanks to an amendment approved by the House), or for serious humanitarian reasons or resulting from constitutional or international obligations of the Italian State. This clarification, incidentally that had been repealed by Decree-Law No. 113 of 2018, was requested by the Chamber; it is an important explicit reminder to respect the constitutional and international obligations of the Italian State. It must also be taken into account that a departure from our national territory must not result in a violation of the law and respect for the private and family life of the foreigner. It also provides for the exclusion of vulnerable asylum seekers from accelerated procedures; forty-eight to twenty-four months of citizenship time, or rather the restoration of two years; for the reduction of disproportionate fines for non-governmental organisations and the applicability of fines only after judicial proceedings, which is not applied in the case of relief operations. All this, of course, in compliance with the rules, of course. Moreover, in view of the fact that in order to defeat human trafficking and illegal immigration, it is necessary to create legal access channels, the temporal and numerical limits of the so-called decree flows are exceeded (the last is in 2016), which should each year regulate the entry flows of foreigners for reasons of work. That's the only way we get irregular immigration. And there are public interventions aimed at promoting family relations, social inclusion, cultural integration of foreigners resident in Italy, while providing, where possible, any tool for a positive reintegration in the countries of origin. There is still action to be taken on the convertibility of certain residence permits to work for special protection, calamity, elective residence, acquisition of citizenship or state of a stateless person, for sports activities, for artistic work, for religious reasons, for minor care and for medical treatment due to serious psychophysical conditions and serious pathologies. The latter too is a voice wanted by the House, that is, by Parliament. It intervenes on the competence to limit the entry of ships into the territorial sea, abolishing the attribution that the so-called decree-law Salvini arbitrarily placed at the head of the Minister of the Interior; and the sanctioning provisions for the commander of the ship that violates the prohibition of entry into the territorial sea as well as the relative confiscation and destruction of the boats are abolished. Finally, the reasons for special residence permits are expected to be extended. Has everything been done? No, we must now pass the so-called Bossi-Fini law. We need a reform of the law on citizenship and immigration and an effective EU amendment of the Dublin Regulation. So, there's work to do. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u171	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u172	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the saddest thing of this day, which began with the good news of the fishermen returning to Italy, is the unfathomable feeling that we all have the futility of a job that has already been given to trust, and as such unchangeable. We are talking about an object that will not be able to modify even a moment. The saddest thing is that next week we will be waiting for the budget law and then the so-called Calabria decree: and it will be the same. And last week it was the same thing. The sadness stems from the fact that our whole debate will not be able to improve by a comma a measure that probably contains, as is normal, some positive aspects, contains others certainly problematic and contains some which, for a part of us, are not acceptable. But the problem is the usefulness of work; it is this system that has prevailed in this second part of the legislature, so we are a monocameral system with alternating current. That's not possible. This is, in fact, a constitutional reform that breaks what on the horizon of the Constitutional Fathers is a bicameral system. Ours is a parliamentary republic which has its own closely linked to the bicameral aspect. We are mortifying the first part through the systematic, constant and continuous insistence of decrees and DPCM, and we are mortifying the second part through this system of alternated Chambers. I do not know if you realize; I do not know if those who listen to us or the press tomorrow will be able to reveal to the citizens the vulnus that is being created: the real vulnus, today as today, is the utility of the work that, in alternate way, one House and the other do. Today's bagarre made us live for three or four hours in suspension. What will the Leader say? What's gonna happen? What then could we do? How should we adjust? All this is such a disrespect for Parliament that it says a lot about it. How can we respect the migrants who arrive if we are not able to respect even our work? And here I enter into the life of the decree-law. The provision opens the doors to all and to all. The decree-law has an afflate of humanity for which no one can be rejected and everyone has the right to obtain accommodation, reception and integration in Italy. Colleagues, we know all this very well because those of us who have been in Parliament for more than one parliamentary term know that the debate is repeated all the time, but then there are no ways - the famous implementing decrees - to make it possible and achieve it. It seems wonderful to me that they can come and study in Italy. You all know that all universities have equipped themselves with English language courses to attract foreign students, to obtain that internationalization can become an effective element of enrichment, to "disprovince" all of us, to open our heads and hearts to dialogue with people from other countries. But it will not be at this level that we will attract the best intelligence and skills. We have said that we can welcome people with serious diseases - as the previous speaker said - but we already do. Everyone knows, to mention only one hospital, that the Child Jesus is open to welcoming children in dramatic situations and - not to be forgotten - on the basis of our health system this happens in conditions of total gratuitousness. There is already a willingness to welcome the student, the sick person or, for example, to recognize the sporting merits. What would become of our football championship if there were not this logic of opening, even if after it incurs accidents of course? We saw what happened recently between Juve and the University for Foreigners of Perugia. That's not what we're missing. We miss knowing what and how we do it. The real problem is not to welcome, but to integrate not the first circle and not the first generation. Our real problem is to be able to transmit to the second generation that deep level of integration that makes them feel Italian. And to make them feel like that there is a whole series of conditions that need to be put in place. I think of the house, which is not the reception center or these famous places where they come and escape because they do not respond to the expected conditions of humanity and promises. They need work, but we are all living in the announced terror that comes not so much from the third wave of the coronavirus, but from the dramatic situation of unemployment, unemployment and layoffs. It is useless for us to be told every night that situations will improve. We all know that GDP is in free fall. We were reminded a few days ago also by the famous Draghi, who, when he was in Rimini, spoke of good debt and bad debt, and read the good debt in terms of investment and, therefore, of employment that is created. But he himself said two days ago that employment cannot be created for the simple reason that we have lost so many hits in manufacturing and because of the lack of large infrastructures, which are the ones that make employment possible and that there are no jobs. We know that migrants who come often are reduced to doing the jobs that Italians would not want to do, but it is simply a matter of a minimum time because they too will not want to do those jobs if we do not intervene by implementing the dignity and economic and social recognition of these activities. We are talking here about things that unfortunately resonate like words in freedom, because we do not say how we will do it and who will do it and we do not place ourselves in an objective perspective. When we talk, for example, about the famous migrant children who arrive unaccompanied, we do not remember that there is a good law, the law Zampa, voted by a very large majority in the previous legislature, which is not applied, because it is simply a flag. Today we should have intervened to say how to do this, how to guarantee certain safeguards. Do you know that in the law Zampa - I say this if some of the colleagues in the previous legislature had not read it - it is said that every child who arrives in Italy unaccompanied has the right to a guardian, which obviously does not mean adoption or entrust, but is a take charge? Have you seen unaccompanied minors and guardians? Are there guardians for all these children? They are not there, they disappear and we know very well that the street is that of prostitution, not only the female one, but also the male one, the street is that of the drug. In the House, right now, among the many issues that are being studied in the budget law, there is also the legalization of drugs. Not having passed as a law, having not been sufficient what has been done in raising the concentration of the product, now we return again and this will equal to opening the way further to microdelinquency, juvenile delinquency. All this was what the country was waiting for us to do. The country in our country was waiting for concrete solutions and to know how we would do this, how many people we would be able to guarantee it, how many jobs we would be able to give, how many permits for reasons of work, when the Italian unemployment and unemployment rate is very high. Instead, because this debate was of no use, because the decree was already frozen, we did not ask ourselves whether to do it, but not how to do it, and it is a great sadness because it means that we are always at the starting point. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u173	Senator Fusco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u174	Mr President, after long opposition to the House and the Senate Commissions, Parliament today notes that the Government, using as a pretext limited indications from the Presidency of the Republic on some rules introduced in the so-called security decrees, has decided, without any reason, to overturn the legislation on immigration and security, bringing to conversion what will pass to history like the clandestine decree, introducing rules completely foreign to the so-called indications, without there being any need for the world pandemic and the health and economic crisis that the country is experiencing. [[Applause]] Although it is difficult to believe, it is absurd that all this should happen with the approval of the Movimento 5 Stars, the largest part of the majority, that part that only a year ago with its favorable vote had convincedly adopted the same measures that today they want to deny and dismantle. Who knows if even on this occasion you want to take refuge in a "Don't remember"? We will remind you of this and it will be the Italians who will remember it. The only emergency that should be discussed is the global pandemic, which has affected the whole world and our country and the economic and social crisis that has resulted and has no precedent since the post-war years. We should discuss this, what measures the Government intends to take to deal with what is happening in the real world and in support of Italian citizens, remembering that if we are in this House it is to represent their interests. The Italians would like to know, after months of restrictions and sacrifices, what they will be able to do on Christmas Day; whether they will be able to meet their loved ones again or if, instead, this will not be allowed to them. For this majority, this is clearly not a priority. It seems incredible, but, obviously, the urgency of this majority is to facilitate illegal entry into our country, reviewing those same norms that have, after years of poor management of migratory flows, returned to the country of the rules able to guarantee internal security and to limit the departures from the coasts of the Countries of North Africa and, consequently, the entrances in our Country and the painful deaths in the Mediterranean. It is good that Italian citizens know that, after the news that yesterday there were 680, while today, 17 December 2020 - the news is just now - there is talk of 682 deaths from coronavirus, Parliament is not discussing the opportunity to recognize international protection to individuals who flee from countries involved in armed conflicts (especially recognized by all to safeguard). On the contrary, we are discussing how to reopen the country to uncontrolled and irregular flows of immigration, which with the current Government, it is well to remember, are already quadrupled compared to those registered when he was Minister Salvini. It is introducing the impossibility to place a limit on the entry, transit and stoppage of NGO ships that have carried out rescue operations at sea, drastically reducing the sanctions following non-compliance with the ban of transit in Italian territorial waters. As a matter of fact, the process of degeneration of the management of migratory flows is being completed, which we are witnessing from the establishment of this Government and Minister Lamorgese I find it regrettable that, at this dramatic stage, the Commission's priority is to increase in an exponential way the number of residence permits for immigrants, broadening the case-law legitimizing the concession and providing for their convertibility into a work permit. Not only that: with this new legislation we go to insert a series of reckless rules, including the reduction of the time limits for granting citizenship and the prohibition of expulsion of persons who fear discrimination related to sexual orientation, creating confusion about their applicability and leaving to the discretion of magistrates a far-reaching and unclear management, to which I anticipate an infinite number of appeals. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u175	Senator Campari is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u176	Mr President, on the fact that this is the decree open ports I think there is no longer any doubt; as I believe it is clear that the two words security and order are words that the Democratic Party and Movimento 5 Stars really hate. We closed the chapter of the illegal invasion two years ago, when we had approved the Salvini decrees, but, in reality, it would have been too smart and normal to leave things as they were, because they worked. [[Applause]] You want to stand out. You really do have this need. And you can do it well because of incompetence and inability. Come on, admit it, the Woods told you so! [[Applause]] You are pioneers of chaos. Your anarchist roots, as a social centre, occasionally reappear. It's kind of your nature. So, when you pass a good law, you feel more or less like a penguin in the desert: you are uncomfortable, sweaty, you are not well at all. [[Applause]] If you cancel the so-called Salvini decrees you will let people who are absolutely unknown to Italy and who, for the most part, as you well know, will then flee from the identification centers, pouring into our streets. We'll find them walking through our cities, one even in foreign cities, apparently, but we'll talk about this later. People whose real origin we do not know, for whom there has been no control over their identity, their possible social danger, their actual refugee status or - let alone - their working skills. Bravissimi, the underworld thanks heartily for the supply of labor at very low cost. [[Applause]] Oh, no, I'm sorry, it's priced, and it's the price of the dreams of those people you're gonna go out on with your NGOs. It is quite obvious in fact that the social and economic fabric that we have in Italy at the moment cannot absorb any migratory flow. But only you can't understand this. How nice it would be to allow Italians to vote to say what they think of how the Democratic Party has managed immigration to Italy from Monti to today. You've been handing out the wrong, deliberately wrong messages for years, years and years to direct public opinion in a hypocritical and good-natured way, to justify the immigration business. It was the well thought-out manger. [[Applause.]] It would take swift and severe punishment for human traffickers, but you, once again, by your actions deny the evidence. Our security decrees provided in fact measures to improve the effectiveness of the action of the Forces of the Order; they were operational and useful norms for those who until yesterday were plastered in their action of control of the territory for the lack of these laws, but also and above all for the lack of a State deployed to their support without if and without but. We're on the paradox. Undo a rule and, to justify this disaster, try to use excuses like regulatory voids. It is clear to everyone that the only vacuum that exists is that of your political action. [[Applause]] Where were you in all these years when the territory begged for help, intervention, a law for honest citizens? And especially where you are today, what do you do today when all energies should be concentrated to help production activities, bars, restaurants, hotels and companies, sacrificed to manage the Covid emergency? What are you doing? You approve a law that makes our roads even more insecure than they are right now. For us, in Italy, there is no room for illegals and criminals; for us the rights of honests come before those of criminals. Weird? You have created the ideal conditions to make even murderers and terrorists land; remember that because it is a shame that it does not wash easily. You should apologize, resign and hide for shame. Instead, start laying the foundations for a new mass invasion, with your new residence permits for humanitarian reasons, on the contrary, no, sorry, for the various and possible reasons. In fact, we have family ties, serious psychophysical conditions, sports, religious or sexual motives. You're creating an army for the underworld. Your chair really is worth more than your credibility. Do you still have a little something, a crumb, a pinch? [[Applause]] President, in conclusion, because of you there will be new risks to safety and public health and other money for the reception will be asked to the Italians. This will be yet another choice of hateful flag, unsustainable and so far from reality, as the radical chics that promulgate yet another filth to the detriment of honest Italian citizens from their ivory palaces. Sooner or later, however, you will reply to the Italians and you will not just be ashamed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u177	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u178	Mr President, Government, leave me a premise: we are happy, happy, happy that the 18 fishermen in Mazara del Vallo have been freed and that is why we join the choir of thanks to our intelligence, which once again managed to solve a case that seems desperate. So Merry Christmas to them and Merry Christmas to their families. [[Applause]] But let's come to us. It seems surreal to me, indeed, it is surreal that today, 17 December 2020, at a time like this when Italy as a whole is living with a suspended breath, thanks - it is done to say - to a Government that is not able to give tranquillity, because totally inadequate and confused: at a time like this, when Italy is living one of the worst periods of its contemporary history, with an ongoing crisis in the field (health, economic, psychological of the people, who go into depression, when the only desirable crisis would be that of government), at a time when the citizens do not know what their future will reserve, starting from the next one, that will see the families divided at Christmas, families like those of my Bergamo territory, who have already lost in a heartbreaking way their loved ones; at a time when the government is not able to realize a project that goes beyond the day to prepare for this extremely difficult task; at a time when the sword of Damocles of being able to open up the stock, to support the activities and even reopening of the possibility of working in the last part of this government, it is now, at a time when it is a time when it is hungry to go about to be able to be able to be able to be able to be opened up again in order to work in order to be able to build a project, and to work again in order to work in order to do something that it is still to do something which it? again in order. To work in a manner of saying, because by now Parliament works yes day and night, but like a modern Sisyphus, called only to vote scandalous and unnerving confidences, for example on a measure such as the immigration decree- bis PD, to be converted into law according to characteristics of exceptionality and urgency that do not exist. A measure that, by charity, is certainly important in the matter, but that in the method is absolutely inappropriate and wrong, because it continues not to take into account so many important factors that are not considered at all. In fact, far from us the thought of leaving behind those who suffer, of not wanting to help the most unfortunate; but we want to do it cum wheat salt, creating all the conditions necessary to manage at best a phenomenon that could become unstoppable if we do not deal with it in a serious and engaging way, starting from bilateral agreements at European level, but also worldwide, passing from putting in place every initiative aimed specifically at helping people to grow and prosper in their country (the famous Marshall plan, which perhaps now serves more Italy than Africa), but above all not to be dull and mocked. This is the seriousness, precisely for the deep respect of the dignity of the human person and of the fundamental rights of each individual person, according to the same concept that we are trying to make pass by us in Italy, especially today, in this difficult moment: the assistanceism end in itself serves nothing, if it is not accompanied by concrete interventions and actions of investment compared to the realization of conditions suitable to create work and make people autonomous. We must act, in the face of the increase in the landings that Italy is experiencing, by implementing a support plan for those who will still have to suffer the weight of the management of the reception, which sees at the forefront our mayors and our municipalities, especially the smaller and more decentralised ones. [[Applause]] Sicilian mayors, for example, who have to endure the first wave, and then paradoxically the deepest mayors of the North, those of the smallest and most decentralised municipalities of the mountains. Mayors and Municipalities to the antipodes in Italy, who find themselves having to manage unmanageable situations that trigger intolerance and insuffering, where intolerance and insuffering is certainly not the prerogative of those who live in naturally generous territories. In recent years in mountain territories like mine, the mayors of the Municipalities of our valleys have found themselves in situations where from evening to morning the prefectures requisitioned structures and locals to transform them to the beautiful and better in centres of first temporary reception (there are still in full activity) that then, indeed, have become permanent, with villages of one hundred inhabitants that have found themselves to host one hundred migrants without a plan of integration. [[Applause]] Can you imagine? One hundred migrants, among other things, usually all of the same kind, so either all men or all women, more often all men; obviously I don't think you can imagine it, because ruling from behind a desk doesn't allow you to see what happens in the real country. Precisely in order to avoid having to relive territories that have already been damaged geographically and economically and to protect immigrants, we had already asked the House and we continue to ask the government today in the Senate to take into account the opinions of the mayors. In the perennial litany that we continue to repeat, the mayors and Parliament are the forgotten task force. The mayors are the first line, they know the territories and their opinion should be taken into absolute consideration. But the prerogative of this majority of government is only one: not to listen to those who should be heard, then finding themselves making surreal and meaningless decisions, even disassembling what the previous majority had built, as if Count 1 and Count 2 were two different Presidents of the Council. In my opinion, it is a little sad that in order to remain in the majority the principles are sold. Decree immigration and exceptionality and urgency: entering into the merit of the decree-law, with this provision the norm becomes more open and makes less rejecting access. Considering that we have never managed to completely govern the phenomenon and that there are many influential factors, in particular for immigration from the Mediterranean (think of Libya divided in two, African countries in the middle of civil and hungry war, the role of many countries and the many interests, Turkey, America and France), it is possible to assume an increase in the number of migrants. It was therefore not considered the most important aspect, the practical one, that is to say the need to include the forecast of more expenditure and not, as planned, substantially unchanged appropriations. Nor can it be said, as in other cases of spending, that the money runs out of expenditure, because these are tap actions, as much of the health care costs are. In Italy, by Constitution, by civilization and by culture, we cannot say "opero di peritonite" the first ten and the others I let them die."The same is true of migrants. So, what are we gonna do when the money's gone? Is it possible that you do not have the slightest practical sense, that attention of the good father of a family that is the minimum requirement of the one who administers and of the one who governs the public thing? Therefore, in the measure, at the very least, there is a lack of cover, which will result in the disaster: the provisions of Article 81 of the Constitution apply only to the intelligent amendments of the oppositions and nothing else. So it is an ideological and politically opposed norm, we understand this, but at least it is correct, it is covered and it has the minimum requirements. I don't know if I can take a few more minutes. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. No, he's got ten minutes. Yours have been re-evaluated, Senator. GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). I go very fast: the exceptionality and urgency would be to start doing things well for Italy, if we want to become a really welcoming country, because if it continues like this it will be the Italians who want to escape. It would also be enough for such a precious moment, that we will be forced to live far away, like Christmas, not to see macroscopic errors: close from 24 to 27, as planned; then reopen from 28 to 30, then close from 31. I hope they're boutades and journalistic illusions, because otherwise we'd be crazy. You're gonna have to come to I hope that this majority, if there are members who decide to pull their heads out of the sand, will rethink and understand that it is not the time of an immigration decree like this. I remember - and I conclude - that the measure under consideration will open the doors to everyone indiscriminately and will do much harm to migrants who really arrive for necessity. It will hurt everyone very much because the real problem, as Mrs Binetti mentioned earlier, is not only to welcome, but to integrate. We will never turn our heads in the face of real suffering, but we will try to use it to create the most advantageous conditions for anyone who is entitled to a better life. You don't make a law like that, just to put a flag on. We are preparing to vote with confidence on a measure that would need time, insights, agreements and strong understandings. Colleagues, this is the time to focus on how much we should do to avoid, one day not too far, to find ourselves to reverse the parts and resume in our hands the cardboard suitcase, forced to leave our country, which is the most beautiful in the world. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u179	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to start at the end to avoid having to cut, at the end of my speech, a part that I think is very important. I explain to you why, despite everything (although this Government has handled the pandemic so badly from the epidemiological point of view and the management, from the point of view of social protection, it has been in my view bad and despite the institutional relations of this Government with Parliament have been totally absent), in this circumstance, because there is the logic of the package (so we must vote for the confidence to approve the measure, because in the Senate it is not possible to do otherwise), I will vote for the trust. I will do so to vote on the measure and not so much and certainly not to give my confidence to this Government, which has now lost it. However, at this moment I must say that, in fact, from what we have heard today, between inactinities and low-level cabaret, apart from some intervention, there has in essence been no mention of the measure. The painted scenery is not the real one. At a time when, for example, it has been said that with fewer departures there would be fewer deaths, it has failed to remember that thousands are the deaths that are not recorded by the International Organization for Migration. So, that salvinian equation -- less departures, less deaths -- is false. The text before us today is in the right direction and that is why I am violent and will vote for this Government. Despite some shyness, limitations and contradictions, the decree-law of the Government has been significantly improved in the Chamber of Deputies and today there is a provision that meets the real needs. Not only are the criteria of justice and principles of the rule of law reaffirmed, but, in administrative practice, these rules also allow the procedures to be made more efficient and less confusing than the Salvini decrees, with which, as was said, in October and November 2018, 100,000 people were made invisible and deprived of a physical location and residence. As I told you, colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, certainly those decrees created conditions of greater insecurity, as it was easy to predict (it was not necessary, as is said in Naples, the ark of science, as it was immediate). It is clear that marginalized people could do nothing but find exploiters in the irregularity and turn to crime. That's what we said two years ago. Welcome. Finally, we are approving a rule that is not seeking consensus, it is not propaganda. This is important: to achieve something in Parliament that we can share, without necessarily having to pursue the easy consensus of the masses. All right, it may be unpopular, but that's what we have to do. We must also remember, however, that it is not only the center-right that has done wrong - indeed, very badly - in this matter, with the Bossi-Fini, but also the center-left, that with the Minniti-Orlando law has canceled the appeal for a category of people, that is, it has established that, for some categories, there was no second degree. It is insanity: a rule such as this erases the rule of law. It is necessary to rethink these norms, because there is a very serious vulnus in the very structure of justice, which must be removed, as today some distortions created by the Salvini decrees are to be removed. However, we must have the courage to move forward and tackle the remaining problems, as Mrs Nugnes said, in the area of citizenship and justice. In the measure under consideration there are also important innovations, which however allow us to restore at least the modest level of civilization before decree Salvini. He was already modest, but let's see some of these aspects. In the meantime, residence permits can be converted into work permits and this is important, especially in terms of medical care, which can be obtained. This is one of the changes introduced by the House of Deputies, and I would stress this, ladies and gentlemen, because I want to point out that parliamentary work is not meaningless, when it is done well and colleagues in the House of Deputies have done a good job, all in all. The connection between Article 5 (6) and Article 19 avoids confusion and discretion by the administration, establishing that the residence permit may be issued for special protection. The propaganda of the League had created a confused structure and a huge mass of irregularities. The restoration of the reception by the municipalities, with the former SPRAR, which today are called SAI, i.e. integrated reception systems for asylum seekers no longer distinguishes, no longer marginalizes and therefore does not criminalise asylum seekers compared to holders of protection, and this is another important fact. Finally we reopen the possibility of entry for work, with programming and decrees flows, for years blocked. It is therefore important to say that, everywhere in the country, in this House, in the House of Deputies, we all agree that we must regularise. Fine, but how do you do it if you don't open the flows again? The decree-law under consideration begins to do so. It didn't take long, but we're doing it here. In order to enter Italy - we all agree on this and I have heard it from all sides - foreigners must not address themselves to the underworld or to the smuggler, but to the State, which must have reception and integration paths, as some colleagues rightly said. Therefore, we must not rely on blind norms, of closure, without vision and perspective, as were the rules of the Salvini decrees, because creating a wall in the middle of the sea does not stop the sea, but diverts it and therefore arrive autonomously, we do not know its name and history and we have no security. This is the link between immigration and security. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, even though there are so many things to say. A few steps still had to be taken on the security decree bis, but I'm gonna cut it off. Fortunately, that reference to Article 19 of the Montego Bay Convention was made, because it was wrong. All the Conventions must be recalled and in full, that is, it must be said that, when there is a rescue at sea, those people are no longer immigrants, but are shipwrecked and change the status. PRESIDENT. - The debate is You have to finish, Senator. I'm sorry. DE FALCO (Misto-+Eu-Az). I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying only that I appreciate this change of course by Movimento 5 Stars. Of course, it also hurts a little personally, Mr President, that I was expelled from that political group and today there is not even a clear admission of error on their part, not towards me, but towards the norm, because that was the problem of so many people who died at sea. The people who went to help found themselves faced with a drama: sanction or duty. There is still this drama and it must be eliminated. At this moment, Mr President - and I shall end really - I want to say a word for the happiness that I am feeling at the thought that Mrs Rosa and Mrs Cristina will be able to embrace their son and husband respectively in Mazara del Vallo. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u181	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u182	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I had already spoken this morning. I was waiting, I was hoping, I was hoping for some answers to the questions I had asked, especially two questions. The first is relative to the borders: every nation, every state, every country has its own specificity, which is not only that of the people who live in it, of the laws that are applied, of the currency, but has precise boundaries. I wonder, then, if Italy continues to have borders and if these still coincide with those of Europe, given the represses arrived from the European summits for the policy that Italy is adopting. A policy of openness, a policy that is demonstrating that it does not really achieve anything good, if it is true, as it is true, that even today we have reached our Group - but also those who speak to you - numerous complaints and manifestations of great concern on the part of the Forces of the Order. I want to thank the Forces of Order, starting with the Carabinieri Army to the State Police, the Finance Guard, also to the municipal police; I thank all those who, in essence, live on the territory the terrible tragedy of crime. It is crime and it is undeniable, because, you see, the only distance I see from these political forces is that from reality. [[Applause]] It is useless that we tell the Italians a different narration than what it is, because if we go to any outskirts of any city, we see what the real situation is that we live, and it is a dramatic situation. There are many Italians who are confronted not only for economic reasons related to poverty, in competition perhaps with those who are helped, with those who have subsidies, with those who are placed inside a circuit that can help to survive and who, instead, must, day after day, succeed in some way to make ends meet, to arrange lunch with dinner. Colleagues, you had to abolish poverty, but it seems to me that poverty has increased. If we look at the Istat data, we are perfectly aware that there are about 6 million people living in Italy in a very serious condition. So I wonder how we can - and you must - give answers to the Italians, even in the face of a situation of less employment. I would remind this House - but I would also remind those who are listening - that we have collected a number of negative records: we are black shirts in Europe for women's unemployment as well as for youth unemployment; we have black shirts in general for unemployment. And you have to explain to the Italians - I don't know how you haven't done it yet - why we're still talking about quotas. Don't we have enough shares of foreigners in Italy right now? This is another element that should make you think. Then, if so, you should also realize that the provision is wrong. We are not helping those who arrive; we are putting them in conditions of extreme and enormous discomfort, because there are no minimum guarantees to allow them to remain on national territory in conditions of dignity (dignity which is also an act of love, which must be reserved for those who want to host). In fact, you can't think of calling tens, hundreds, millions of people in Italy if you don't give them the chance to really integrate, to have a job and a home, what they don't even have many Italians. It is therefore not wrong, in principle, to remember that citizenship is not a right, but a status. If you are an Italian citizen, you must have prerogatives, you cannot be put in a condition of handicapped sovereignty, when tomorrow maybe someone arrives and lands. It must also be borne in mind that the annual expenditure, for direct expenditure only, amounts to EUR 5 billion. I wonder how we think we can deal with this situation again in the current situation, even in the light of another aspect. We know that in April, when redundancies are allowed, we will have a catastrophic economic situation: the tax revenues will decrease, the redundancies will increase and in this context you have not yet explained to the Italians how you say that they still have to come foreigners, you do not understand what for. We have already clarified this this morning, saying with great precision that we agree on a principle: we consider racism an infection of the spirit, but at the same time we also consider it towards the Italians, especially at the time when principles are applied upside down, that is, the Italians have the duties and those who arrive in Italy have all the rights. This in fact happens, because, at the very moment when a person arrives and arrives in Italy, it is in a sort of "Win for life!" without end and there is no date on which - even this you have to explain - this condition must end. So what are you going to tell them? What do you say to your electorate? In particular, I am referring to the left, because we have two in this House. We have the left of the 5 Stars, which appears to me in a bipolar political condition, because, if we put ourselves in tune with what they said a year ago about the same measures and if we went to read the speeches or to remember what they were saying in this House and compare it with what we are hearing today, we would really find ourselves in the situation of not being able to explain or understand what happened. Is it just a matter of chairs? Is it just the will to keep this government up? I also turn to the left of the Democratic Party, the one that should have defended the interests of the humble, the last. I am thinking of the leftists who have always joked to help those who find it extremely difficult to put together lunch with dinner, the unemployed and the marginalized. What are we going to say when you allow thousands and hundreds of thousands of foreigners to arrive? I notice a huge contradiction, even at the moment when you speak, for example, of the Armed Forces. Some time ago, we voted on the measure on international missions: what are we going to tell our boys and our girls in uniform engaged on the international chessboard (about 8,000), who must defend the peace of Italy, also from terrorism? On these boats that we see arrive, unfortunately in many cases not only the Covid arrives, but also people of whom we know neither the origin nor the identity. We took some countries into consideration when we assessed what was to be done in terms of legislation, and we found that Australian legislation was superior to the others. For example, Japan has essentially zero immigration; in Dubai there are 95% immigrants; America has a kind of immigration more or less similar to that of Canada, where the ability of immigrants to carry out an activity is evaluated in particular. Here in Italy we find ourselves faced, instead, with a situation in which many of the people who arrive will have to be helped and maintained, which deeply puts into crisis the Italian social state, will create huge disparities and a struggle among the poor and of which I believe you have been complicit (and will continue to be so for a long time, because yours is an ideological influence). The time will come, however, because sooner or later you will have us vote - when we will be able to put an end to this legislation and these principles, which go against Italy and especially against Italians. These are the reasons why we will vote no and give our full support in the future, so that laws that do not help the Italian people can be repealed, because we really deserve a different fate at a difficult time like this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u183	I shall refer the following to the debate on the draft law in title and the question of trust to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u184	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-17-LEG18-Senato-sed-284.ana.u185	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Friday, December 18, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.58 p.m.
