ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.38 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 23 July. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u4	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on further initiatives in connection with the emergency from Covid-19. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u5	Dear President, Senators and Senators, I refer to the Senate today with a view to the imminent expiry of the state of emergency which, as a result of the health risk associated with the spread of the outbreak by Covid-19, was resolved in the Council of Ministers on 31 January for a period of six months (then comes to an end at the end of this month). Although there is no legal constraint, I believe that this decision should be shared with Parliament. It was concluded a few hours ago by a Council of Ministers during which we discussed the issue of the possible extension of the state of emergency, assessing in detail all its implications. I would remind you that the declaration of the state of emergency is provided for by the Civil Protection Code (which is a source of primary rank of a general nature and the legitimacy of these legislative forecasts has also been positively assessed by the Constitutional Court) and is the prerequisite for the activation of a series of powers and powers necessary to deal effectively and promptly with the emerging situations in place. Among these powers, the most intense is certainly that of order, a fundamental instrument of civil protection in order to carry out interventions that, in the absence of that specific precondition, i.e. the state of emergency, could not be implemented, at least not with similar expedition. That power of order allows the issuing of rules derogating from any existing provision, obviously within the limits and in the manner indicated in the resolution of the state of emergency and in compliance with the general principles of the legal order of the rules of the European Union. The decision that the Executive intends to take therefore finds its source of legitimacy in Article 24 of Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2018, which, always with resolution of the Council of Ministers, allows the extension of the state of emergency up to a maximum duration of twelve months. The extension is therefore a faculty expressly previewed from the law - this must be specified - and is activated, also at a distance of time regarding the occurrence of the event, whenever it becomes necessary the continuation of the participations. This requirement - and here I make a statistical notation - almost always occurs, as many precedents confirm: the state of emergency is ordinarily extended by the Government well beyond the deadline initially set. I would like to point out, for example, that 154 emergency state statements have been adopted since 2014 and 84 decisions have been taken to extend them. On the other hand, it would be incongruous - if you think about it - to abruptly suspend the effectiveness of the measures taken, if not when the proceedings initiated have been completed and the situation, on the basis of reasonableness and proportionality criteria, is due to a tolerable degree of normality. If this is true for events that are exhausted once and for all (think of an earthquake, a flood), it is even more so in this case, for an event such as the pandemic that has not resolved in a punctual fact, but has assumed the traits of a process in continuous, unpredictable evolution and that unfortunately still today, albeit to a contained extent, territorially circumscribed, has not completely exhausted its effects. If we decide otherwise, if we assume the responsibility not to extend the state of emergency declared on 31 January last, we must be aware that the ordinances would cease to have effect - it is clear that they escape the individual ordinances, but I would like to remind you that as many as 38 ordinances have been adopted, four of which currently under the scrutiny of the General Accounting of the State - as well as the consequent implementing measures. As an example, I would like to mention some of the measures which would lose their effectiveness: the setting up and management of temporary structures for assistance to positive people; the use of civil protection volunteering; the recruitment and management of health personnel task forces to support regional structures and - attention - prison institutions; the continuation of the activity relating to the 1500-free number for assistance to the population; the deferred payment of pensions at post offices to avoid assembly; the allocation to the Higher Institute of Health for epidemiological surveillance. I also mention the activation of the CROSS system, of which perhaps we do not commonly recognize the importance. The acronym CROSS stands for Central remote health care operations: in case of lack of beds in the intensive care departments of a region, when there is overcrowding, CROSS intervenes to predict - after our regulatory intervention, even mandatory - the distribution and transfer of patients to hospitals located in other regions. Among the measures that would lose effectiveness there is also the one that allows to rent ships for the health surveillance of migrants and does not escape from anyone how current the use of this instrument that contributes, together with the others prepared by the authorities, to an orderly exercise of quarantine in protection of public health. Indeed, in this regard, the offices and structures of the relevant ministries are intensely committed to dealing with a complex situation, which must be addressed with resolution, effectiveness and timeliness. Are we really convinced that we want to stop all these activities? I have mentioned some of them by way of example. Not only that, if the state of emergency were not extended, would cease the coordinating function assigned to the head of civil protection, as would the extraordinary powers attributed to the multiple actuators, designated for the performance of a myriad of specific tasks, which I do not list. The actuators for most cases are the Presidents of the Regions, as well as the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Health and the actuators responsible for managing the health surveillance of migrants. The technical and scientific committee, which has played an important role in supporting and motivating with scientific evidence the decisions of the Government in recent months, both in the phase of the progressive limitation of community relations and the suspension of economic and commercial activities, and in the delicate phase of their gradual reopening and the gradual return to normality. It should also be added that on 31 July, the date of cessation of the state of emergency, a number of terms contained in primary, and also secondary, regulatory measures adopted during the state of emergency are linked. As is well known, many provisions take as a temporal reference of their effectiveness the cessation of the state of emergency - it is, therefore, a temporal reference for relationem - while others provide terms of effectiveness on different dates, but in this case also determined for relationem at the date of expiration of the emergency state. Here too I would like to give an example to be even clearer and I quote for all an emblematic provision, Article 122 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020. In setting up the Extraordinary Commissioner, the fourth subparagraph of that rule provides that his duties shall cease at the end of the state of emergency or any extension thereof. Therefore, the failure to extend the state of emergency would end with the end of the operation of the Commissioner, whose work, alongside that of Civil Protection, is proving to be fundamental. The commissioner structure, in fact, is continuing to carry out its tasks, with particular regard to the production and distribution of instrumental goods useful to contain and to counter the emergency - we are obviously talking about the known equipment and medical devices of personal protection - but also the strengthening of the capacity of the hospital structures, with specific reference to the intensive and sub-intensive care departments, as well as the strengthening of the productive supply chains of the goods necessary for the fight against the emergency. It is also putting in place an important activity of support to the Ministry of Justice in order to ensure the smooth conduct of the procedural activities, made difficult, as is known, by the needs of distance. Especially at this stage, the commissioner's structure is proceeding with the acquisition and distribution of personal protective equipment and devices, as well as any other instrumental goods, including furnishings to ensure that the school year begins in September. [[Comments.]] There are more than 10 million people, including students, teachers and administrative staff, who will have to return to the schools in maximum safety and is an objective recognised by all as a priority. Obviously the forces of majority and opposition unite towards this objective which, in order to be achieved, requires a very high effort, an effort also collective in terms of organization, rapid finding of adequate spaces and instruments. It is a great challenge for the country. Similarly related to the date of 31 July are also the measures provided for in Decree-Law No 33 of 2020, the so-called re-opening decree-law. In accordance with Article 3 of that Decree, the measures shall apply, with exception, from 18 May to 31 July 2020. The measures in question also include specific behavioural requirements that have emerged and are decisive for the containment of contagion: for example, the prohibition of the gathering of people in public or open to the public, the obligation to ensure the maintenance of the distance of at least one metre at meetings. Although the extension of the state of emergency is not - and this must be said very clearly - a condition of legitimacy in order to extend the effectiveness of the measures taken to deal with the emergency, it is clear, however, that, in practice, the substantive conditions justifying the extension of the provisions contained in Decree-Law no. 19 and 33 of 2020, are rooted, as the best constitutionalist doctrine considers, precisely in the declaration of the state of emergency. Renewing those measures, without extending the state of emergency, would expose the overall action of the administration to observations in terms of coherence and rationality of the choices taken. The extension is therefore an inevitable choice, in some respects obliged, based on exquisite evaluations, I would just like to say technical. As far as health aspects are concerned, I would point out that the Scientific and Technical Committee, which was consulted by the Minister of Health, on the desirability of maintaining the precautionary containment measures adopted under the emergency legislation, gave an opinion on 24 July which contains some considerations which I consider to be decisive on the need for the extension of the state of emergency. Firstly, the Committee notes that although the contagion curve, as well as the impact on the national health system, has been significantly reduced compared to the most acute stage of the infection - and this is a positive fact that we must all stress because it restores and induces us to restore as much as possible the previous economic, social and cultural living conditions -, the recorded numbers document that the virus continues to circulate in the country, giving rise, in some regional areas, to outbreaks that have at the moment been promptly identified and circumscribed. The Committee also points out that the international situation remains worrying - let us not forget the international issue - since there are contagion situations in various parts of the world that do not mention improving and that the situation of the neighbouring countries - France, the Balkan countries and Spain - requires careful vigilance to prevent the recovery of the contagion from affecting Italy as well. Finally, it is the same scientific and technical committee that emphasizes in its opinion what has just been said: after the summer break, in September the resumption of frontal teaching activity in schools will have to be guaranteed, which will affect more than ten million people in total. The considerations expressed by the Committee therefore reinforce, with arguments based on scientific evidence, the reasons behind the choice of an extension of the state of emergency and the effects which it is also likely to produce. I repeat this for the benefit of maximum transparency: with this decision we pursue the objective of guaranteeing operational continuity to the structures and bodies that are working for the gradual return to normality and that continue to carry out, at the most diverse levels and in the most diverse areas, activities of assistance and support in favour of those who still suffer the effects, direct and even indirect, of a pandemic that, although - we all emphasize it - has not yet been exhausted. With this decision we agree to extend the effects of necessary measures whose effectiveness would be compromised if the state of emergency ceased. Finally, with this decision, on the basis of the precautionary principle, in correspondence with the criteria that have always guided us so far of adequacy and proportionality, we prepare ourselves to maintain a cautious level of guard, thus being able to intervene with expedition where ever we should record a worsening of the situation. I have read many things and the public debate, we know, is very lively. I can assure you that on the part of the Government, my staff and all the Ministers, there is no intention of dramatizing or feeding unjustified fears in the population. The decision to extend the state of emergency is by no means due to the desire to create an unjustified alarm situation, which is far from right. With the extension of the state of emergency we will continue to maintain in efficiency that complex of organizational measures and initiatives, operational and functional that make our country much safer, for the benefit of Italian citizens, but also of tourists who want to visit it. This is testified by the address I wanted to give since the press conference on 18 May, in which I launched phase 2. From that moment on and to an ever more determined extent I have always transmitted - and I challenge anyone to say the opposite - with the Ministers signs of maximum confidence, even by making decisive choices that, with a certain advance compared to the times initially foreshadowed, have favored the resumption of social life and the safe start of economic and commercial activities. We must run; now we must proceed quickly. Nor can the decision to extend the state of emergency be considered detrimental to our image abroad, as it is likely to fuel the conviction that Italy is not yet a safe country for tourists and workers. There is no such risk; indeed, as I have already said, the opposite is true: we guarantee a safer country for all. Italy, to which everyone recognizes the merit of having dealt very well with the most acute phase of the emergency, is currently seen by all as a safe country able to face, thanks to the necessary precautions and rigorous measures of monitoring and prevention, the full recovery in security of social and economic life. I would like to point out - but I say this very briefly - that this parliamentary debate should also follow the technical and legal profiles of the decision, because it is precisely an improper dramatization of the meaning and effects of the extension of the state of emergency - this yes - that would be likely to create a potential damage to the image of the country abroad. [[Applause]] I come to the argument that may seem more insidious. The decision to extend the state of emergency has been attributed meanings of all kinds, until it foreshadows - it was a matter of charity, isolated voices - the will to use this instrument for the sole purpose of preserving, in the Government or the President of the Council, extra-ordinam powers which could alter, all the more if exercised in the absence of legitimate assumptions, the ordinary democratic dialectic, even the relationship between executive power and legislative power. The paradoxical legal argument that it would have been more appropriate to proceed with orders from the Minister of Health, adopted pursuant to Article 32 of the law establishing the National Health System (Law No. 833 of 1978), even considering that the use of this instrument was more guaranteed (simple ordinances of the individual Minister) and more respectful of the democratic principals than the path we follow which, as you know, has involved the adoption of rules of primary rank, through the instrument of the decree-law, and consequently also the issuing of decrees of the President of the Council that, only if considered the training process now known also to all citizens, are assisted by numerous guarantees, well superior to those that assist the ordinances counted and urgent, also under the sharing of the choices, being previewed in the case of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers the involvement of the Ministers, as well as the obligation, which then was introduced specifically by Decree-Law No. 19 of 2020, to inform the Chambers in advance. This accusation is based on a clear misunderstanding. Contrary to what is often said, the extension of the state of emergency does not affect the power of the Government and the President of the Council to issue decrees. The state of emergency is the pre-condition of fact, but not the source of formal legitimacy that is found, instead, in the legislation introduced from source of primary rank. The power, in particular, to adopt and issue DPCM is at the moment related to the date of 31 July, the end of the state of emergency, not because of a formal connection between the DPCM and the state of emergency, but because this expressly provides for the source of legitimate primary rank, which could also have arranged otherwise. In other words, if the Council of Ministers adopted the decision to extend the state of emergency, the President of the Council would not be entitled to issue DPCM. The power of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers does not derive from the declaration of the state of emergency, nor would it therefore continue as a result of its extension, but is rooted - I repeat - in the legislation of primary rank. The declaration of the state of emergency is certainly a prerequisite in fact, the substantive requirement, but it could not in itself legitimize the adoption of the DPCM, if it were not accompanied by a source - I repeat - of primary enabling rank. Therefore, in order to continue to be exercised after 31 July, that power will require, however, a further regulatory intervention, or a new decree-law that will be submitted to parliamentary scrutiny for its conversion into law. By that decree, obviously, the terms contained in Decree-Law no. 19 and 33, in line with the extended time limit for the state of emergency. With successive DPCMs, then, always according to the principles of precautionary adequacy and proportionality, can be confirmed those minimum precautionary measures that are allowing us to live with the virus in the perspective of a full, though gradual, return to normality. In any case, my presence here demonstrates the highest willingness of the Government to speak with Parliament, to take into account the indications that will come from the Chambers with regard to the decision to extend the state of emergency. At the Council of Ministers which was concluded this morning, we put a mere piece of information on the agenda. We have not yet taken any decisions, out of respect for this debate that is developing. Moving, however, from the need to extend the state of emergency, after having examined in detail all the implications and the opinions acquired (there is also one of the State Notice), it has emerged the address to limit its temporal extension to the next month of October. I recall that the state of emergency was declared to the Council of Ministers, as I said at the beginning, on 31 January, at the occurrence of the first isolated cases of Covid-19 registered within a group of Chinese tourists who were present in Rome. Moreover, the Council of Ministers took that decision after, on 30 January, the World Health Organisation had adopted the declaration of international public health emergency for Covid-19. I would stress that this decision of the World Health Organisation was confirmed on 1 May. I therefore turn to the majority forces, but I also turn to the opposition forces. On these issues, I do not think that we should be thinking about pre-constitutional or opposing logics. In the light of the considerations and objective data available - I insist on this - we must be aware that the cessation of the emergency state on 31 July would lead to the arrest of the entire system of protection and prevention built in these difficult months, in the interest of the community, to the protection of goods, such as life and health, which, from the axiological point of view, are at the top of the hierarchy of constitutional values as a precondition for the enjoyment of all other rights. These were difficult choices, which led to sacrifices, but which enabled us to successfully overcome the most acute phases of the emergency. These are choices that the Government has always shared with Parliament, presenting itself before the Chambers, on the eve of every decision. I am therefore confident that on this occasion too, here in this House, with awareness and full responsibility, a convergent positive assessment of this decisive step, from which they derive significant consequences for the entire national community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u6	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u7	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin this speech by inviting everyone to maintain responsible and prudent behaviour, because the virus has not disappeared and is no less contagious. It demonstrates the situation in Belgium, where they have had to tighten up the containment measures, compared with daily cases more than tripled in the last three weeks. [[Applause]] I say that because I am speaking today in the wake of a very serious fact in my view. Yesterday, right here, in the Senate of the Republic, there were those who refused to wear the mask: I refer to Senator Salvini. Senator Salvini, with a 12 per cent shortage of presences in this Chamber, presented himself here, in the palace of the second institution of the Italian Republic [[Comments]] to make an act of becero and meaningless propaganda. [[Applause]] He comes here to send a message to Italian citizens, without any scientific basis. [[Protests]] He comes here to incite people not to wear the mask. [[Protests. Recalls of the President]] , in violation of common sense rules and rules, which must be implemented, to prevent infection from rising again. Today, in Italy, there is an obligation to wear the mask in public places indoors and there is this obligation for specific reasons. Apparently, to think that the Lombard parliamentarians know the reality of their territories and have particular sensitivity on what has meant to the Italians the Covid-19 is mere chimera [[Comments]] , but, on the other hand, how to forget [[Comments. Recalls of the President]] that it was precisely the leader of the League, at the end of February, to ask to open everything and to restart Italy. Fortunately there are those who have not listened to these heresies and it is only thanks to this Government if we managed to limit the contagions from Covid-19. This does not mean, however, being allowed to forget what has happened in the last six months: 246,286 cases in Italy, 35,112 deaths, of which 16,801 in its region. It does not mean to be allowed to forget the military vehicles loaded with coffins, which came out of Bergamo, the heartfelt appeals of the health workers, exhausted, who still fight on the front line. In these situations, irresponsibility cannot be forgiven. While in Lombardy the investigation of the judiciary is multiplying on what was done by the governor of the Attilio Fontana League, instead of inviting to be careful, in contempt of everything and everyone, there are those who allow themselves to joke, saying that it is right to give a hand to everyone and that the mask does not serve. Unfortunately, I fear that there are very few words to describe these behaviors. [[Comments. Call the president back.]] I just remember the reactions... [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u8	Please let me finish my surgery. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u9	PIRRO (M5S). Thank you, President. I merely recall the reactions of the medical world to what happened yesterday. Professor Massimo Galli, infectivologist of the Sacco hospital in Milan, an ordinary of infectious diseases of the University of Milan: I think that everything that has been said has no basis from the scientific point of view: it is an inadequate message, the one that is being launched, with elements of obvious danger. Professor Fabrizio Pregliasco, Virologo of the University of Milan, asked if we still have to use the mask, he replied: Yes, it can't be done without it. [[Applause]] I think it should become a bit like sunglasses, to wear with us and use when needed. That is, in the closed, crowded and outdoor places when the gap cannot be respected. [[Comments.]] I'm gonna stop right here. Unfortunately, the world is full of these irresponsible attitudes. Do we want to talk about Trump and Bolsonaro? In fact, we see the dramatic results of irresponsible and blind political management. [[Comments.]] The United States and Brazil are on their knees for Covid-19. In Italy fortunately there is no League to lead the Government, otherwise I dare not even imagine what situation we would live today. [[Applause]] Thanks to the courageous and responsible choices of this Government, praised by the world scientific community, starting with the World Health Organization, we have slowed down the infection, but the virus is still there and for this reason not only must we wear the mask and keep the safety distances, but also keep the guard high, for example - and I come to what we are discussing in this House - extending the state of emergency. I understand that if we start from the assumption that the virus is no longer there, even the extension of the state of emergency is not necessary. But it's a lie, unfortunately. We cannot afford mistakes, we cannot afford a second wave, with what it would achieve. We must do everything we can to ensure that this does not happen. To prolong the state of emergency is one of these things and to ignore nothing, that nothing has happened or, worse, to force the hand saying that everything is now over is an attitude that, I repeat, we cannot afford. Just as we cannot afford the citizens, because of vicious electoral propaganda, to think that extending the state of emergency translates into a new lockdown. The opposite is true: to extend the state of emergency, to give this Government the opportunity to act quickly is the only way to prevent new outbreaks from spreading so much that we are again in trouble. [[Applause]] I am thinking, for example, of the blocking of flights from countries that still have thousands of contagions. And yet we have examples around here of what can happen. [[Happy comments. Call the president back.]] I am thinking of Belgium, which I have already mentioned, or Catalonia. And tell me, then (I have only one question, rhetoric): you who reject even the most banal rules of coexistence with the virus, to tell lies about the use of the mask, not to prolong the state of emergency giving the government the opportunity to act in time, pretending that the virus has been defeated and doing electoral propaganda, exploiting fears, even legitimate, that you will tell the entrepreneurs, bartenders, restaurateurs, workers all when you have brought us back into a serious situation? How would you explain that, out of fear and banal lightness, the number of deaths has risen again? How would you do that? Like your Legist governor Fontana who, in order not to take responsibility, blamed everyone for what happened in Lombardy without even apologizing for that dramatic order that sent the cases of Covid-19 to the RSA, with dramatic results... [[Applause. Protests. Call the president back.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u10	Please let my colleague finish. Everybody sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u11	Conclude, please, Senator Pirro. PIRRO (M5S). I was saying, with the dramatic results we've all seen. Well, this government will never behave like this, luckily for us and for all Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u12	Senator Pirro, I would like to say that, on yesterday's episode, to which you referred, the quaestor senators are making an inquiry; therefore, I wanted to answer what was your question. (Brusio). Colleagues, I would ask you to stay in your place because there is the problem - it is true - of masks, but there is also the problem of assemblies. So, if each senator takes the place that senators The quaestors have attributed it to him, we can conduct a debate a little more calmly. Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u13	Mr President, frankly, all this confusion and vehemence, even in the previous speech, make me think and even a little worry. I was somewhat concerned about the President-in-Office of the Council, who has repeatedly told us that any failure to confirm the state of emergency would in some way cause a whole series of measures to lapse. He repeated this to us at the beginning and in the middle of the intervention, and rightly, by addressing the majority and also the opposition, he specified this at the end of the intervention. He wanted, therefore, to remind us once again that the failure to extend the state of emergency would cause a series of extraordinary measures to lapse which have been taken in the meantime. President Conte, I must say that I always appreciate the work of those who are particularly interested in public health, and I admit that Italy, as you have mentioned, has perhaps moved better than some European countries in the field of health as regards, precisely, the attention to the spread of the virus. However, it has not gone unnoticed that, compared to all that is now mandatory in phase 3 (but already in phase 2) i.e. the use of personal protective devices, the distance between people, the attention needed to the attendance of public places, I - and for this I was dilated - at the beginning of the pandemic I said exactly what you say today: that you need attention, that the virus is still under control, that there are outbreaks that have been promptly isolated, but that you need to pay the right attention. I believe that the problem is the origin of the pandemic, when Italy was not ready to avoid a mandatory lockdown for all, which did not happen even in most European states, which instead had immediately made personal protective equipment available to families and businesses. Let's not forget that. You will remember the dozens and dozens of emails I sent during the lockdown period regarding the search for personal protective devices and also the attention with which we sent these requests to avoid unnecessary and wrong polemics, but they wanted to somehow urge the head of civil protection first and then, immediately afterwards, Commissioner Arcuri. Unfortunately, in fact, a vision; you want the state of emergency to have arrived between head and neck, you want the increase in cases to be exponentially growing. It's okay, the problem is that we weren't ready and today go again to extend the state of emergency throughout the national territory, when she - and I appreciated it - wanted to point out that there are still cases today, but that have been promptly isolated, frankly leaves me very worried, unless you or she know something more than we have been told. Since you wanted to make it clear that your presence here is an important act and signal to Parliament - I do not want to remind you that it is a necessary fact for the Government to come to Parliament, particularly at this time - if there are some things that you have not told us, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, please tell us. Otherwise, with the premises made and with the opportunity of the Government to issue urgent measures, with a simple convocation of two ministers besides you, I believe one, since the Council of Ministers is not subject to the legal number, you can issue decrees-laws at every stage. I'm in the first legislature, like you, even though you're in a different position than I am. I also criticized the center-right governments who issued decrees. I must say that, pandemic or not pandemic, in these two years of decree-laws we have seen them every day. So why can we not identify all the measures that would be completed with regard to the emergency period within a decree-law that will keep them in force for any need? Why don't we do it? It is no wonder that there are rumors that this further extension - but I do not want to believe it - could somehow secure its majority, or the duration of the government. Some bad speakers might still think that as regional local elections and referendums are convened for 20 and 21 September, do you want to see that since the state of emergency is also extended to 31 October, there might also be a sudden need to suspend or re-move them over time? It's all worries and indiscretions that if we told each other what it was like, they'd probably get away. However, these problems are not only the thought of Senator Mallegni or of the Forza Italia Group, but they are located throughout the constitutional arc. You are asking Parliament today for an act of responsibility; Parliament has done so since the first time it has made itself available, in particular in the opposition groups, to give credit to its Government and tomorrow there will be an act on budgetary deviation, which will have to further make this branch of Parliament responsible, in particular, in offering the Government and Italy the opportunity to go and recover additional resources, because the resources have been lacking. I, who am an entrepreneur in the tourism sector, give you my word of honor: there are our employees and collaborators who have not been lucky enough to be reinstated (because the drop in work ranges from 50% to 75% in that sector), who have not yet received the integration fund. [[Applause]] That's the truth. I must then tell my customers in the broad sense, that is to say to those who have to spend and invest in our country to try to support the gross domestic product, to continue to do so, but with the sword of Damocles of a further period of emergency that makes no one serene. Investment? We cannot ask for further investment. The groceries? We cannot ask for additional expenditure. Of the two, one: if you ask us for this commitment - and you do it with responsibility and a sense of duty - we want you to believe it, but at the same time you must ensure that all those around you (of course not to you, but to the Government) act as a result, so that the supplementary funds are paid, that there is support for companies and that the banks offer liquidity. [[Applause]] In the face of this demand for responsibility, there must also be the responsibility of all actors in the field. You must guarantee this and you must ensure that those who work outside the Government, but have responsibility for the Italians, act consecutively. Only in this case will you have our consent. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u14	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u15	Mr President, Senators and Senators, esteemed President Conte, you have been very clear and detailed, as you are responsible for. To define his modus operandi I want to use some terms that have guided every step of his: balance, strength, tenacity and caution. I also remember her philological approach, what she synthesized with the term "humanism," referring to our greatest history: humanism as a European rebirth after dark decades. However, it is the term "balance" that I consider most important and characterizing its action, that balance that in all natural phenomena is the result of great forces, just as our most difficult decisions often arise, the result of opposing reflections and considerations. No one in December 2019, when the Wuhan Health Commission reported to the World Health Organization a cluster of pneumonia cases with unknown aetiology, could have imagined what would happen in Italy shortly after, having had to record, to date, more than 35,000 deaths in a few months. We could never have imagined 600,000 deaths and 15 million confirmed cases worldwide. We were aware that we were called to lead our country in a difficult situation, but we did not expect the stormy era we are going through. Those who are a little older still remember the stories of our ancestors, those of the Spanish flu. Today our lifestyles have been very different since then, but with regard to viral attacks the result, unfortunately, does not change. We have been called upon to handle one of the most difficult situations since the post-war period. Any preventive action, which we must all continue to implement, is still useful and indispensable. It is precisely his balance and tenacity, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that have led us today to take great steps towards a Europe which is certainly more supportive. The great changes in history have unfortunately taken place after sacrifices, including human lives; but in this singular tenure humanity is on the one hand and this should be clear to all. I'm a little off the subject, but I dare. A healthy leap of pride should now also guide those structural reforms that are spoken of from various lustres, so that Italy can take a new course. The next few months will not be easy for anyone, but politics will be able to regain a certainly more significant role: on the one hand it will have to affect the health protection of all, women and men of this Europe, on the other it will have to protect the work of everyone and the companies that create it. In this game, finance, which has been called creative, will have to give way. I repeat that we will all have to do our part and - I use a no longer fashionable term - we will all have to do our duty. I would like to add that we will have to think a lot about the investments that will be planned. I am thinking of investments in infrastructure that are not only fleeting, but also useful in creating future development. I briefly mention, for example, an extraordinary maintenance plan for each infrastructure. In prey to the costume of disposable use, more and more dominant, and economic profit, often a unique priority, we have now abandoned the very concept of the term maintenance, that already defined by many regulatory texts simply ordinary. I am thinking of an investment plan for our land, in our agro-food sector, an Italian brand of planetary prestige. I am thinking of new irrigation networks, to help our farms save and protect valuable water resources. I think of the protection of the sea nostrum, of our landscapes and of every vestige that our ancestors have left us, as rich heirs that we are, often even unaware. These resources are all unique and not delocalizable. Beauty will save the world, if it is accompanied by common sense; and the Italian people have always shown that they have so much common sense, even at this stage. It will be necessary to have confidence, that of others, capable of making a more authentic sense also of the public thing. I should like to end by expressing my wish in everyday life: good work, Mr President, and good work for all of us, even in the difficult situation of emergency. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Centinario. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u17	Mr President, Mr Conte, first of all you come to ask us to vote on a state of emergency at a time when, in our country, there have been no deaths for four days and in five regions there is no new case of Covid. It seems a little inappropriate about the times. He comes to ask us about the state of emergency in a Parliament where fear prevails, but not fear as a mask: fear from elections. [[Applause]] The party of the cadrega is afraid of going to vote and would therefore vote for anything at this time, Mr President. You come to propose a state of emergency to silence the Italians, as you are trying to do this majority with myself, because I am trying to speak and they are already starting to protest. [[Comments]] A state of emergency not provided for in the Constitution, Mr President, because the Constitution does not provide for the state of emergency. I remember my professor of constitutional law, Professor Bettinelli, once told me: If you want to have the arrogance and authority to represent the Italians, you need to know the Constitution. And the Constitution tells us exactly that the state of emergency is not foreseen; alas for you we are not in France, alas for you we are not in other European countries, but we are in Italy [[Applause]] , where the Constitution allows you, in cases of necessity and urgency, to use the instrument of the decree-law. So, unfortunately, you are against the Constitution of the Italian Republic. [[Applause]] What has the state of emergency produced so far? You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in one of the first interviews, when we were all really so afraid, told us one thing, which I believed, because I was at home and I was watching you in one of the many television appearances, in which you almost looked like the President of the Republic, since I saw you more than President Mattarella: no one will be left behind and no one will fail. He lied, not to Parliament, but to the Italians. [[Applause]] , because yesterday the Istat told us that by December 31 it is estimated that a million Italian citizens will be home without work; and not tell the bad Centinario of the League or those who propose nothing, but the Istat, who tells you that you lied to the Italians. [[Applause.]] So, Mr. President, what's your emergency status for? To silence the dissent and to allow the undersecretary Castelli to insult, without possibility of contradictory, thousands of Italian restaurateurs and baristas. [[Applause. Comments.]] His state of emergency serves Minister Azzolina, who, without a real project on the school, humiliates families and teachers with crazy and unrealizable projects: first the shifts, then the doctor, not to mention the wheelchairs, like self-crash, that he had planned to propose to the Italian school. It serves Minister De Micheli, who says that to get to Liguria there is no traffic: well, I confirm that from Pavia to Spotorno it took us six hours - I emphasize - while normally it takes an hour and forty-five minutes. The problem is that Minister De Micheli doesn't find the traffic, because he may be riding a helicopter. [[Applause.]] It serves Minister Bellanova, who with the clown of crying had to save first 600,000, then 300,000 migrants in our country, who have now become 17,000, without thinking about the Italians who could work in agriculture: clowned on clowns. [[Applause.]] The problem is that Mr Bellanova, Mr President, has been denied by all the trade associations in agriculture, none excluded. It is for Mr Franceschini, who, even though he has been Minister of Tourism Cultural Heritage and Activities in the last parliamentary term, has not yet understood that Cuba's tourism accounts for 13% of GDP, which is so much, Mr President. Zero ideas and zero plans, just promises and teased. All the tourism associations, none excluded, are contesting Minister Franceschini: the problem is that all these people would like to go to the streets, but they cannot, because, given and given that there is a state of emergency, they cannot protest, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and they cannot make you understand what you really think of yourself. Or it is for you, Mr President, to keep Parliament on a leash and prevent the Italians from coming to the streets and making them understand, as I have told you, that your time is finally over. [[Applause.]] The problem is that we look like those authoritarian states in which no one should afford to criticize the maneuverer: no one should point out the great fraud of these months, the great game of the goose that had only one goal, namely the visibility of the Premier. First phase: press conferences to make Italians believe that the majority were strong and cohesive and that they would make it on their own. First game of the goose: he was about to get to the start, but he decided to make a new press conference, to make believe that the government would reach out to opposition; a falsehood denied in these parliamentary classrooms. Third game of the goose, phase three: press conference to make the people believe that we would come out of the emergency thanks to the essays appointed by the government. They don't know what they're doing and what they've done. Fourth phase: embarrassing scenery of the general states at Villa Pamphili, with a press conference, to fill the heads of the Italians. And now, since the precedents didn't lead to anything, because people are now wondering what you're going to do now, the fifth stage comes, in which our superhero wears the shoes of the international statesman who imposes his ideas on Europe and brings home a lot of money. When you don't know, but he'll bring home a lot of money. Meanwhile, in Italy, companies close and families are increasingly in difficulty. Do you know, Mr President, that, from an investigation carried out by the large retailers, the average receipt is getting lower and lower? And the lower and lower average receipt in large distribution means that families no longer have money, that money isn't there. The promises are not enough and what is said on television is not enough; it is not enough for you to come here to the parliamentary classrooms and continue to tell us what we are going to do. What did you do? What images remain of these months of Covid, in addition to those of the coffins of Bergamo, that we all remember and do not need to connect the memories and remind us what happened in Bergamo? There remains the image of these days and of the past weeks: the Forces of Order that chase a person who on a beach was sunbathing at a time of lockdown. Ridiculous, a person chased by all the Forces of Order. There remains the image of the Alpines in Ventimiglia in an anti-riot setting - they even had the machine gun - on the beach to maintain the safe distance. As you go to the tourists to keep the distance safe, we still have the image, photos and videos of migrants fleeing from the reception centers. Strong with Italians, good with who should be controlled in our country instead. [[Applause. Comments.]] Mr President, we still have the image of migrants dressed as tourists - I repeat, migrants dressed as tourists - who are welcomed, with their mobile phones, cigarette in their mouths and their poodle on a leash. [[Applause.]] You're embarrassing, these are the tourists you like. You like these tourists so much that you have blocked the accesses of high-spending tourists, the real ones, that they would bring money to our country, and instead to tourist areas, such as Fiuggi (in a beautiful hotel in Fiuggi), there are sixty migrants. This is how you treat the spa areas of our country. [[Applause]] ; this is the way you treat tourism in our country. This, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is Italy which you like. Mr President, our advice is to listen to the words of your Minister Hope, who has given the line you must follow. Three rules: use of masks, distance of one meter, frequent washing of hands. You don't need the state of emergency; your minister told you what to do; you don't need the state of emergency to allow you to keep the fall. Full powers - because these are the full powers - without going through the ballot box do not stop the Covid, but they only serve to make you comfortable on the cadrega. [[Applause.]] Mr President, I should like to end with a personal wish. Full powers until October 31st, my birthday. I will therefore do anything to give me a gift: the fall of this Government, which exploited the pandemic to make Italians believe that power is stolen from the people without respect and shame. Mr. President Alberti Casellati, before I finish, I'd like to reply to what my colleague, Senator Pirro, said. He said to follow science. Well, I'm the one who talks about chemical trails and says that the Earth is flat and I don't take it. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u18	Senator Pirro. Senator Pirro, I'm taking it back. [[Comments.]] Senator Giuseppe Pisani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so. [[Comments. The words "spoken goose" are distinguished.]] There's some gatherings. Senators are here for this. [[Comments.]] Please, there are Senators Quaestors who maintain order in this House. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u20	Senator Bressa, for what? I gave the floor to Senator Giuseppe Pisani.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u21	BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. On the order of business while this... BRESSA (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) is already open). Mr President, there has been a fact which cannot go through silently. From the benches of the League it has emerged in a very clear way - I have heard it and I am on the opposite side - the definition of Senator Pirro's speaking goose. You can't let that happen. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u22	Senator Bressa, as when one speaks outside the microphone, it doesn't all come to the presidency, we will check from the report. If these words have been spoken, it seems to me that they are really out of line. However, I must warn you, ladies and gentlemen, that nothing can be heard from the benches of the Presidency if one speaks outside the microphone. You often get upset, but your protests don't come here. I'd invite the senators. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u23	Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor in this House to respond to certain statements and also to certain behaviours by some of the opposition forces regarding the decision taken by the Government with the request for an extension of the state of emergency, which I believe is absolutely consistent with the state of the present situation and based on principles of precaution, prudence and priority to the protection of the lives and health of citizens. It is good to point out and reiterate that the outbreak from Covid-19 cannot be considered outdated and archived, this is well known. We are certainly far from the numbers of the past months and, although in some regions - as has been said - there have been no new cases, it is also true that the Rt index in other regions is still higher than unity. It is true, however, that the epidemiological trend in Italy today seems rather reassuring and this thanks to the correct and adequate measures adopted by the Government, which is why at the moment there are no particular criticalities. This, however, must not cause us to lower our guard and does not mean that this Coronavirus has been eradicated and that it is a distant enemy, anything else; it is always present and close and this is demonstrated by the many outbreaks that occur today in many Italian regions. The virus is still circulating and this can be compared to the situation of a fire that has been tamed, but that is not yet completely extinguished because, as fire under the ashes, new clusters continue to emerge, mainly affecting today younger individuals than those hit in the previous months, as well as new clusters are constituted because of the so-called import cases, which last need an even more stringent and constant activity of control and prevention by the institutions, with particular regard to the migration phenomenon. What happens in other parts of the world shows that the virus is everywhere still present and that, if it is not quickly arginated, the infection is likely to grow and accelerate. Just think of the dramatic situation of some countries in South America, such as Brazil, with over a million cases or, again, 4.4 million people infected in the United States or 1.5 million infected in India. The difficulty of keeping the pandemic under control has led to the exclusion of the United States, as well as of Russia and Brazil, from the list of countries whose citizens will be able to return to the European Union from 1 July, i.e. since the external borders of the EU were reopened. Hans Kluge, Regional Director for Europe of the World Health Organisation, expressed his concern: "Last week in Europe there was an increase in the weekly cases of Covid-19 for the first time in months." In 11 countries in particular, he said: "The accelerated transmission has led to a very significant recovery which, if not controlled, would push health systems back to the brink of the crisis." In a note to the press, Kluge warned that we must prepare for the autumn, when Covid-19 may also encounter seasonal flu, pneumonia and other diseases, because in the end the virus still circulates actively in our communities and there is still no effective treatment or vaccine. We must not be found unprepared if the contagion were to climb up the curve next autumn. Prudence, respect for hygiene and physical distance rules, the use of the mask are also to be maintained in open spaces and more caution will be needed at the end of summer, when opportunities to stay outside will decrease and the possibilities of closeness and physical contact will increase. Caution, prudence, respect for the rules for the protection of our health and our lives must be the watchwords. It is also what we owe to those who have sacrificed their lives to protect that of others, to medical and health personnel above all, but also to all those workers and professionals who have worked so that we can continue to take advantage of the basic necessities during the lockdown period. The fact that in different countries but with climatic and social conditions very similar to ours like Spain and Portugal, the virus has quickly resumed to circulate in recent weeks, must make us reflect on the ease with which we could find ourselves again in an emergency condition, with the consequent need to take timely and appropriate decisions. There is no doubt that the cooperation pact between the Government and Parliament must be strengthened, as you are rightly doing, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, but it is also true that it is necessary to provide the Government with the means to take timely and appropriate measures in the circumstances of a possible and non-excusable resumption of the epidemic. We believe it is right and proper to support a government that places the protection of the lives and health of its citizens at the heart of its decisions. This line of behavior is what has saved thousands of lives and it is on this line of government that we believe it is right to continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u25	Mr President, we in the Fratelli d'Italia Group are very concerned about how the serious situation in our country is being dealt with in this House too. We are talking above all about the serious, very serious social, economic and productive situation that Italy pays more than other countries. You see, Mr President, the majority is being conducted reluctantly in this measure extending the state of emergency, to the extent that up to now three members of your reference party, namely the 5 Stars, and no other of the majority, have spoken, which of course will take the floor later to confirm that they are also following you on this occasion for obvious reasons. The representatives of the 5 Stars - and we welcome this - in justifying the state of emergency refer to science and vaccines, after having long denied the validity of science and the effectiveness of vaccines. [[Applause]] The fact that we do not spend a word but rather justify, after exalting direct democracy, the Rousseau platform and the referendums on every small decision they should have taken, the suspension of democratic rules and citizens' rights by decree of the President-in-Office of the Council makes us think. We are concerned about their conversion on the road to Damascus and all of us Italians are asking for their motivation. I am referring to the very fact, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that in his incipit he said that, even if there is no legal constraint, he believes it is necessary to share it with Parliament. The fact that, in the absence of a legal constraint, six months after the declaration of the state of emergency, by decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and by decrees-laws of which Parliament has only seen the photocopies approved within a few hours, considers that this concession is due to concern us with its posture towards Parliament. In the same way, we are concerned that you should advise Parliament on how the debate should be conducted. Sorry if I point this out to you, but you said that the debate should stick to technical judgements and that alone. You say: to some extent I have allowed you to be here today, but I recommend, in the Italian Parliament, six months after the emergency, that you only talk about legal and technical constraints. I believe that this must concern everyone, all the more so in the face - I tell you - of the unawareness with which you face the real, dramatic, global transformations that the fight against the coronavirus pandemic has caused in Italy, in Europe and in the world, with a sudden acceleration of history for which happened in a few weeks what probably would have happened over years or decades. You deal with this with decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers and legal clichés to suspend constitutional freedoms without realizing the phenomenon before us and that it would need other awareness, other responsibility and other determination. We have had an acceleration of history, which for example in the field of work and society has resulted in the fact that everyone today speaks and uses smart working, with problems of technological innovation and expulsion from the labour market: already half a million citizens have been expelled and maybe two or three million will not have work when the dismissals stop. The emergency has accelerated, and in ten days what would certainly have happened in ten years, and you go ahead with the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers on masks. For the acceleration of this historical phenomenon, Europe has taken decisions over twenty days that it would have taken anyway, but over the next twenty years: I am thinking of the suspension of the constraints of the Stability Pact, of the involvement in the European debt, of the re-emergence of the States in relation to the Council, the Commission and Parliament; things that would certainly have happened, but over years, decades and instead have happened over days. There has been an acceleration of a global phenomenon, the ongoing conflict between China and the United States, with India taking sides with the United States against China, in a global conflict that would certainly have taken place over the next few years (there were all the warnings and only you did not understand it when you signed the document on the new Silk Road) or perhaps more, but it has happened over days and is changing the planet's structure. You react to this by proposing an extension of the state of emergency for another three months on masks or social distancing. I am very concerned about how you do not realize what Italy will face in the face of the global crisis of which we are the epicenter. This is demonstrated by the fact that every estimate for Italy is every day more serious. The rating agency the other day told us that this year we will suffer a decrease of 9% or maybe 13%, we will be the country that will pay the most in Europe, but it told us another thing even more serious, that the Italian growth until 2025 will be zero - I repeat, until 2025 - and you are mortgaged the country for the next thirty years. So today - or rather tomorrow - we will have another budgetary deviation of another 25 billion (and we are already at 100 billion more in direct debt) and we are putting forward another debt to Europe without in the meantime preparing anything. Coming to the conclusion, not only our children but even our grandchildren will end up paying these debts in 2050, but in the face of this we are not giving them the tools to be able to relaunch the economy, produce and therefore to some extent take advantage of the debt that we are creating. Unfortunately, this unawareness, this superficiality worries us. Forty years have passed since the serious and terrifying year of massacres, 1980 and soon we will also have to commemorate the 2nd of August, the day of the Bologna massacre. And then I remember Ustica. How much awareness there was in that ruling class, that it did not need to apply a state of emergency in order to face a dramatic, that yes, condition of attack at the heart of our country. I do not find in you this awareness, this responsibility, this stature. Unfortunately, I can't find her in this Senate, and that's really what we're most concerned about. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u26	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u27	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the request you are making to this House today is no small matter. The extension of the state of emergency until 15 October is not a simple formal step. It is a question of containing fundamental freedoms, on the one hand, and rights, such as health rights, on the other hand, with the need for government action to be targeted, fast and timely if there is to be a recurrence of the virus. In the period of the emergency Italy Viva was very strict on the use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. But you, Mr Conte, have accepted our remarks - we must acknowledge that. This is because, even in the emergency, it is essential to balance the need for the decision to be swift and effective and to respect those constitutional prerogatives which the Constitution entrusts to Parliament (repeat, to Parliament), which must always be central, because this is where popular sovereignty is expressed. The medical emergency has brought the country to its knees, especially the North. We cried 35,000 dead and the image of the coffins of Bergamo will forever remain indelible in our minds. Today, however, the health emergency is over. Of course, we need to respect security and budget measures, wear masks, but intensive therapies are fortunately empty and we have also learned to effectively isolate infections. On the contrary, there are other emergencies that are likely to explode in the autumn, first of all the economic one. Europe has played its part with the recovery fund, but now we need to draw up a precise plan to help the country to recover, support companies in distress, the tourism sector and manufacturing, protect our excellences, protect our restaurateurs, traders. Basically, we have to quit assistantism. In May more pensions were paid than salaries. A country that does not intervene in support of workers is a country without a future. Enough, then, with the integration cases and let's focus more on decontribution, as did the jobs act. We invest in great works and events. The North, which has been particularly affected by the virus, as we know, will host, for example, the Winter Olympics of 2026. An event that will certainly bring many visitors, but also infrastructures that will remain to the affected Regions (Veneto, Lombardy and Trentino) and that will help to give breath to these Regions, which are the most affected by the virus. Then there is an equally pressing emergency, I say it first of all as a mother: the educational one, which too often risks going into the background. The school, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. When we asked to reopen the schools in May, the Italians took us for fools, but then they gave us reason. Reopening schools and allowing lessons to resume live in September is crucial for our kids. The school has the function of training our children and making them aware of them. It is thanks to education that social inequality is being combated, yet it is still too undervalued by politics. As a candidate for president of the Veneto Region, I tried to involve the other presidential candidates in a bipartisan way and, I regret to say, their silence has shown the absolute lack of interest on their part, towards the children and families of Veneto. Families, all families, have already paid too much in terms of sacrifices and difficulties; children and children have been put in a condition of unacceptable uncertainty and precariousness, not to mention the fact that, by closing schools, they are often prevented from practicing basic sport. Many associations, in fact, use the gyms of school complexes. Sport is no less important than cultural training, which must be guaranteed to our children. Then I say: let us not hide behind the fear of contagion. To start again you need to have confidence! Some time ago, British pediatricians wrote an open letter, which I fully share, highlighting how keeping schools closed will leave indelible damage to children. Therefore, Mr President, it is right to extend the state of emergency until 15 October, but we are asking for immediate intervention on schools. It is true that the Minister [[The microphone automatically switches off]] .. the reopening in September: it's a sacrosanct decision, but it's not enough. Italy Viva finds it unacceptable that the schools, after being stopped for six months, reopen in September, and then be closed again, a few days later, to establish the polling stations. Our children and our families cannot once again be destabilized. That is why - and I shall conclude - I have written to Mr Lamorgese that other places to vote should be identified. I have requested that a mapping of these places be carried out by 14 August and by the end of August the funding be paid to the municipalities for the expenses related to the new electoral cards and for the information to citizens on the new offices. As Nelson Mandela said, education is the most powerful weapon you can use to change the world. Mr President, we will be at your side, but do not forget our children and our families. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u28	Senator Parrini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u29	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to say at once that, in the view of the Democratic Party, the proposal that is being addressed to us today for a limited extension of the state of emergency is a technically necessary decision, for the reasons you have said, and a politically wise decision, because going in this direction means wanting to make the citizens' interest. Making Italian citizens' interests and defending the country should always be our main concern. I rarely raise my voices, but I have to say that when, in the intervention of an opposition colleague, who is very focused on the tone of the meeting, I have heard that the reason for coming to Parliament - now to the Senate and then to the House - to ask for an extension of the state of emergency is the search for full powers and a way to silence dissent, I have felt outrage, a real outrage, because it is not possible to put things on this level. I would like to say to my colleague Centinario, who delighted us with this theory, that perhaps it is the forces with which he goes hand in hand in Europe that, in their countries, try to silence dissent and seek full powers. [[Applause]] We do not think it is appropriate to make controversy on such a serious occasion, but a few points on the i must be put. I believe that, in a situation such as the one we are facing, those who represent the institutions have a duty, as you said very well, in your statement this morning, the Minister of Health, whom I thank for his work and for his attention to the prerogatives of Parliament, which has never been lacking: on the essential rules - and there are now few essential rules that we must respect and are remembered every day - we should all be united. Especially those representing the institutions should be united. It is not possible that we divide ourselves precisely on the essential and it is not possible that those in institutions always have the temptation to set a bad example, to put in place diseducational attitudes, to preach things that run counter to the rules. Yesterday in the Senate there was no good thing, because you never endorse a negational conference on Covid-19 when you are in a situation like the one we are in. [[Applause]] Those in the institutions should be united, not only in defending the essential rules, but also in recommending to citizens not to question their justification, in rebuking those who go in the opposite direction and in deploring those images that unfortunately we see in the news and in the newspapers, which show assemblies that are not good, bad mood, too many young people who seem to take too lightly the danger that we run and that put in place behaviors that must be stigmatized. We must not smooth the hair of those who want to throw what we have lived behind us, in the name of an irresponsibility without head or tail. We must be extremely strict. The reflection we are making on the state of emergency should serve this particular purpose. I do not think it is convincing - I want to be extremely clear - the argument of those who say that we should not extend the state of emergency because we are no longer in emergency. This is a wrong statement; it is a statement that has no basis, because it is by no means true that we are out of the emergency. I believe that we are in a different period of the emergency, in a less acute phase of the emergency, but it is undeniable that we are still taking risks today, which place us in the need to use instruments that are not part of ordinaryity. It is therefore useless to play with words: if the institutions need to activate instruments that are not part of the ordinary, it is right that they should propose to Parliament, by comparing themselves with those in Parliament, an extension of the state of emergency, which will enable us to decide properly and as quickly as necessary. We have a duty towards the many people who have helped us face the virus and the memory of those who have lost their lives because of the virus: never minimize the dangers and risks that Italy runs, even today, even if the sick are 12,000 and no more tens and tens of thousands. In fact, the sick are 16 million in the world and we have seen that, where the institutions have made wrong decisions and have given wrong examples, the situation tends to get out of control. We cannot carry out behaviors that are likely to lead to the contagion curve, because we would do something contrary to the interests of our fellow citizens and very dangerous to their health. Obviously, when we say that we are in a different stage of the emergency, we say something that has a precise weight and meaning. We are saying, that we are no longer in the condition in which we were in March, April or May; therefore, our being in the emergency and our decision in the emergency must also have characteristics that are compatible with the different phase we are experiencing. We probably need measures that have a more limited, more focused, less indiscriminate temporal and territorial dimension. We need the proportionality of the decisions we take really to become one of the major concerns that we have in deciding, in drafting the measures, in studying what is needed to do everything that is needed at the moment. From this point of view - and I conclude - Parliament's involvement is very important. I believe that it is something useful for the Government, of precious for those who are called to decide in emergency and out of order, of duty towards an institution that represents the Italian people and that has the right and the duty to provide contributions of reflection and proposal that enrich those who give them and - I think - even those who receive them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u30	Senator Fregolent is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u31	President Conte, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are once again here, for the umpteenth time, to deal with a decision which has already been taken. I have to say, Mr President, that I have sincerely found it untasteful that you also tell us what the issue of minorities should be, rather than understanding that actually Parliament, this seat, is the place of confrontation, although we know that what minorities think and say to you does not matter. If, then, the contribution comes from the League, as a naughty child does exactly the opposite of what is told. [[Applause.]] President, I am sorry for you, but we are with the Italians. In this place we will continue to tell the Italians the truth and continue to give voice to two truths, even if it is uncomfortable for you. You resolved the state of emergency on 31 January, in spite of the Italian Constitution, because, unlike the French, Hungarian and Spanish Charters, the state of emergency is not foreseen in our Constitution. You have done your best to justify the state of emergency, because otherwise certain measures would fall rather than others, but in reality you should admit that there have been other tough periods in the Italian Republic and that someone else, unlike you, has used the legal instruments currently in place to cope with those emergencies. There was lockdown and surely the dead - we all remember - but his behavior did not go unnoticed by the various lawyers. And here the president of the consulta - in the report of the activity of the year 2019 - in some passages says: Our Constitution does not provide for a special right for the state of emergency (...) In the Constitutional Charter there are no clauses on the suspension of fundamental rights to be activated in exceptional times or forecasts that in times of crisis allow alterations in the set-up of powers. And again: "The Republic has gone through various emergency and crisis situations (...) that have been addressed without ever suspending the constitutional order, but recognizing within it the instruments suitable to modulate the constitutional principles according to the specific contingency: necessity, proportionality, balance, justice and temporaryity (...)." Then, President Count, I exercise more for myself than for you, because you certainly know and know well what constitutional rights you have violated, beginning with freedom of movement, freedom of assembly, the right to profess your religious faith in places of worship, the right to study, freedom of economic initiative, freedom of expression of thought and, above all, personal freedom. Mr President, you promulgated the state of emergency on 31 January, and then I wonder why the next day you did not also approve a pandemic plan. [[Applause]] to send to the Regions? Why didn't you send to the Regions the masks, personal protective equipment (DPI), reagents and you let twenty days pass - the first case in Lombardy in fact happened on February 20 - without having any kind of plan, any kind of serious indication to give to our Regions? Now come here and ask for an extension of another three months, now that things seem to be a little bit better. Then what is it that you are not telling us to justify this extension? It is not enough for you to come here and say that from a legal point of view you hang yourself, otherwise the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers do not find the root, they fall, they are not covered. This means that otherwise you have mistaken the legal instrument. And if you have not, as you say, made a mistake, what are the reasons for the request for an extension? Either you have serious information, which you are not explaining to this Parliament, or you have other purposes, perhaps to justify or mitigate your participation in an electoral campaign that perhaps might put you in a bit of trouble. [[Applause.]] Sometimes bad thinking gets right. So, after six months from 31 January, we as a League asked Minister Hope last week if there was a pandemic plan; today you have or plan to dump on the governors any kind of responsibility, how is the use of this Government? We have all understood that the objective is to say that regional health is not working, we are recentralising; we are throwing away a reform that lasted forty years because we have to recentralise everything. We are not, however, here, Mr President. We're asking you if you have a plan to handle the epidemic. [[Applause]] , to manage the micro outbreaks, as if they were red microzones. Are you planning an information campaign? Honestly, you can't see anything. You owe these answers not only to Parliament, but to all Italians. The regions tell us that they have enough material for the ordinary and not to possibly face a second wave. But you have Arcuri. And you don't know what the companies you've converted are doing right now, whether they're making masks or whatever. It is not known whether Arcuri is committed to civil protection and the Covid-19 problem, or whether he is taking care of the wheelchairs for Minister Azzolina. [[Applause]] So, Mr President, our people's lawyer, it is not enough to appear, but it is also necessary to have substance, and here lies a question from the League asking what your positions are with regard to the protection of borders, both air and land and sea. Minister Hope has signed the order. We learn every day that there are several outbreaks everywhere - as you said - in Bavaria, Bosnia, Croatia, Poland and Romania. We would then like to know if you intend to have the controls done before people from those countries arrive on Italian territory. Otherwise, if you have to quarantine, I doubt that someone will come to stay and spend their summer holidays in Italy. As for your policy on the control of maritime borders, I would say that the issue is quite obvious: you are going to take people everywhere, from the Libyan coasts to the Maltese ones. I remember that, about a year ago, you came here to say, in triumphalistic tones, that you had signed an agreement with Malta, doing what former Minister Salvini had not done and obtaining the rotation of the ports, the distribution of migrants and the sanctions for those who did not take migrants. Where's that deal? [[Applause]] In fact, that agreement seems to have been a bluff and the triumphalist tones are the same that you, President Conte, used last week in this House. For the good of the Italians, I hope that his enthusiasm for the recovery fund is not a bluff, even if some doubt comes to me because we are already starting to talk about MES again. President Conte, take more care of the health of the Italians. Prevent foreigners from fleeing reception centres; take care of the health of Italians. Covid's people are sick, and you need to secure our fellow citizens and our fragile economy. You cannot hide behind the state of emergency to limit constitutional freedoms. President Conte, the Italians will vote and your government, born in the rooms of the palaces, will go home. And that day you will begin to pay for all the damage you caused. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u32	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u33	Mr President, President of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, when the pandemic fell like a tsunami on our country nobody was prepared: we were helpless in front of the monster and we all played our part. Italians have shown that they are up to the challenge and can contain this invisible enemy by taking all the precautions of the case: masks, distance and continuous use of disinfectants. We have known this virus, we have studied it, we have observed it and, unfortunately, we have also immediately. We learned symptoms, signs and words to many of us unknown; someone discovered the saturometer, dyspnoea and CPAP. Today, however, the situation is not that of a few months ago and, if words still make sense, we start from what you are asking here today: what does emergency mean? If we scroll through the Devoto-Oli vocabulary, the word "emergency" corresponds to the definition of "unexpected circumstance," accident. What is unpredictable today if we are perfectly able to trace infections and cure them, we know the disease, we have numerous beds of intensive care built ad hoc and unused and for months we also know the statistical probabilities of the so-called wave of return? I will never be a negator; I will never say that the masks no longer serve, even for my previous life. In fact, I was the first to call idiots, perhaps wrong, those guys who, after the lockdown, threw themselves in the street risking the lives of others, with still - unfortunately - our loved ones to cry. The government, however, looks at the straw and not the beam, because it sends people in camouflage suit to the beaches to control the couples that sunbathe, while in the meantime hundreds of migrants, of which many positive Covid, run away from the CARA, not to mention the continuous landings on the poor Lampedusa now exhausted. [[Applause]] I would like to know, President Conte, what happened to the much celebrated pact of Malta, the one for which it was said that Italy was no longer alone. Listen to this sentence: There is a clear correlation between immigration and Covid. It is simply unreasonable to believe that this has no relation to migratory flows. Who said that? Certainly not an opposition exponent, certainly not a dangerous reactionary, but your Marco Minniti, your beloved interior minister Marco Minniti, who is a member of the Democratic Party, said so. If you don't listen to opposition, if you don't listen to us, at least listen to someone you already have at home. Forza Italia has mobilized at all levels. Today we come back here to ask the government to restore legality and control the borders - we have already asked the European Commission) - because today the virus travels through the Mediterranean on the killers boats, which continue to land, but also along the so-called Balkan route and on flights from countries particularly at risk. If we don't intervene, we'll end up overwhelmed. Mr President, in February you were all justified, because - as I said earlier - it was not known; but from now on you will no longer be. Let us be clear: the level of guard must remain high, because the pandemic is not won - we repeat - but is under control. But another is to spread the panic and make the Italians feel tight in a grip, without giving any certain perspective. Italians should be encouraged and protected, guided in this completely new phase, but not fearlessly. Here, perhaps more than the state of emergency, the Italians needed a state of emergency (with capital S), of a state, that is, able to support those who were in difficulty because of the pandemic: families, traders, free professionals, employees of companies that have now technically failed because of the lockdown. According to Istat, more than 3 and a half million jobs will be lost; the economy is in danger of collapse; consumption has already collapsed and this contraction has continued, besides making psychological terrorism - because that is what it is called, President Conte, whatever you say - risks triggering a vicious circle from which it will be difficult to get out. And don't think of responding to this dramatic situation - as someone from your Executive has done - by telling the restaurateurs that they can also change jobs, because we frankly, and the Italians as well, are tired of your presspochism. [[Applause]] There is also a second fundamental aspect to consider: why are we always so masochists to give abroad an image of our country that presents it as a potential lazzaretto? How do you think Italy can get back up and re-launch itself? This results in a fatal blow for exports, for Made in Italy and for the vital sectors of Italian GDP, starting with tourism, which you have already completely abandoned in this pandemic. The fear, perhaps, is rather that it is the Government that is once again unprepared in the event of a second wave. Have you anticipated enough masks, tests, reagents and personnel in sufficient numbers, given past experience? Paraphrasing Brecht, blessed the people who need not heroes, but nurses and doctors well paid, those yes. [[Applause]] And we come to another big government failure, the Immuni app. Released in serious delay, it has not reached the target and therefore is useless, despite all the power of communicative fire. It was downloaded by 4.4 million people; it was to reach 60 percent, but it reached only 12 percent. And, be careful, this is an app that I would call illegal, because it has allowed to identify - think well - 46 citizens and to warn 23. Congratulations! In the neighborhood of those that are proving to be double-edged weapons and for which the state of emergency would be a further blow, there is the extension of the smart working, which is transforming into a real form of constraint between the domestic walls. At the same time, women have played roles as mothers, workers, teachers, in the face of a time of work which has expanded until night to ensure the same profitability; a perverse effect, also considered the loss of 250 million per month by our economic and commercial system. As President of the Childhood Commission, I can only invite you to reflect on children. This lockdown has deprived children and adolescents of those habits that constituted their daily lives; the sense of constant loss has made them very vulnerable. There have been behavioral disorders that may still remain for many months; if this state of emergency should be prolonged, psychologically it would still produce fragility for our children. And to continue with your failures, we cannot forget the continuing uncertainties about the school [[Applause]] , of which today it also speaks "Il Sole 24 ore" (Il Sole 24 ore). We are not macronists and no one can say that Macron is our lighthouse, but we acknowledge that we have taken political responsibility for having decided to reopen the schools: he has decided and has not downloaded the responsibility on Regions, prèsidi or task force. [[Applause.]] The truth is that it should probably be Italian education that deserves the state of emergency, given the hands in which you put it. At Mom's, frankly, I can already imagine September. Except that opening the school in September doesn't seem like the country's challenge, because schools every year open in September, Professor Conte [[Applause]] But if that is the challenge of the country, so much so. As a mother - and so many mothers here know - I imagine what will happen to the first cold or cough in class, which will be mistaken for symptoms of Covid, because in October it will be full of children with fever. Did you envisage mandatory immunization against influenza for students, in view of a possible second wave? Or the Azzolina does nothing but propose completely useless ideas, a desert of solutions in which the wheels of the innovative benches are sanded [[Applause]] , that the producers will not be able to deliver and, therefore, will not participate in the ban? More than the wheels, I'll need a few extra wheels if you want after I show them to you and I'll give them to you. [[Applause.]] Let us tell the truth and let us tell the Italians: the declaration of the state of emergency that you are asking Parliament today is not for national interest or for the pandemic, but simply a political issue, which serves you to continue to maneuver with the favor of darkness, which will not, however, benefit citizens. Do you know what the proof is? It is before everyone's eyes: in these months of emergency you have not given an example of good government. So much concern for this pandemic, even to ask for the state of emergency, which - by chance - hastens you to change the electoral law in the middle of the summer, even at the cost of dividing your own majority [[Applause.]] I remind you of the words of the Italian leader Viva in full lockdown, who wanted to open all 1 April: I wonder today what vote will express Italy Viva on the renewal of the emergency state. Try to armor your seats at the expense of economic recovery and do it on the shoulders of many artisans, traders, professionals and integrated cash who do not know how to move forward. Let's say it to the Italians: last week you even postponed the vote on the third budgetary deviation, because you did not agree on the presidencies of the Commissions [[Applause.]] Is this the emergency you want? Or do you want to concentrate and subtract autonomy from decision-making centers? You have lifted your shields against Orbán, but I give you another news: in Hungary the state of emergency has already been closed since 16 June. I begin to conclude: from the beginning of this emergency, you have asked us for responsibility. We are responsible and we will continue to be responsible. Therefore, do not fear, but - better - they must not fear the Italians: if the health situation were to impose a new necessity, we will support without problems a new state of emergency, that, for those who were not accustomed to the rules, would be declared in a few hours; but we will not, if this is not necessary, because we will not kill Italy to make you survive on your armchairs. Mr President, allow me an unsolicited advice: learn a little from the sobriety of Minister Roberto Speranza, who has worked away from the spotlight and given his contribution without doing the show. Look: there has been no further departure from my own than that of Mr Hope and, therefore, I am not telling you for this reason, but today I feel like thanking him for the approach he has taken and above all for never giving up on pursuing his own. The only emergency that we revisit and revisit is the democratic one: the constitutionalist Cassese, who does not need presentations, says that this state of emergency is politically counted among the illegitimate and inappropriate measures. Mr President, I listened to you earlier: either Professor Cassese has taken a mistake or perhaps things are not as you described them. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u34	Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u35	Mr President, Mr Conte, ladies and gentlemen, I should like not to remind this House what the Covid emergency meant for Italy, but unfortunately I think it is necessary, because many people seem to have already forgotten it. And it seems to have forgotten especially who around the extension of the emergency state has assembled a political diatribe, trying to confuse emergency state with new lockdown, to foment legitimate fears of citizens. [[Applause.]] This pandemic, due to the spread of a highly contagious virus, required a decisive policy intervention to safeguard the safety of Italians. Yet, often in recent months, despite the debate on citizens' health, it should always be based on analytical points of view and following the scientific method, it has become and continues to be the object of political opposition. Today, six months after the arrival of this invisible and unknown enemy, we have what in science we call "evidence" and which survive the initial deductions. That is, we have the empirical data of the entire epidemiological curve in order to draw a clearer picture, which does not respond to feelings of optimism or pessimism, of disappearance or appearance of the virus, but which is delineated by the numbers of contagions, hospitalizations, deaths and cures. The behavior of any virus, and therefore also of SARS-Cov-2, is in fact outlined by scientific evidence and of this virus certainly today we still know too little, especially regarding the development of immunity and the long-term effects for those who have contracted it. In recent months I have often wondered what the responsibility of a government and a Parliament in such a tragedy was. And of course the responsibility is not to be carelessly and unsubstantiatedly optimistic, but to act with caution following the advice of doctors and scientists, who continue to gather evidence to trace the most effective future path to the protection of public health. In March, we saw that, when the epidemiological curve skyrocketed, we didn't have time to put into practice all the appropriate measures to stop the infection, and we learned that the timeliness is absolutely necessary. Today the whole of Europe and the whole world have recognized in the Italy model of emergency management an excellence to take for example [[Applause]] , to the point that the Nobel Prize winner Paul Krugman, with an editorial on the New York Times, praised our country for how it dealt with the outbreak from Covid. And we thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for being the right man in the right place. [[Applause]] If we had listened to those who, at the end of February, asked to reopen everything, maybe today we would still have hundreds of deaths every day. Thanks to the competence and dedication of this Government, we managed to arrest the contagions in a couple of months, despite being the first in the Western world to be hit by the pandemic and to date we count more than 246,000 cases and more than 35,000 deaths. At a distance of time, all the measures put in place, starting precisely from the timely declaration of the state of emergency, have proved to be the most suitable to make the curve of the contagions decrease. We did it because, despite decades of policies of cuts in the health sector, we were able to rely on our human resources, our excellences, our health personnel, who acted compactly with the oath of Hippocrates printed on the heart and worked tirelessly day and night with a spirit of sacrifice immolating myself: I cannot use another term given the large number of human lives that we have lost in the ranks of those we have called heroes for months. [[Applause]] We have done it because, despite the free and indomitable nature that we carry written in the genetic code, we have observed the rules; we have been respectful and diligent; we have rediscovered a feeling of cohesion and rediscovered the beauty of solidarity that puts us before the ego. We have done so because the Italians have given us confidence despite the suffering and the great difficulties; they have believed in you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and in all of us. And we have been at work right away without ever stopping, and not only to protect health and control the epidemic, but also to deal with the economic and social damage caused by the pandemic. We certainly did it because the use of masks and distance measures have been very effective tools to reduce viral load in circulation and allow the gradual reopening in safety, avoiding a new immobility. The numerous outbreaks on the national territory ask us, however, to keep the guard high and to respect the indication to wear the masks in the closed and crowded places. Yet, there are those who complain that this too is too much. Mr President, I would take these people to the ICU at the time of maximum crowding. [[Applause]] , with patients attached to the respiratory system, completely naked in a prone position, alone, away from loved ones for weeks and, sometimes, forever. I am sure that those who have experienced this error and this pain cannot forget it and certainly do not forget it the eyes of our health workers, who ask us to respect their commitment and sacrifice, not with propaganda or with promises, but with our good example, especially in institutional fora. [[Applause]] Opposing to the extension of the state of emergency can only be a political act, President, and not a rational choice, because state of emergency means giving the government the opportunity to make decisions in a timely manner. However, we have heard in this House that it is not necessary. Who doesn't? Isn't it for the sick? Isn't it for health workers, traders, who don't want to have to lower the shutters again, business? Or is it not for the citizens of Lombardy, who have seen more than 16,000 people die and today are to witness investigations into attempted speculations in the management of this emergency? [[Applause]] Mr President, I say what it takes. It certainly serves the Italian citizens to know that, if the risk of public health impairment should be high, then the Government will be able to act promptly, because the timeliness has been our salvation. We cannot afford a new overload of our National Health Service before we have upgraded it; another sacrifice of our doctors, nurses, volunteers; we cannot afford a new lockdown. And I hope that this is the thought shared by everyone, because in order to protect the good of Italy and Italians in science and medicine we must act rationally. And if we still don't know how to treat this virus, we certainly know that we have a responsible government and a national health service that this Executive has made stronger. These are the two pillars on which to build our security and lay the foundations for the recovery of an Italy that now really needs to shine. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u36	I declare closed the debate on the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. I would like to inform the House that motions for resolutions No 1 (text 2), Mr Marcucci, Mr Perilli, Mr De Petris, Mr Faraone and Mr Unterberger, and No 2, by Mr Romeo, Mr Bernini and Mr Ciriani, have been tabled. The lyrics are in distribution. I'm telling you, we're on live television with Rai. I call on the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Mr Conte, to give an opinion on the motions for resolutions tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u37	Mr President, kind senators and kind senators, you will have missed that I usually do not repeat, because I reserve the initial intervention the exhaustive exposition of the government's position and the various arguments, then preferring to entertain myself to listen very carefully to all the speeches. In this case, I take advantage of it and make an exception. I have listened to a number of speeches, particularly from the opposition, colored with controversial veins, even ideological ones, on a subject that I had allowed myself to classify as an exquisitely technical and legal issue. I'll explain why I want to clarify what I meant. A first observation: some speeches have clarified one thing that we all know is that our Constitution is not about an emergency state. Of course, this must not be a debate between those who love constitutional law; there are pros and cons and it is one of the reasons why we had to build an ad hoc regulatory path that was not specifically provided for in the constitutional dictation. We must not, however, confuse the fact that there is no ad hoc path in our Construction with the fact that we must not intervene in order to adopt measures and pursue a specific regulatory process in the clear sign of the timeliness and effectiveness of regulatory and even operational interventions. When it is said that the Constitution does not provide for the state of emergency, it cannot be concluded that the proclamation of the state of emergency is unlawful. I ask you again to consider that we may not have noticed, but since 2014 we have declared the state of emergency 154 times, and we have extended it 84 times. Therefore, the state of emergency is provided for by a rule of primary rank in Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2018, our Civil Protection Code. The fact that the need to extend a declared state of emergency under the Civil Protection Code must not appear out of hand then. In fact, if we extend it for events that have occurred very far in time and specific isolated facts as may be a flood or an earthquake, even more, perhaps, it is justified to extend an event such as the pandemic that - and we all agree at the moment - we are holding, because the epidemiological curve is absolutely under control, and we hope it will remain under control. The pandemic, however, is still an event that develops continuously and unpredictablely because the virus continues to circulate. I have made it clear - to someone, however, who escapes and continues to repeat it - that we are reasoning because the declaration of the state of emergency allows us to activate in our legal system a series of organizational, operational and functional measures that allow us to guarantee full assistance and protection to many subjects currently exposed in a direct and indirect way to the effects of the pandemic. In particular, I have tried to point out - clearly I have not been clear and therefore I prefer to specify it - that among the organizational, operational and functional measures there are interventions that directly concern the head of civil protection and the extraordinary commissioner that at this moment allow us to complete the plan of strengthening the hospital structures, that frankly leaving to half of the work would be absolutely inconvenient and contraindicated. They allow us to pursue the security plan of our schools, because I imagine that we all want our students, our boys and girls to be able to return to school safely in September. They even allow us - it is news of the last hours and I imagine that the opposition forces are also particularly sensitive to the issue - to pursue with timeliness and effectiveness a plan of health surveillance of migrants. In fact, in the light of the current rules, we have even difficulty in operating a requisition of ferry ships where we obviously want to ensure the development of forty and, therefore, to plan an adequate and effective health surveillance of migrants. In addition, they allow us to pursue that full restoration of the administration of justice, as well as full health security in the prisons that we have had to suspend for the known reasons. I spoke, therefore, of an extension of the state of emergency imposed by exquisitely technical reasons, but I did not mean - as some of the opposition pointed out - that I wanted to preclude a political assessment. Of course! Everyone in this House - the government first and also you with whom we are dealing - is obviously called upon to make a political assessment. However, I hope - and this was the call made to the forces not only by majority, but also by the opposition forces - that the assessments that you will make arise from the technical need to ensure an objective that is political - I am fully aware of that - that is to guarantee the operational continuity of the system that we have put in place and that allows us in this way, with a series of organizational, functional and operational measures - I have listed them before, I do not repeat them - to ensure full assistance, full support and also, of course, the full restoration and the safest restart of all economic, social and cultural activities. Attention: we are starting to do this today because we have a whole system of protection; many of the measures are not visible, but I challenge you also to question the same Presidents of the Region, who are actuators with regard to these measures compared to the head of the Civil Protection; compare with them and see if from today to tomorrow they are willing to abandon and abandon all these protection measures. Having said that, there is no doubt that we can have various opinions, but I believe that no one with intellectual honesty should blame the Government for the desire to extend the state of emergency in order to fuel fears, alarmism - as I have unfortunately heard - or even for the desire to provoke authoritative torsions of our democratic system. I believe that we can disagree with the actions of the Government, with the activities and initiatives taken, but you will acknowledge that since the beginning of the pandemic this Government has acted in full transparency; it has always come to this House to confront Parliament; it has defined a guaranteed path through decree-laws and then decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers implementing them that always take root in the decree-laws; among other things, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that, as they have been conceived, provide for the full involvement of all the Ministers concerned, as well as representatives of the Presidents of the Regions and local authorities. [[Applause]] Since 18 May, when this Government took responsibility for easing restrictive measures and allowing the full reopening of all activities, we have not heard more about social alarm, various dangers, etc. We ourselves have created and are maintaining those minimal precautionary measures, such as the rule of distance, which now allow us to run. Italy has to run. We need to get the consumption circuit back on track. Now we must absolutely support businesses, families. We need to get back stronger than before. That is our objective and I believe it is to be shared, regardless of the majority and the opposition. I therefore come to the conclusion that we have followed a method from the outset. If we are also recognized abroad that we have passed with some effectiveness the most acute period of the crisis, it is because this government from the beginning has followed a method. It has followed the method of the precautionary principle, of transparency with everyone, Parliament and citizens, the principle of the adequacy and proportionality of the measures used. We have tried not to adopt oversized and oversized measures and to adopt them when they really appeared as necessary to achieve the purpose of containment of the contagion. Now we invite you to consider the need to extend the state of emergency, once again without any alarmism, without any will to nourish fears, but simply for the opportunity, indeed, the need to continue to maintain this apparatus of minimal measures that allow us to run and, in particular, to maintain full effectiveness and timeliness of intervention to this apparatus. I repeat that the assessment is of each individual Member of Parliament, in full consciousness and in full responsibility. With regard to the resolutions that have been tabled, the Government is in favour of motion for resolution No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Marcucci, Perilli, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger, and contrary to motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u38	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u39	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u41	LANIECE (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, in the exceptional situation we are experiencing, I believe that only one principle must guide the choices of the public decision-maker and this principle is called common sense. Unfortunately, however, we are witnessing a debate which leaves us very perplexed. Scrolling the newspapers and the web in recent weeks are not few who say that the virus has passed, performing a dramatic work of removal of what happened. So it's better to start with what we know, on the contrary, what we don't have: we don't have consistent data on the management of the virus. From a therapeutic point of view, there are still many doubts. The immunological response to the infection is unclear. Therefore, the value of immunological tests is still very doubtful. We do not, above all, have the vaccine, with a still challenging path in this sense, even if in the last few days scientific data make us hope well. So, until the day the vaccine finally comes, we're all gonna have to live with this virus again. It is easier for those countries, such as Italy, which have good data on the decrease of infections; more complicated for those who see dramatically increasing the number of sick and dead. There is a red thread linking all countries such as the United States, Brazil and the United Kingdom, where the contagion curve is still high, i.e. the fact that decisions taken, very often, have been taken in contrast with the opinion of the technical and scientific committees. Today we must not fall into the same temptation; and I too would like to remember with pleasure the beautiful reportage of the New York Times: Italy as a sick person in Europe has shown the world how it can be healed and this thanks to the far-sighted action of its Government. This is due, precisely, to the prudential principle that moved the Government, which declared the state of emergency when in our country there were only two cases - remember the couple of Chinese admitted to the Spallanzani - and there were still three weeks to discover the first outbreaks in Lombardy and Veneto. I therefore wonder why, today that we are faced with hundreds of cases a day, with an international framework far worse than last January, we must make the whole machine slower and more cumbersome, not extending the state of emergency. The extension of this state of emergency would allow, precisely, to complete the reorganization of the health system in the territory, from the RSA to the telemedicine, to the dedicated hospital structures, with the aim of adapting to the various scenarios of autumn. It is also the only way to secure school environments and ensure an orderly opening of the school year. Children and adolescents have been missing from those benches for more than two hundred days and it is something unacceptable, if we think that 13 percent of them did not have the opportunity to access the teaching at a distance. Through the state of emergency you can keep alive all the provisions aimed at ensuring social distance, starting with the use of individual protective devices. Let us not hide behind a finger: from this point of view, especially in some contexts, today it is hard to make them respect and it would be even worse if we said that all this is no longer an obligation, but a faculty of individuals. To conclude, Mr President, these are considerations of this kind that should move public thinking, to which I add a fourth consideration: the commitment to suppress a possible second wave in the bud is of vital importance, so as not to see the economic crisis turn into an economic and social depression. In short, try to avoid a second lockdown in the autumn. This must also be done by giving greater confidence to the territories: the local self-governments and regions with special status, which we represent here, can in fact be decisive, being able to exercise their competences in managing the needs of all citizens to the best. We therefore want to reiterate the full respect of our Statutes of autonomy. I shall conclude, Mr President, by quoting the metaphor that Minister Hope often uses, which I think is of great relevance: Italy is like a ship that has abandoned the storm, but has not yet landed in a safe harbour. This means telling the strongest, the youngest and all those who have good health and who too often tend to avoid the obligation to protect themselves, that the achievement of that safe harbour means being on the side of the elderly, the disabled, the chronically ill, the children and all those who are particularly vulnerable. Our responsible behavior is directed to them and to the memory of the 35,000 people who have left us. For all these reasons, Mr President, the Group for the Autonomies will support the Government on the request for an extension of the state of emergency. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u44	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, first of all I would like to point out, with a minimum of irony - allow me - that for the first time, in so many years I have been in Parliament, I have seen a live television on the replica and not on the show. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I understand that this is a better time from the television point of view and I understand that your habit is to look more at the news than at Parliament, but it will allow me to say that it is strange that you are replying on television to something that the viewers have not been able to listen to. It is truly a characteristic of his personality, admirable in many ways. [[Applause]] Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you say that the extension of the state of emergency is indispensable and necessary, because otherwise assistance and protection would cease, you could not complete civil protection and the school security plan and you could not block migrants, who do not know when you have ever blocked them, since they continue to run away, without you doing anything at all. [[Applause]] And I didn't hear about it in any of the speeches of his majority: they got mad at the kids who do the aperitifs and the fans of Naples, but woe to talk about the migrants' escapes! But that doesn't matter. Then there was talk of prisons and security: but do you really think that in order to do these things there is a need for a state of emergency? You are a graduate of law, you are even the lawyer of the people and you know very well that our Constitution, in cases of urgency, which have nothing to do with the emergency, provides for the decree-law, which you can implement immediately and which only subsequently can Parliament decide whether to ratify, validate, confirm or not. So don't tell us things that you know aren't true. In other words, I could also say - if I didn't appear offensive - that you lied knowing you were lying. You see, Mr President, we do not have the slightest claim to say that the coronavirus is completely eradicated; we have no claim to advise Italians to avoid normal precautions, those of common sense. But at the same time we do not accept that they are afraid, that they are cornered, that they are gagged on non-existent premises. You know much better than I do that there have been no deaths for days, not even from ancient diseases; you know very well that for two months there have been no symptomatic cases; you know very well that at this moment the dominant strain of the virus is such that it does not create any clinical danger; you know very well because scientific emergencies say so. Of course, then there are the terrorist bulletins, which cannot help but say 'zero deaths', but they add symptomatic cases with asymptomatic, past cases with current cases; however, it becomes very clear that at this moment you can only talk about a future danger - of course, there can be - of recovery of the virus. But you know very well that a state of emergency - no need to teach us Professor Cassese - is valid only when it is current. You cannot imagine a state of emergency for a danger that will come, otherwise, dear colleagues, as someone said, you spoke of the dead, the wounded, the suffering that we have all suffered (only the majority friend) and that we all shared (and you first know that we also approved the deviations of the budget), but it is not that, in the memory of suffering, we can imagine that forever there is a state of emergency, when there is no more. It means keeping Italians in check, scared of them. But wasn't it the right that blew on the fire, the one that played with fear? You've learned a lesson we've never given you. Keep playing with fear, I'm not telling you to blow on the fire, but it's very serious what you're still doing. We are the only ones in Europe (ask why) to extend a state of emergency. Do you remember Orbán? Does the Left even remember saying that we should have suspended European aid, because with a constitutional law - yes - that we do not have in our Constitution - it had taken less powers than those that have taken over this Government and that we allowed it, in the moment of real danger? Well, Orbán and Hungary ceased the state of emergency by a parliamentary vote on 15 May. Why do we extend it? Perhaps we do not care that this poses a risk for Italy to appear to be the anointing of Europe? Do we not care that this causes considerable economic damage? You are in fact telling the world that there is a state of emergency in Italy that no longer exists, in this capacity; it is not that there is no danger of future contagions or the obligation to be careful, but there is no current condition that justifies the alarm that you create with this state of emergency. I could go on, listing the numbers and irregularities that have been made, the double truth of who was too open, when it was necessary to close (do you remember it at the beginning? Do you remember, dear friends of the PD, the aperitifs on the Navigli, in Milan?), and that now, that must be reopened, wants to close! [[Applause]] There is a suspicion that, rather than an interest in keeping the virus under control, you have taken pride in the increase in popularity that has resulted. You know, when there is fear, even a beautiful physical presence, a good speech and a reassuring position of certainty help; but it is not that to give results to the Government and the majority we can gag Italy for life. You can't ask us that. Mr President, when you finally want to involve us and not do everything yourself, as you have done so far, we are ready to examine carefully the proposals on how to spend the money that will come, if and when they will come. We are ready to examine the daughter needs of this terrible event that is behind us, and that we hope it will not return; but if it comes back, we would be ready. But we are just as ready, dear President, to tell you with all our clarity that we have the well-founded suspicion, Count, that instead of defending the cause of the Italian people, you are trying to defend your popularity, your armchair and those of your Government, who are not lucky enough to have a popular vote. Look for him. If we vote for the regionals, if we vote for the referendum, instead of asking here for an extension to the state of emergency, let the Italians vote, and then we can look at it with greater sympathy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u47	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, we will of course vote on the majority resolution today and support the Government in this difficult post-emergency health management phase. However, Mr Conte, I would like to put to you a clear question, which is relatively clear to us and which, of course, the sovereignists will never be able to say to you. I would point out that in the resolution that we are voting on today we have reduced the extension to 15 October, where I recall that the first proposal made publicly referred to 31 December, so this is a drastic reduction that we are mainly linking to the start of the school year and the second round of elections. Well, I ask you why - and this is the element of inconsistency that we would like to deepen and above all find solutions in common - we feel the right need to extend the state of emergency of health and we do not think that we should use the resources for the emergency of health that Europe currently makes available to us immediately. That is the real contradiction on which we must respond, Mr President. Even Salvini is consistent in his incoherence: the man on the coronavirus behaved a bit like that guy in the joke who was asked to look out the window to see if the arrow worked, and he said: Now yes, now not, now yes, now not. Well, that was Salvini's attitude on the coronavirus: sometimes he cried emergency, all closed; other times he told us, instead, that the emergency is not there; now, in the pappalardian phase of the orange vests, he tells us that the emergency is not there except for immigrants, President: you can turn without mask, there is no risk, but all the boats coming from North Africa are full of infected. Yet, Salvini has an element of consistency: he says that the emergency is not there - in the current pappalardian drift - so he consistently says that he does not need the economic resources of the ESM, which are made available for our country precisely for the management of this phase, President. The element of incoherence lies here, in view of the economic availability to manage the phase that you have described very well, and which naturally involves certain investment needs on the part of this country. All the things you have listed to us, Mr President, have a cost and we have the opportunity to use those resources that we need now and that we should use immediately, having those as immediate availability. So, on the one hand, it is said that there is a need for an instrument to manage the eventual return of outbreaks, the possible closure of new red areas, the possibility of races, the start of the school year, on the other hand, no ESM, which is without any conditionality. I believe that this choice is wrong and purely ideological. These are two contradictory behaviors that make us appear, Mr President, even less credible in Europe. It's not that we've been begging someone because we're a country of scumbags, we're the third economy on the continent. If we have asked Europe for help, it is simply because our country has been among the most affected by the pandemic. That's all. So give the possibility to sovereignists or frugalists to say that we have asked a courtesy to other countries, because we have a availability, beyond the recovery fund, that of course are one-off resources destined to investments in the long term, to give the possibility to ask why we do not use resources, to interest below zero, destined to the emergency, I think it is a mistake. Also because, Mr President, I would remind you that these resources can be used for both direct and indirect health expenditure. For all the things you have listed, I can also give you a list of indirect health expenses that can be financially borne by those resources. If we think of entrepreneurs, all that concerns the safety of companies, is indirect health costs. If we used those resources to support entrepreneurs forced to put plexiglass, to expand the tables of restaurants to allow the distance, to sanitize, if we gave entrepreneurs these economic resources, we would probably avoid the phenomenon that is happening that sees entrepreneurs forced to increase prices, to the detriment of consumers, just because they do not succeed. So we would need those resources now for a direct interest of entrepreneurs, to promote a restart. As well as the start of the school year. In the deviation we will put resources that will be debited by the State for the start of the school year; also there indirect health expenditure, resources that we could use with the ESM funds. As well as everything that concerns the reopening of public offices, to close this terrible smart working. I believe that we have an opportunity to intervene. As far as the school year is concerned, Mr President, I continue to hear the Minister's assurances and I am happy, but after that, turning around and listening to school leaders too, I hear a lot of them telling me that they are selecting which classes to start again. Just as I hear so many parents saying that they go to enroll their children in the older schools, where there is a greater chance of complying with the rules. This means that we, from this point of view, should have more attention and make more investment in school. Mr President, as you said very well, and I agree, the state of emergency is also for quarantine ships. Also there, those are indirect health expenses and to hear Minister Lamorgese saying that he does not have the possibility, because economically he cannot, to take the cruise ships for quarantine, is something that I am sorry when I the economic resources, always for indirect health expenditure, I have them available with the ESM. In order not to list, President, the theme of intensive therapies because, God does not want it, but it may happen that we should need that intervention further and so many regions of the country are unprepared. The doctors, the minister Hope, the nurses; how do we empty the funnel of the residents? All those kids who should start working and who are still there that can't do it because we don't have the financial resources for specialty schools. Also for those: the resources of the ESM. I think all of this needs to be in tune with what we say. The health emergency at this time is obviously less priority than the economic emergency: no dichotomy, but it is objectively so. There was a time when we closed and there was a health emergency; now it is reopened and we must support the restart. That's the priority. In order to do this, we must also support the country economically in this phase of difficulty. President Conte, in order to change the phase you also have to change the message, because if we tell the country that there is the same situation as when we were in full lockdown we make a mistake. From this point of view, the language of his speech has been absolutely balanced. Of course - I repeat - we cannot walk and let the country go with the hand brake pulled. I have a feeling that every now and then we imagine the use of the airbag as if we had to keep it open for fear of the accident and then it didn't open in case of an accident. I would like us to organize the country by being ready to close, but - in the meantime - we are going to go forward and determined to support the restart. We shall therefore vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled. The last recommendation concerns a passage that we have included in the motion for a resolution as regards psychiatric residential structures. We continue to receive countless reports of women and men - mothers and dads - who fail to reunite with the boys closed and secreted in psychiatric health facilities, which are the last place that has remained in total lockdown. There are so many reports coming to us and we, President Conte, ask you to intervene so that there too you can return to normal and allow these people to be able to hug again. I was very impressed by the statement of a mother who said that her son, a 41-year-old Down boy, who has the perception of a two-year-old, psychologically experienced the distance from parents much worse than many others because he thought it could be forever. We must stop this situation immediately and I ask you to intervene. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u50	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr Conte, in your speech you wanted to clear the field from a series of interpretations, some objectively instrumental, in relation to the extension of the state of emergency. There has been talk of many things in the debate, but first of all let us stick to the substance. The Italians listen to us and it is right that it is clear what we are doing: the extension of the state of emergency is not lockdown, nor the interventions adopted in the previous months, which are behind us. The state of emergency is a regulatory system aimed at keeping up the organizational structures that have produced the results we have seen. I should like to say a few words, Mr Conte: perhaps we should think, in times of peace, about another regulatory system that will get us out of that language - a state of emergency - and allow us to have the rules in order to be able to act. But today we are here and, therefore, the state of emergency - let us repeat this - is not lockdown. On the contrary, from this point of view, the state of emergency is prompt to continue those policies of growth, development and restart of the work in our country. It does not automatically involve - as I say to my colleagues in the opposition - any regulatory intervention that restricts freedom. As the President-in-Office of the Council has clearly said, and as we, with the majority, repeat in the motion for a resolution, any intervention which should be made necessary from this point of view needs a primary legislative source, hence a decree-law, in accordance with the role of Parliament and the debate in Parliament. From this point of view, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why we are having a debate in which the government is accused of wanting to do things, when you know that this is absolutely not the case. The argument, then, all political, according to which the state of emergency is used to silence dissent - as has been said in this debate - let me say that it is nonsense. On the other hand you did the demonstration in Piazza del Popolo. [[Applause.]] Maybe not achieving that success you thought you had, but you have done it; no one forbids you and no one will forbid you. Let's not talk nonsense. Just as it is nonsense the idea that the state of emergency is functional to propel the government and without it the government would fall. This is not the case: the majority is and is solid. He sometimes talks in a way that is not quite striking, not really at his best; we might do better, but the majority is there. No way, from this point of view... [[Comments]] Excuse me? The chair? We're all sitting in an armchair, guys, enough of this demagogy. [[Applause]] It is demagogy, which does not serve Italians and Italy. I say: first the Italians and first the Italy, before your polemics. [[Applause]] Now, let's not dramatize what it isn't. I would like to address a prayer to all of us. I don't want to argue, but let's avoid really instrumental readings. The use of the mask is useful and the distance is necessary; sending, from this point of view, misunderstanding and propaganda messages is dangerous, because legitimate behaviors that can create problems to all of us. And so, if this is done by those who have responsibility in this country, it is an irresponsible and dangerous behavior - let me say it -. That said, there is the economic crisis. This country has problems and none of us denies them; but this discussion we will do tomorrow, discussing the budgetary deviation, and we will do it when examining the next decree that will use the resources of the deviation. Overcoming the economic problems we have in this debate on the state of emergency is a mistake. Do you know why? Because it conveys the idea that at some point, health security must be sacrificed in the name of a hypothetical economic recovery. See that this mistake has already been made by several countries; and you have seen what the results are. It was also done here in Italy, not only for aperitifs, as was mentioned by someone, but also by those who said, at the end of February, to reopen everything. Good thing we didn't! [[Applause]] And that, for intellectual honesty, we should all have the ability to recognize it. I have already said that we should do an analysis of the path this country has made, recognizing the value of doctors and the health system and the effort of the Italians. Of course, we should also think about mistakes and limits. There is no doubt, however, that, fortunately, the Italians understood that the choice made by the Government was right. From this point of view, do not worry about the polls and the consensus of the President of the Council, because, if the outcome of this commitment and work has been useful for Italy, we must thank the Government. [[Applause.]] And stimulate him now to get out of the logic of emergency and set a vision. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, our debate is asphyctic, starting with me: the time will come when we will discuss without accusing each other of what strategy we want to propose for Italy, not on emerging things, but on what vision do we have of the tax system, of fiscal fairness, of industrial policies and of the change that this country must make? What idea do we have? We will have to discuss this, because we were elected to give the country a future, not just to ride propaganda or maybe have some extra tweet or consensus in a poll. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u53	Mr Pinotti (PD). Mr President-in-Office of the Council, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, on 30 January the World Health Organisation declared the health emergency; on 31 January, immediately afterwards, the Italian Government did the same: it declared the state of emergency and did so for six months. What we are discussing today is whether we need to extend the state of emergency further. I would like to take a step back, so that everyone in this House would remember what we have been through these months, because it has been a short time, but it seems that we have almost forgotten it, at least some. From one day to the next, we had to change our lifestyle: we are used to giving hands, when we meet, and to embrace the people we care about. From one moment to the next, we had to change the quality of our relationships and change established habits (such as learning to wash our hands and sanitize environments). We did not immediately understand the gravity of the situation: it was not easy, so there was also a stop and go, like a close-open, which was also mentioned in today's speeches. I would like you all to remember this, as I remember the day I entered this House and I saw all the people wearing a mask: I felt like I was in a science fiction film; I couldn't believe it was happening to us; I really didn't think it was possible and it was an incredible moment of alienation. Then everyone in the house, with the lockdown: the schools closed; the places of worship closed; the stadiums closed; the work could no longer go; there was a great test of maturity of the Italian people, of which I was proud. [[Applause.]] I was admired by the responsibility with which Italians lived towards themselves and others the moment of lockdown. In the streets in those days were only the sirens of ambulances, many, incessant. Our health care workers, whose faces we saw dumbed by masks and tiredness, were holding a situation of extreme difficulty, because not even the health care was ready for that pandemic; however, very quickly, and with acts of heroism really incredible, the structures adapted and set in motion a necessary revision of the pavilions to accommodate emergencies. There have been deadly and impossible shifts that our workers, our doctors and all the health care personnel have done; and they have often found themselves alone to have to comfort people who at any moment have left their homes, got sick, entered a hospital, could no longer see their loved ones and died. I repeat, their loved ones have never seen them again and the last hand was that of a healthcare professional who looked them in the eye to leave. We have discovered that personal protective devices - initially there was difficulty finding masks and shirts - are strategic productions like those we think for the Defense (in the Defense we are accustomed to imagine that there are some productions considered strategic). We need to think about the fact that there are productions that concern security that are strategic. We've had more than 35,000 dead, and no one can forget that incredible image of Army trucks taking away coffins. At that moment the country looked all stunned. And I also remember in this House the proximity to health workers, but also the emotion because many of us had friends who were affected, got sick and some unfortunately are no longer there. Why do I remember all this? Because it's not something far in time: it's only been three or four months. Of course, the health emergency has fortunately eased considerably, because it has been dealt with effectively, but it could start again. To restart the country, not to stop it is a goal of all, but we need responsibility and prudence. We continue to follow the rules for everyone's safety. I too find it very serious that there are political leaders - and it has also happened here in the Senate - who give with their attitudes an absolutely contradictory message to what is needed. Look, they did it in other countries, for example, Boris Johnson, Trump, Bolsonaro, and I don't think they then gave evidence and demonstrations; some also had to repent and said so publicly. So let's avoid because each of us is a model for a piece of country, it's followed; let's not give these messages, because it's not over. So why extend the state of emergency? It has been well said by the President-in-Office of the Council, although many of the opposition's speeches have misrepresented it: it is the framework, the framework to intervene with ad hoc measures. The role of civil protection ordinances has been explained: they are ordinances that can be made immediately out of normal times only if there is an emergency state. It is not a new lockdown; many in this House have said so, but let us remember: it is not the deprivation of freedom that was necessary at the acute moment of the crisis. We hope not, but there may be new peaks, and we must take care to look at this too. However, in the transition we must maintain common rules and prudent rules of conduct, also because, as many have mentioned, the international situation is still serious. The phase is no longer acute; Parliament has rightly been involved and must always be involved: the Democratic Party is convinced that this method is important (this is the meaning of today's communication). The other point is that we believe that the measures should be proportionate to the development of the situation. Having said all this, I really do not understand - it is not a matter of a majority position - why the tones have risen, thinking of riding this measure from the opposition as a clava to be launched in the political battle. I don't understand it, I just don't understand it: I'm sincere, it's not to oppose what you said. But does anyone really think that there might be people who are interested in not getting the country back on track? Actually, I'm surprised at you. But can you think that extending the state of emergency means delaying the restart? It's not like that. That someone wants to damage the image of Italy? But if anything, it is the opposite: tourists who want to come to Italy, if they see a country that looks carefully at the rules, it is easier for them to decide to come to Italy instead of going to another country where instead, having had less prudence in the rules, they are unfortunately spread out outbreaks. Or really, as I've heard, does anyone think this is a diabolical device to maintain consent? And why would that be the case? The acceptance of the government's action has been and has been linked to the seriousness of the action to contain and combat the pandemic - which has also been recognized by our allies abroad, by international organizations, by the scientific community - but is certainly not connected to the state of emergency. However, we are all aware of the difficult time we will be living in the autumn, all of us. There are therefore no triumphalist tones; there is concern and attention and here I would like to say to the President of the Council and to the Government that I also want to ask them to pay attention to the world of school, especially children and girls, boys and girls, because in these months they have suffered more, uprooted at any moment from the places of friendships, from the places of learning and training. We really have a very serious responsibility for this, so I think it will be a difficult time. However, I would like to ask my colleagues from the opposition to reconsider, because the extension of the state of emergency is useful to the country, it does not concern partisan interests. The President of the Council has made a very long list of the things for which the state of emergency is needed. I mention just a few: temporary structures for positive people, the payment of the pensions of the Post Office for the elderly in safety, the epidemiological surveillance made by the Higher Institute of Health, the fact that the Technical and Scientific Committee can continue its work. Seriously, Senator La Russa, do you think these are things that scare Italians? Aren't they rather made to reassure them? [[Applause]] Therefore, without shyness and with great conviction, the Democratic Party will support the extension of the state of emergency, for these reasons, because it serves the country, not because it serves a part. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u56	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President of the Senate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wipe out a misunderstanding which, in my opinion, is the basis of the opposition's attitude. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you are a lawyer, as Mr La Russa mentioned earlier. I have listened carefully to what Mrs Pinotti has told us, how important it is for there to be centres for the care of the positives, the elderly and the disabled. In your opinion, according to the Government, can all this be done only with the extension of the state of emergency? [[Applause]] In other words, in your opinion, can Italy be governed only through special laws? Is that what you're telling us? I'd like to understand before I think of something terribly wrong. I do not even want to think that, after you, President Conte, told us that Covid is present in Italy to a limited extent and territorially limited, then tell us that this is enough to prolong the state of emergency to put Italy under exceptional laws, giving moreover Italy - and here I am sorry to contradict colleagues of the majority - a terrible image, a convent of chronic patients [[Applause]] , of anointings, which fail to emerge from an emergency state which not even one of the European States has prolonged. Mr President-in-Office of the Council, either you are the smartest of all or I do not understand. We were the first to enter the emergency and we are the last to get out of it, indeed, we are also asked to extend the state of emergency. [[Applause]] That is why we are fiercely opposed to this extension, because we believe that it is not appropriate, but it is necessary for the Government to be able to act, regardless of the full powers that the President of the Council and its Ministers want to have thanks to the state of emergency. [[Applause]] Mr President, I am an isolated voice and I am truly convinced that those who will benefit most from this measure will be the Government itself. The government's estate will be politically advantaged by the extension of the state of emergency but not Italy, the Italians, the image of Italy in the world, the famous Made in Italy that Minister Di Maio had to go to promote around the world. [[Applause]] Go tell Minister Di Maio that we promote a beautiful product in a state of emergency. Congratulations. I would say that this is a truly extraordinary marketing operation. Even at the level of domestic consumption, Mr President, you have heard - Istat said this today - that 30% of Italian companies are afraid of not being able to move forward. The only extension that you should have made, I tell you for six months, is the extension of the tax deadlines for traders, craftsmen and VAT consignments, to 31 January 2021. [[Applause]] Mr President, it is not too late. It's still in time. He charged a myriad of VAT bills in July this month. We ask and ask for an active and active repentance. Suspend, extend the tax deadlines to those who were forced not to work, to those who could not work because they had to stay at home. It's just a tyrant state asking to pay taxes to those who haven't cashed in. [[Applause]] and must choose whether to feed their children, pay their employees, their suppliers, utilities, rent or taxes. But that's how the shutters go down in the cities. Mr President, I don't want to be rhetorical, I don't want to tell what Covid was like and how many trucks we saw leaving Bergamo. All this has struck us terribly, but we want to prevent it from happening again and we want to prevent Italy from appearing to the rest of the world as a place where all this can happen. [[Applause]] There is no need for the state of emergency to govern Italy well, unless it is a Government so shaky that it is afraid of itself, of a Government that is unable to guarantee health, security and control of immigration. Here: immigration control, do we want to talk about it? [[Applause]] Do we want to talk about the way in which the southern borders, the Mediterranean borders are managed? Hundreds of Tunisian immigrants arrive in Italy and flee from the reception centers while merchants, exhibitors who let customers in without the mask are fined. There are immigrants who travel around Italy potentially at risk, because we know that in Africa, unfortunately, health infrastructure is not so efficient. Moreover, since it is mostly Tunisian immigration, a Tunisia that looks almost like Albania in the nineties, I demand from a government like its - and it does not mean operating in an emergency, it is necessary - that the Minister of Foreign Affairs calls on the Tunisian ambassador to stop these migratory flows obviously aimed at obtaining something and to take back Tunisian immigrants who, apart from the Gelsomini revolution, do not appear to be involved in a war. This is a democratic, civilised country that respects international conventions, because we have to keep hundreds of Tunisians at risk Covid around our country? [[Applause]] We do not need the extension of the state of emergency to do this and I am afraid, since it has not been able to do so before, that even if we prolong the state of emergency, in fact, you will extend it yourself, it will be difficult to do so even after. Do we want to talk about the borders of Friuli-Venezia Giulia and the reopening of the Balkan route, the borders of Ventimiglia? These are the real emergencies, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but it is not necessary, I repeat, to invoke exceptional rights and laws to do so. You spoke as a rule of primary rank. So, to quote and follow a legal terminology, there is a rule, the so-called grundnorm, the largest and most important of all that is called the Constitution which says that the Government cannot limit forever the rights and freedoms of citizens, especially personal freedoms and the exercise of economic activity at risk even now. Colleagues, I don't know if we realize what we're doing. Someone before me - I think Mr Pharaoh - called for smart working. But do you know that a smart working that has nothing smart is helping to desert cities? Are you helping to impoverish bars and restaurants and is not increasing productivity at all? And do we want our country to risk the work developing in this way? Do we want to make families and workers run the risk of not encouraging work, which - I repeat - is the only antidote to poverty? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are not creating an antidote to poverty: one third of Italian families have only been saving for one month; from the crossroads of Istat and INPS data it appears that over the last two months more pensions have been paid than salaries, and this means not only that the family welfare is on the shoulders of their grandparents, not only that we are a people of pensioners, but that, if we continue this way and if we do not encourage work, if we do not encourage wages, we will not pay pensions to grandparents anymore. [[Applause]] How do we explain to those who look at us from outside and at ourselves that we're not taking any chances? According to you, after you have declared the state of emergency (it is absolutely normal for the President of the Council to come here and tell us that we must be governed by special laws, otherwise you do not answer and it is all our fault if something happens), if someone wanted to buy a house or even a car, invest some savings, even just sign up and make a subscription somewhere, will you do it with the perception that something terrible can happen? [[Applause]] I leave her with a suggestion. I wonder if you know something that we do not know, because you cannot come here saying that basically the Covid clusters are under control, that the incidence is modest, but that you need to govern Italy with special laws. No way! It is not possible to make such a statement, which states one thing and its opposite. There's a method in madness. You can't control immigration. Today I saw a surreal image of Tunisians coming with the poodle - there is method in madness - with the trolley and the poodle. But those are not tourists, even if a Undersecretary - I fear Deputy Minister - of his Government has confused a ship of a non-governmental organization for a cruise ship. [[Applause]] Those aren't tourists. I'll tell you something, Mr. President-in-Office. We are afraid that all this will do a real and profound damage to the work, to the enterprise, to the productive categories and we are not alone, talk to the president of Confindustria. The state of emergency is not good for Italy. Who knows how to govern govern the same, does not need to take the full powers, those full powers that you contested last year, perhaps because he was already preached to ask for them for himself. I quote a phrase from someone who will certainly like you very much, John Kennedy: those who tried to get power by riding the tiger are eventually devoured. We are here, Forza Italia is here to avoid, to prevent the tiger of the emergency that you have triggered from devouring the heart of the productive categories, the beating, active, healthy heart of our great country and we will always continue to operate in this direction, even against you [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u59	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would also like to thank you for the warm welcome you have given me. [[Comments.]] Can the state of emergency be extended? The answer is negative and it is for a very clear reason, namely that the situation does not actually exist. If there is no state of emergency, it cannot be declared an emergency state; however, it has been objected that without the emergency state without emergency you cannot buy masks and desks for schools. This argument, if it were not comical, would be tragic, because it would mean that the Italian State, if it does not declare the emergency in the absence of emergency, cannot do anything as simple as buy single-seater benches and masks for students. [[Applause]] Conclusion: the declaration of a state of emergency in this situation is inappropriate and illegitimate and, therefore, it is good to return to an orderly normality. Signed by Professor Sabino Cassese, judge emeritus of the Constitutional Court, who I think knows more about by law than you do, Professor Conte. I don't think he's a sovereignist or a negatorist. [[Applause]] It's even trivial. If we think about it, it took you forty minutes to try to prove what is unprovable and that Professor Cassese disassembles in one line. The statement is inappropriate and illegitimate. And it is serious to fail the examination of constitutional law by Professor Cassese with a simple reason: without emergency there is no state of emergency. [[Applause]] You're lying to Italy and the Italians. She's lying. Professor Zangrillo, head of San Raffaele, said: On April 18, it was an important date. That day was the last day when, in a large hospital in Milan like ours, we had a serious patient in intensive care with the Covid-19. From then on, we haven't had any more patients with that kind of symptoms. From us, the virus clinically no longer exists. I am still quoting Professor Bassetti, director of the Clinic for infectious diseases at the San Martino Hospital in Genoa. So don't talk; these are people who risked their lives to save other lives. He confirms today: "Who like me and many other colleagues has operated and is operating in Italian hospitals, he knows well that we are no longer in emergency. The real emergency, the hospital, for which we were all concerned, that is, the one represented by having a bed for all, an oxygen mask for all, a fan for all, has passed. Those who claim otherwise go for a ride in Italian hospitals. Dear Members who want to prove otherwise, go to San Martino di Genova and be accompanied by Professor Bassetti. The emergency is only in your head and is a damage to Italy and the Italians, confirmed by those who fought the emergency. [[Applause]] I do not quote Professor Clementi and Professor De Donno, but I mention some fellow journalists, not all of them, but some of them, who give us the war bulletin every day. I dedicate to them a thought by Mark Twain, who wrote: the journalist is the one who distinguishes the truth from the false and then publishes the false. In this historical period we are absolutely living in this Orwellian truth. This is today's bulletin. To date, tonight, there are 40 hospitalized in the ICU. Yesterday, out of 48,000 swabs, 181 cases. Today, fortunately, the dead have fallen to 11. On an average day of this year, the dead were 1,800; on an average day like today, against the 11 dead, not Covid-19, but with Covid-19, 658 Italians died from cardiovascular diseases and 485 Italians from cancer. These are the data that makes us believe that, if you are the only ones throughout Europe to extend the state of emergency, they either did not understand anything all the others or you are in bad faith. To the eye, you are in bad faith, because the numbers would lead you to feel. [[Applause]] As far as real emergencies are concerned, apart from the fact that, certainly not a Legist, not a center-right mayor, but the mayor of Lampedusa, Totò Martello, declared yesterday: if the government does not declare it, the state of emergency for Lampedusa I declare it. And this state of emergency is not linked to the Covid-19, but it is linked to the landings that this Government, together with others, is allowing, if not organizing, in this country. The only tourists we are seeing, in fact, are those with dogs and hats, who land in Lampedusa and then disappear for half Italy [[Applause]] At today's date, last year there were 3,599 landings; on today's date, this year there are 12.533 landings. I no longer believe, having worked on it, that it is inability, but I fear that it is complicity with human traffickers. [[Applause]] , because there is a limit to inability and I think that this limit is largely exceeded. It is mainly the Southern regions that are paying for your complicity: on July 17th 30 run away from Messina, this week 184 run away from Caltanissetta, 100 run away from Porto Empedocle, 30 run away from Brindisi, 23 run away from Umbria, etc., etc. I fear that at the European summits, in order to be given some loans, which perhaps will come, you have signed a bill of exchange in white, to return to transform Italy into the refugee camp that Italy does not deserve. [[Applause]] These are the numbers. If it is not strong in constitutional law, it is at least so in mathematics: 12,000 is larger than 3,000. Unless someone wants to feed. I am not a conspiracyist, but if one puts in sequence a shameful and unbecoming behavior of the judiciary, because justice at the Palamara is not the justice that deserves the country [[Applause]] , the closure of the carabinieri's barracks, the ban on demonstrations, the extension of the state of emergency, some other democratic suspension and - why not? - also some other electoral postponement and perhaps also the postponement of the choice of presidencies of parliamentary committees, I fear that the only state of emergency that the country is experiencing is that of the majority of government, who no longer knows where to bang his head, because the Italians want to live again quietly [[Applause]] As for the school, the subversive city council member to the public education of the Tuscany Region, who I fear is neither Salvinian, nor Legist, nor sovereignist, on behalf of all the city councilmen to the school, of all the Italian Regions, wrote today to Minister Azzolina, worried, because we do not know if, as, when, with what funds, in which classes and with which times the Italian schools will reopen. One of the few things we have understood is that there is a ban on the purchase of wheelchairs. Speaking of emergency, the ABC of Italian seismic zones teaches us that, in the event of an earthquake, children take refuge under the benches. Where do the kids take refuge if you buy the stalls with the wheels? [[Applause]] And if, God forbid, something happens, what do they do? Minister Azzolina is not attacked because she is a woman and of the 5 Stars. Minister Azzolina is attacked because he is unable to do his job [[Applause]] , because it does not respond to students, families, precarious, principals and mayors [[Applause]] She is the wrong woman in the wrong place and you know it too, that defender per party taken [[Applause]] I'm sorry, because you don't mess with school. I understand the embarrassment of defending who's in the wrong place at the wrong time. The emergency, Mr President, is the economic one. Tomorrow will be in the square the consultants of the job, that I think are one of the most peaceful categories, quieter, more laborious and quieter of the Italian history, that they have broken the boxes to chase decrees of the Government, that they are ininterpretable also from the professionals [[Applause]] The emergency is not linked to the Covid-19, but is linked to the integration fund, which has not yet arrived to many. Today there were street traders, last week they announced the tax strike other dangerous subversives, the doctors accountants. The colleagues of the center-right are right: instead of closing the Italians in the house, closed in the drawer the 12 million accounts of Equitalia, which risk to be the final slash for families and businesses. [[Applause]] Balance and cancellation, fiscal peace. This is the real emergency: 12 million debitory folders. The social emergency denounces an increase in the use of drugs and certainly those who celebrate in this period are the large pharmaceutical companies, to which maybe someone is related. The plasma treatment is not good, because it is democratic and free, but the billionaire businesses of the big pharmaceutical companies are good. Friends of the Five Stars, you've gone wrong. [[Applause]] From the defense of the sovereign people, to the defence of the interest of the multinational drug: what a sad end. But everyone reaps what he sows. On tourism... [[Comments.]] Time? I think I have the right to finish the speech, if that's not too much. [[Call the president back.]] This majority and this government are exceptional, who not only want to impose a truth that does not exist, but also demand that all the Italian people applaud their truth that does not exist. [[Applause]] We represent Italy as free women and men. [[Applause]] If it bothers you, get out of this House, because we are still a majority in the country and we will again be a majority in this Parliament. [[Applause]] Because sooner or later the Italians will vote, without mask and giving their hand. Without a mask and a hand! [[Applause. Comments]] I close with a grateful thought. Everyone reaps what he sows. If you plan to gag the Italians, with the strategy of fear and closure, you are wrong, because you do the evil of the country. The image that I like about this country is that of Beatrice Vittoria, who was born two days ago in the hospital of Mantua by a mother who was cured by Covid-19, thanks to the plasma treatment of Dr. De Donno, and represents those Italians and those Italians who do not give up and who do not pretend to believe the lies that you try to lead us to unified networks. [[Applause]] Long live Italy, live freedom, live people who want to love and work quietly. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u60	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u61	About what, Senator Lanzi? LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I am speaking on the order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. LANZI (M5S). The senator who preceded me was not interrupted for all his speech, but spoke for fourteen minutes and thirty seconds. If you say it's ten minutes, it's ten minutes, not fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u62	[[Applause. Comments]] You can check. That's not fair.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u63	I would point out that in this House you have all gone too far. [[Comments.]] Every time I sign it. [[Comments]] I've never interrupted anyone. [[Comments. Call the president back.]] Please, Senator De Bertoldi. I've already explained that every time I write because I know that then someone protests, and in my paper it turns out that everyone has gone through, and from all sides.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u66	CIOFFI (M5S). Mr President, President Conte has explained to us what it means to extend the state of emergency; he has enlightened us on the technical issue of the extension, namely that it is only a civil protection order power under Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2018. He also reminded us that since 2014 the state of emergency has been declared 154 times and 84 times an extension has been decided. There are also other cases of emergency state that we could mention: for example, in 2003, with the second Berlusconi Government, the state of national emergency was declared for the delicate international landscape following the war in Iraq. It seems to me that at the time there were as ministers both Senator Gasparri and Senator Calderoli, so maybe a little' they understand and can illuminate the center-right on what the state of emergency means. Again, in 2010 the state of emergency for SARS was declared, and it seems to me that even then Senator La Russa was minister. It is very unusual, then, to hear, from the one who asked about the full powers about a year ago, that this extension is an illegitimate act. Those who ask for full powers may want to do something; they did not understand well what they wanted to do with it, perhaps they did not know it well either. It's so interesting to hear about fear. President Conte reminded us that we absolutely do not want to fuel fear, a right and sacred theme, because it is not with fear that things are done. In this regard, I would like to read an interesting passage which quotes these words: "We were already blind when we became blind, fear blinded us, fear will keep us blind." It is a passage taken from Saramago's book "Checità" which perhaps everyone should reread to understand what that book meant. There are many interesting passages. We can also quote a few figures, since numbers have been provided. Three days ago, the World Health Organization told us that there were 300,000 new cases in one day. Perhaps this makes us understand that a virus of this type intervenes globally, and if there was a peak in infection in one day there might be a problem of returning the virus. At this point we must thank not only the Government, but above all the Italian citizens, who were very careful using the masks to make sure that the infection did not spread. [[Applause]] This really is a merit that we must give to our citizens. Yet, if in Italy we have had, unfortunately, 35,000 deaths, there have been 655,000 worldwide and we have reached a number of contagions of 16 million: a dramatic situation on a global level. And it is at the global level that we have to confront ourselves because we have to understand that the virus travels fast and how important it is to be careful about everything we do. The virus put us in front of an important fork. In the world there was a time when a change of direction occurred. It was the end of World War II; there was World War I, then there was the crisis of 1929, World War II and, at that historic moment, there was a change of direction. We must remember history because thanks to it we can really understand what the road ahead is. We are facing a path in which neoliberalism which dominated the international political system, in which inequalities have increased incredibly, that neoliberalism which has reached a time of crisis, has also produced very particular consequences. It would be enough to quote a few figures. An interesting element we can draw from reading the capitalization values of some companies. Let me give you some examples. Apple capitalizes 1,636 billion dollars, Microsoft 1,500, Amazon itself, Alphabet 1,044. These four companies alone capitalize on $5,754 billion, more than Japan's GDP, which is the third state per GDP in the world and these companies are all based in a tax haven. Then perhaps we should understand what the objective is and understand that there is a need for a stronger state, there is a need for governments and peoples to regain their sovereignty in order to try to tell these societies that what we must do is the collective interest and not that of individual societies. Besides all these companies are based in a tax paradise; the US ones are based in Delaware, the Chinese ones, including, for example, Alibaba, is based in the Cayman Islands. This is another issue with which we must confront ourselves; the fight against tax havens, which are not only international ones. There are the intra-Community tax havens with which we must fight and to which we must turn our attention. At the historical moment I was talking about, it was understood that the strength of the collective, the strength of peoples and people, when they are together, was important and very strong. At the beginning of 1900, Russian naturalist Kropotkin wrote a beautiful book, entitled "The Mutual Support: A Factor of Evolution." He had examined the behavior of animals in Siberia and had opposed the Darwinian theories, in which Darwin had studied the behavior of animals... (Brussio). But if you shut up, maybe you learn something, because you seem a little ignorant. [[Applause. Comments.]] Kropotkin had studied the behavior of animals in Siberia and opposed Darwinian theories, explaining that, in situations of lack of resources, only cooperation between people, in that case the cooperation between animals, made the species strong. Perhaps we should resume that lesson and understand what it said: we need a new force in which people get together. We should also take the example of that beautiful 1973 writing "Energy and equity" in which Ivan Illich explained that only a different system could change the world. Once again we are faced with the fact that we do not understand, we are blind, as Saramago said, in the face of the realities that we live: when we see that in Antarctica we reach 20 degrees, perhaps we should start to understand that this is the way to go. We must open our eyes, we must realize the situation in which we are, because only in this way do we impose a new political strategy, a new path, which is what the Government is trying to achieve with all its strength and the whole majority is compact in supporting this action, in order to imagine a world that is different, in which there is a force that is opposed to total liberalism, which has dominated over the last forty years. [[Applause.]] I would like to remind the bishops of the liberal revolution that the gentleman who published the newspaper "Liberal Revolution" many years ago was beaten by the fascists and died in Paris, just to remind history occasionally, because it is always good to remember what the truth is. [[Comments.]] I know you're getting mad, that you're happy to hear yourself say these things, telling the story, but it's always very interesting to know what the reality is. We are faced with this reality and this is the path we want to take, this is the political action that we want to put in place because here we must also talk about politics. Our path, which we all hope for, leads us to a different way of interpreting the sense of union between people. We have always said that the 5 Star Movement was not here when certain things were done and today it continues to say this, because - in the end - it is the force of the collective, of the citizens and of the people that must be at the centre of the system. We must always remember Sandro Pertini's words and finish, Mr President. [[Comments.]] I see you don't want to learn, but you will die in your blessed ignorance. [[Applause. Protests.]] There can be no freedom without social justice and there can be no social justice without freedom, because - otherwise - it is only the freedom to die of hunger. These are the words that are at the heart of the action of the Government and the majority: equity and social justice, associated with the theme of freedoms. [[Applause]] This is the direction we are going towards and this is the support of the entire majority towards the Government. And if there is a need for the state of extension, we are completely convinced that it is useful and necessary. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u68	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u69	CRUCIOLI (M5S). Mr President, I am not one of those who claim that the extension of the state of emergency underlies authoritarian anti-democratic pressure, nor among those who - viciously - have argued that the government is spreading infected to justify anti-democratic measures. However, it is a fact that the extension we are discussing will also lead to the extension of extraordinary instruments, such as ordinances and decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers. This situation, if it was acceptable at the time when the pandemic had all its strength and virulence, today - in my opinion - is no longer so. To those who remind us that there have been many other states of emergency, I would remind you that - but this is the first time that Parliament has delegated the Government to regulate the fundamental rights of citizens by means of administrative acts. I repeat that this could be tolerated in the peak of the pandemic, but today it is no longer. By this I do not mean that we must lower our guard, but return to the beehive of the Constitution and regulate what is necessary with ordinary instruments, even of urgency, such as decrees-laws. I say this because I fear that the majority are giving to posterity a dangerous precedent, that a future majority (this - yes - that could be driven by anti-democratic drives) could use not for the good of Italy. For this reason, I shall not vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority, contrary to the Group's statement. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u72	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, I speak quickly to say that this Government has subcontracted emergency management to technicians or supposed technicians, who have never been chosen by the citizens to face the challenges of our nation. However, the most serious fact of this matter is the absolute inability of the Government to manage this emergency. It has been said several times that we will not return to normal, because there is no cure, and that we will return to normal only when we have a vaccine. Well, a cure has already been mentioned, that of the hyperimmune plasma of Professor De Donno; it is fantastic that then they were donated by President Conte and the Government millions of euros to the Gavi Foundation of Mr Bill Gates, while instead to Professor De Donno were sent NAS. These are the facts. [[Applause]] But there's another one. Shortly before the lockdown, so in unsuspecting times, I had suggested to Minister Hope to use medical cannabis, which has been legal since 2007 and which is sold in pharmacy. [[Comments]] Listen. They laughed behind me and some gave me reason, because I had asked to experiment and evaluate the opportunity of using medical cannabis. Well, some papers laughed at me. Now I am reading an Adnkronos a few days ago: "Coronavirus," from the cannabis 'weapon' useful against serious Covid effects. [[Comments]] Listen: Cannabisdiol, or Cbd, non-psychoactive metabolite of Cannabis sativa, is - so you may like it - can help reduce the cytochemical storm and excessive pulmonary inflammation that has proved lethal for many patients with Covid-19. (...) could help patients with respiratory difficulties by avoiding treatments such as mechanical ventilation and reducing the risk of death. In the Netherlands, Mr President, since the beginning of lockdown, if you have no symptoms for twenty-four hours you are healed; in Italy we keep the weak positives at home. There is a little girl from the Milan hinterland who has been home for four months, because it turns out to be weakly positive and the swabs are all contradictory. Once it is positive and once it is negative; it does not leave the house because according to you and according to the task force it takes two consecutive negatives. Today, with this extension and with these measures, without any vision of the future, we destroy the public coffers to benefit the usual known. Finally, we are mortgaged the future of our boys. For these reasons I shall vote against the motion for a resolution by the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u73	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u74	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u75	MARTELLI (Mixed). Mr President, a lot has been said in this House and a lot has been said here. I would just like, as a prodrome, to say that with numbers you don't fool me; I'm sorry, but the professional doesn't screw him. That being said, why am I going to vote against the motion for a resolution by the majority and in favour of the other motion for a resolution? Because this emergency, numbers to the hand, exists only in your heads. Sick calls to quarantine healthy and asymptomatic people, for whom the swabs made later gave contradictory results. Even your rule of two consecutive negative swabs collides with an obvious anomaly: if one is positive and the other is negative what do you do? Best of the five? Or seven, like in the NBA? With four negatives out of seven, is one person negative? Make thousands of swabs every day, so that you can raise the number of infected; and speak of infected people as if they were sick. The infected are not sick. [[Applause]] I remind you that professional ethics teaches that you must not turn a person who is not sick. Hippocrates said that and doctors take an oath on this. The case of Holland has been mentioned, where, after twenty-four hours of non-sympathy, you are healed and not contagious. So either the Dutch virus is like Wolf de Lupis, the virus so good, or the Dutch are dumb or something's wrong. Finally, you've imposed protocols that classify as dead Covid as virtually anyone. Despite this, the number of daily deaths is lower than the number of suicides in Italy. This is the emergency. You coined, thanks to the press, the term negator, to label, when you have no arguments, people who have a very reasoned thought. For example, Zangrillo suddenly became a negatorist, that is, a person to be silenced. This is not democracy. Quoting a psychologist, this is health fascism, so you have to say enough: Italians must return to live and get rid of the noose that you continue to hold on to their heads. Stop! [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u76	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion No 1 (text 2), tabled by Senators Marcucci, Perilli, De Petris, Pharaoh and Unterberger. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] With regard to motion for a resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani, with the contrary opinion of the Government, the entire first part (the premises) and the first paragraph of the device are precluded from extending the state of emergency, etc. The second paragraph shall be absorbed, from the point of view of the evolution of the epidemiological situation to the point of taking such measures by law or act having the force of law. As the motion for a resolution No 2 states a regulatory procedure which also provides that the Presidents of the Regions concerned are heard, in the event that the measures concern only a Region or certain specific Regions, or the President of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, in the event that they concern the entire national territory, I propose to put to the vote this second part of the said second paragraph of the commitment, from the words "heard the Presidents of the Regions concerned." I invite the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u77	Mr President, I am in favour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u78	I therefore refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the second part of the second paragraph of the commitment of motion for resolution No 2, tabled by Senators Romeo, Bernini and Ciriani, from the words "heard the Presidents of the Regions" until the end. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]] This concluded the communications of the President of the Council of Ministers. Since I still see so many requests in this respect, I would like to remind everyone precisely that tomorrow, immediately after the end of the debate on budgetary deviation, the Commissions are convened (just after the vote, first the odd ones, then the even ones, after an hour and a half).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u81	DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would just like to ask for one minute's attention, because today I would like to remind all of us and the whole nation of an important historical event that was celebrated forty years ago and saw an Italian, my fellow citizen of Barletta, climb on the roof of the world. Today, in fact, the fortieth anniversary of the Olympic gold in Moscow - it was July 28, forty years ago - by Pietro Mennea is celebrated. [[Applause.]] I want to remember him as a fellow citizen, because Mennea is Apulian, he is from Barletta and brought, in a world divided into two blocks and in a particular moment also for Italy, which for twenty seconds stopped, the name of Italy all over the world, winning the Olympic gold in Moscow. An important event that I absolutely wanted to remember, as I wanted to remember, as all the national news and the national press have done today, an unforgettable champion of the world of athletics and above all a national champion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u82	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u84	Saviane (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent times the province in which I live, Belluno, is hit hard by a large number of predations of the wolf, so much so that it has become daily news. The situation is no different in the Asiago plateau, Lessinia and neighbouring provinces. Last week I received a lot of calls from farmers who expressed their dismay at what is happening to their cattle, torn apart or wounded to death. I have received from the same farmers videos where you see scenes that call bloody is little, and for this reason I did not think to publish on my social profiles. I was so incredulous that I went to visit one of these farmers and unfortunately the confirmation was clear. I think it really is unacceptable that this situation, which should be handled with accuracy to ensure a healthy balance between the environment and man, should be passed in the total indifference of the representatives of this Government. I recall once again that the issue of the great predators is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Environment, so I invite the Minister of the Environment Costa and Minister D'Incà, who is from Belluno, to meet the people involved to understand the gravity of the situation. There is an economic aspect to consider, which is that of the risk of the disappearance of the entire agro-food chain of the territory, to which is added the possible closure of the activities by the breeders. But no less important is the security aspect of the citizen. Dogs and cats are pets that in principle lie in the yard or in the garden of the house, and not inside a fence, playing maybe with children and people. Equally serious is the aspect of man-animal affectivity: just the other day I saw the eyes full of tears of a child who caressed her little sheep agonizing from the wounds; animal of which she had cared for herself. I want to conclude with a consideration of a town in the Alpago, a land from which I come, which says: I would like the harmony and tranquility of the past to be restored. If the wolves were put to prey on the deer, it seems to me that the project is failing. We don't expect there to be the extinction of the alpagota sheep, local native breed and... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u85	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u87	MARILOTTI (M5S). Mr President, allow me to recall briefly Gianrico Tedeschi, a very beloved actor whose disappearance yesterday at the age of one hundred, is a loss for the world of culture and for all Italian anti-fascism. When, in November of last year, Professor Luciano Zani proposed to me to collect the story of the actor in the series of meetings that the library of the Senate had wanted to dedicate to the events of the Italian military internees, it seemed to me a deserved and necessary tribute. Germans, whom we commemorate today in the aftermath of his death, was one of the 800,000 soldiers captured by the Wehrmacht after September 8, 1943. He left for the Greek front in 1941, when he was 21 years old and was a student of letters, an intelligent and sympathetic second lieutenant. Arrested in the autumn of 1943 he did not accede to the Italian Social Republic and chose to face imprisonment. The books that we presented in the Minerva Palace last November have the merit of rebuilding the two years of imprisonment discounted by the actor in several lagers including Sandblastel and how the love for the theater helped him in the difficult task of survival. Many times the Italian military internees have in fact remembered that in the fields of internment spiritual health was as important as that of the body. Germans, like other protagonists of that period - on all I remember the partisan "Geppe", Nino Garau, also recently disappeared - chose not to immediately make known that experience: a difficult and painful path that of the internship, which the actor needed to elaborate, shred, digest before being able to share it. In the end, he shared this experience with other intellectuals such as Giovannino Guareschi, Alessandro Natta, Giuseppe Lazzati, Arturo Coppola, Giuseppe Novello, Roberto Rebora and Enzo Pace. Each of them had decisive experience of it for the commitment to a democratic Italy more just and far from the darkness of Nazi-fascist thought. In him, in Gianrico Tedeschi, to whom my tribute goes and I believe of the entire Assembly of Palazzo Madama, the discomfort for the years immediately following the Liberation was always vivid, when, for a time, the courageous choice, that is, the refusal of the membership of the military internees of the Social Republic, was not adequately valued. Many of them suffered unjust discrimination, now finally overcome. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u88	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u90	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, I am personally speaking on the point of order made by you last Wednesday, 22 July. Dear President Alberti Casellati, your call was more than legitimate. However, it could have done so in the end, but obviously for you, dear President, this call was so necessary that the scene of our President-in-Office of the Council, during an information day, for Italy, would have remained in history for a couple of minutes. I agree, however, to tell you that your reference to the rules was more harmful than the fact itself, that is, to have immortalized with the smartphone and not with the camera that historical moment. Damaged and I add irreverent, towards President Conte and all those Italians who followed the live television Rai. I should like to end by urging you to be consistent: that future calls should be made in a nominal manner, just as you did with me and Mrs Botto, above all so as not to be rude to all those other colleagues who, like me, have taken photos and videos on that occasion, perhaps from other sides that are also in opposition today and who have not so far had the same privilege of being called up on a personal television show, causing the President of the Council's information to be interrupted. Rules are rules, but they apply to everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u91	I would simply like to remind you that I have waited, as you will perfectly remember, for the President-in-Office of the Council to finish. [[Comments]] Allow me, I didn't interrupt. There was a long applause and I intervened only when she had to start talking again and there was a senator, another colleague of hers who had done it before and kept taking pictures. I have been waiting for this very moment not to interrupt the President-in-Office of the Council. On the other hand, however, I would like to remind you that perhaps, since there is a regulation that speaks clearly and that all of you senators should know, I should not even be on any occasion, whether or not there is a direct television, in the need to call to order the Rules that should be known by everyone. So I would have gladly spared myself this, if there had not been a repeated attitude, because I had not interrupted; his colleague was there, in the middle of the House, he continued to photograph, she had been signalled and I had left it alone, then she began and therefore, when the applause was over, I called you back as it should be done. In fact, it must be done nominally, as is always required by you when others do, so much so that, as you remember, I had urged, when you protested because someone took photographs, to tell me the name, because I could not locate it. Therefore my behavior is the same for everyone, because when a photographer nominally calls everyone, she like the others. We cannot therefore draw the President's attention when something happens to you, but it is fine when you call others back and I call them nominally, because double standards are not acceptable. Furthermore, I do not think that I am adopting a different treatment depending on the political parties that are in breach of the rules, because I have always called everyone, on one side and on the other. Therefore, I think I explained that there was no intention of ruining - you tell me - this important moment. I let the applause run out, and I came in before the Premier started. [[Comments]] Is it personal? Senator Perilli, I find this very disrespectful behavior of yours unacceptable. I have responded very politely to the kind senator, who spoke personally; she is a Leader and owes due respect to this Presidency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u92	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-28-LEG18-Senato-sed-245.ana.u93	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 29 July, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 8.58 p.m.
