ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:34 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Nisini, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u3	I inform you that on 8 April 2020 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Education and the Minister of University and Research (Conversion to Decree-Law No 22 of 8 April 2020) introducing urgent measures on the regular conclusion and orderly start of the school year and on the conduct of state examinations (1774).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, I wish to express feelings of closeness and emotional participation in the pain of Senator Antonino Caruso's family and friends, who died prematurely on April 2nd. Lawyer, fine jurist, man of great civic sense and strong moral values, Antonino Caruso was an important protagonist of Italian institutions and political life. First elected to the Senate in 1996, he has always lived his parliamentary mandate with passion, competence and tireless commitment, at the service of the citizens. During his long parliamentary activity, which lasted for as many as four legislatures, Senator Antonino Caruso was the promoter and rapporteur of important draft laws. I recall, in particular, the many measures concerning the protection of minors, against paedophilia, the exploitation of women and the reduction in slavery; fundamental laws in the interests of those who are most fragile and need protection, which Parliament has adopted with great majority, also thanks to the initiative, the capacity for mediation and the dedication of Senator Antonino Caruso. His contribution to the work of the Justice Commission, of which he was President during the 14th legislature, was fundamental, obtaining the appreciation and esteem of all parliamentary groups, as well as the staff of the Senate of the Republic for its uncommon human and professional qualities. His disappearance leaves a great void in the world of politics, leaves a great void in our souls. With him we shared significant moments of our institutional path. We will lack his sensitivity, his deep respect for the interlocutor, the ability to always value his contribution, looking to the general interest rather than the particular one. Ideal solid, rooted, that have made Antonino Caruso an example of coherence, rigour and profound humanity. In remembrance of Senator Antonino Caruso I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. (The sitting was suspended at 3 [[observe a minute's silence]] ). ( [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u7	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to join in your words of remembrance of Senator Caruso. I didn't miss the emotion with which he wanted to remember it. Many colleagues did not have the opportunity and luck to meet Antonio Caruso, whose parliamentary activity from 1996 to 2013 took place, intense, here at the Senate of the Republic. I believe that the emotional tone of your speech also stems from the shared experience you certainly had in the Commission with Senator Antonino Caruso, who presided over it. I remember that the whole course of his life and his political journey were intertwined on dozens of occasions with Senator Caruso. In the legislative period from 2008 to 2013 he was the leader of the PdL, in a very demanding legislature and I would say sometimes tumultuous, where also the themes of justice have often created rifts and tiring researches of convergences. Senator Caruso, as President Alberti Casellati recalled, was on many occasions capable of synthesis, solutions, research of norms that could, even on themes often subject to harsh and hard confrontation, find a moment of synthesis. He has dealt with many subjects, not only those of criminal importance that have often filled the chronicles and also the activities of the Senate and Parliament, but also, as has been mentioned, many ratifications of international conventions, the rights of children, the rights of women. We could say that Senator Caruso was a lover of law and a lover of rights, because he has always dealt with a thousand issues with a great ability to know the law. He did not like to tread the proscenium of politics in the strict sense, but in matters within his competence he was a great point of reference. I also remember the political contribution he gave when, in the stages of the construction of political subjects, from the National Alliance to the PdL and in other phases, Senator Caruso was traditionally entrusted with the task of defining the rules, the statutes, which are an important element of political life. There is little talk about this because the operational aspects, the external aspects and the rules that we give ourselves are often prevalent in the organization of politics, not always and not everywhere are punctually respected. Antonio Caruso also in that field of politics has always poured his competence, his knowledge, his ability to help define the rules of democratic coexistence in political organizations. His activity, therefore, perhaps deserved more the spotlight of the proscenium, but it took place with great competence, with great wisdom and with the unanimous respect of all. He died in these days for causes other than the dominant ones; he had a life troubled from the point of view of health: his heart had caused him recurrent accidents and operations, which had often overlapped with his parliamentary activity that, as soon as he could, resumed with great dedication and with great seriousness, facing the efforts and difficulties that unfortunately interrupted his earthly journey at sixty-nine years. We want to remember him as a personal friend, as a parliamentarians who honored the Groups of which he was a member and the Senate of the Republic and to join in the words of President Alberti Casellati to renew the condolences to his wife Paola and daughters. Antonio Caruso honored the Senate, honored the Italian Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u10	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, normally, when a Member is commemorated, the Members' Group is responsible for making a request to the President of the Senate to do so. It is no coincidence that on this occasion it was the President, even before we made our request, who called us to inform us of the decision to take advantage of the first possible session to commemorate Antonino Caruso personally. Antonino, for those who did not know him, that is, the vast majority of you, was somehow my opposite. And yet, since he was young, so long before he was political, we were brothers, born in the same country, or rather, to the truth he was born in Milan but his father - who was the magistrate of Cassazione - was my father's college companion and inseparable friend. I was Antonio's inseparable friend. Together we began to be lawyers, he civilist and I criminalist; together we took about ten coffees a day in the court of Milan; together we had the first girlfriends, friends and friends; together we founded Radio University, together with Amina, the wife of Maurizio Gasparri; together we gave life to Brothers of Italy and Antonio Caruso did it as outgoing senator, because the small first result of Brothers of Italy did not allow the re-election of all the senators who had given him life. He was one of the founders of the Brothers of Italy, but all this belongs to my personal history that is intertwined, as those who have listened to me will have understood, in an indissoluble way with that of Antonio, Antonino at the registry. In fact, Caruso, in the Senate, has shown that a right-wing man, a deeply right-wing man, can very well be appreciated by the whole House, can very well be the protagonist in dealing with issues such as violence against women, pedophilia, short divorce and anything else that usually, in the collective imagination, are more the prerogative of other political parties, even if it cannot be said that they are not the same as the right-wing. Antonio was above all a jurist, who did not by chance find harmony in this branch of Parliament with President Casellati; but also with Pera, his great friend, who was president of the Senate, and with all the colleagues of the Justice Commission that he chaired. Antonio was also a loving father. Ludovica, Lulu, the daughter, is at the eighth month of pregnancy and in a month, a month and a half will be born a niece who will not have the chance to see. To Ludovica and Paola, the wife, goes mine and our emotional thought, because Antonio - it is always said so, but he is really felt in those who knew him - remains alive and is here with us. I hope that not only those who sit between the benches of the right or those of Forza Italia, which is the continuation of the People of Freedom of which he was also senator, (first together with the National Alliance and later in the PdL) but those who have had the opportunity to know him as happened to us who have had him more closely as a friend, will not forget him. Hi, Antonio. Thank you Antonio. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u11	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1766. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteur carried out the oral report and the general discussion and replies of the rapporteur and the representative of the Government took place. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u12	Mr President, I am speaking to inform you that there is a delay in the boiling phase at the moment in the General Accounting Office of the State. So, I'd ask for a suspension of work until 11:30.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u15	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal of the League Group, in the light of the announcement that the Minister has made now, since there are so many senators who have to return home and we know that transport, both by air and by other means, is a bit difficult at this time (and we all know the reasons for that), if the text of the maxi amendment basically reflects the decisions taken in the Commission (but of course you must confirm this, Minister) and there are no changes, even of substance, we could continue with respect to the timetable - I address the President - which we have agreed, however, starting the general discussion on the issue of trust. In fact, if from a formal point of view there is not yet the boiled text and it has not yet been presented, from a substantial point of view we know very well that in two hours the boiled text will arrive and we will discuss confidence. So we can continue, of course, with the Government confirming that the text, in the vast majority of its content, is the same as we voted in the Commission. If colleagues agree with this proposal, we could proceed. At most we will have a few minutes' delay on explanations of vote, but we would not fundamentally compromise the fact that the senators can do their job and return to the time and manner required, as set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u18	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I believe that President Romeo's proposal is of common sense and allows all the groups to express their opinion on such an important subject and on such an important measure, even at the stage of the debate. We will now hear the Minister, but if he confirms that the text essentially follows the one known by all the Groups, I think we can proceed quietly, if all the other Leaders agree.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u21	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I agree with the proposal made by Senator Romeo, which I believe will facilitate everyone's return.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u22	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u23	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u24	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, the proposal is also good for us, partly because we know what the difficulties are for us to return. On the contrary, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the Quaestors who sent the timetables for trains and airplanes, but as we have seen, they are also very scarce. I therefore believe that we will have to continue to raise the awareness of the Minister of Transport on this issue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u27	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, President Romeo's proposal is also good for us.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u28	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u29	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u30	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, my group agrees too.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u31	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u32	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u33	MAIORIN (M5S). Mr President, it is also good for our Group to accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u34	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u35	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u36	CIRIANI (FdI). Mr President, my group agrees too.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u37	Mr Minister, they would all agree on the possibility of continuing, if you tell us that the text essentially corresponds to the one that the Commission has fired. If there are any changes, I would ask you to take action to read them.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u38	Mr President, for the sake of fairness and transparency, I must point out that the text follows completely the text that came out of the Commission, subject to the following changes made because some rules are already included in the decrees-school law and liquidity that I would have read to you later, at the time of the declaration of trust. At this moment I want to tell you with the utmost transparency that we have repealed the following articles of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020: Article 17, laying down urgent provisions on the testing of medicinal products and medical devices for the epidemiological emergency by Covid, which is Article 40 of the Decree-Law liquidity taken at par; then there is Article 49, bearing the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, which is contained within the Decree-Law liquidity in Article 13; then there is Article 53, laying down measures for export credit, contained within Article 2 of the Decree-Law liquidity; Article 62, suspending the term of tax and contribution payments, limited to paragraph 7, which falls within Article 19 of the Decree-Law liquidity; Article 70, which strengthens the Customs and Monopolies Agency, which falls under Article 31 of the Decree-Law liquidity. There are also anticipations of the entry into force of certain provisions, for reasons of urgency, already contained in amending proposals approved by the Commission. The first is the extension of the audience of recipients of ordinary wage integration and cash-integration treatments by way of derogation, specifying that workers employed from 24 February to 17 March 2020 are also covered, which is Amendment 19,1000, to (a), No 2, and point (d), No 2, only to the words: "in paragraph 3, first period, after the word: "date" add the following: "or hired between 24 February 2020 and 17 March 2020", which is contained within Article 41 of the Decree-Law on liquidity. The second anticipation is the exemption from the stamp tax for applications relating to the derogation fund, which is Amendment 19,000 (d), No 4, which falls under Article 24 of the liquidity decree-law. Then there is a third advance, relating to contractual provisions for medicinal products, which is amendment 17.02.000, which falls within Article 38 of the liquidity decree-law. There is also a fourth anticipation of the provisions on immigration, i.e. amendment 86.0.1 (text 2), limited to the consequential part relating to Article 44, which falls within Article 34 of the liquidity decree-law. A fifth anticipation concerns the facilitations for the purchase of the first house, i.e. amendment 71.0.16 (text 3), which falls within Article 24 of the liquidity decree-law. Finally, the last anticipation concerns the provisions on vocational training, namely amendment 87.0.1, which fall under Article 6 of the School Decree-Law. There are therefore amendments because there are provisions contained, precisely, in the two decree-laws which were published in the Official Journal yesterday.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u39	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u40	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u41	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, taking note of what the Minister has just said, it is likely that all the groups will need twenty minutes, not to check, but just to go into the issues that have been submitted to us. My proposal would then be to continue with the discussion of the measure, subject to the verification that we will be doing in the next few minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u42	Senator Marcucci, I ask you whether this is your requirement or whether you are a requirement for everyone, because it seems to me that this need had not been expressed, unless, after the Minister's speech, there is a request from all the Groups for a quarter-hour or twenty-minute break so that we can verify the text.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u43	I believe that this is a requirement of all the groups. In any case, Mr President, I am submitting the proposal to my colleagues, because the changes communicated by the Minister, although due to the fact that some provisions have been absorbed by other measures, namely by two other decrees-laws, nevertheless deserve a minimum of in-depth consideration.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u44	Therefore, since there is agreement between all the groups on Senator Marcucci's proposal, I suspend the sitting, which will resume at 10.20 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 10:02 a.m. and resumed at 10:24 a.m.) I'm sensing that live television is on. I therefore call on my colleagues who will take action to ensure that the time allotted is respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, we have accepted the invitation to cooperate that President Mattarella has addressed to the opposition forces and at a time of great difficulty for the country. Our willingness has been declared by all the opposition leaders and, for Forza Italia, by President Berlusconi and Vice President Tajani, but with regret we can say that, in addition to the excellent relationship and courtesy - for which I certainly thank the people who represented the Government in the context of the confrontation and in the Commission - there was no response from the majority. Certainly we have presented ourselves by proposing what our political sensitivity today believes to represent for the discomfort that the country is experiencing, realizing that, not being your government of national unity but of part, the elements of political sensitivity are part of our program and not of yours. We thought, however, that we could make a contribution, limited in time - absolutely limited in time, was our wish - linked to this need. We have therefore brought to the attention issues such as the temporary introduction of vouchers, if not for everything, for some sectors; the use in the improvement, employment, of those who receive the income of citizenship, giving them the space to be able to use it in the activities allowed at this time; the theme of the dry coupon, given the serious moment of difficulties of owners and tenants; the theme of the peer schools, with 900,000 families involved, in particular for the kindergartens and, again, the bureaucracy, the maximum time of clinical manifestation of the pathology regarding the Inps, banks, credit, social discomfort. The answer was nothing. Indeed, in relation to certain situations such as the INPS, there has been confirmation in the Commission. I am referring to the maximum possible extension of the space for intermediaries in order to be able to intervene on the questions: the answer of the INPS, to the work done in the Commission, was that it is not possible; there are completely excluded professional orders that could have alleviated the difficulties that that institution is experiencing. The answer was nothing. If the vegetables cost double, if the INPS will pay later than expected and declared by the government, probably little counts. Another issue we are facing today: the European Union. Just today there will be an important meeting of the Eurogroup that will cover the rescue of the Europe system, not only of countries like Italy that are currently the ones that go in advance of the coronavirus and the pandemic. We are aware that the issue of national securities would be at very high rates but we absolutely must intervene firmly with respect to the future of this reality, to the future of the European Union, because otherwise it does not work anymore and cannot be hostage to the larger country or a smaller country. Colleagues, our hope and hope is that we can find a balance to make the area of the European Union stand, to make it stronger, to change the mechanisms that do not work. This vote was to represent the unity of a country, the unity of all the representatives of the people against a single invisible, subtle and violent enemy. You had to distinguish, lords of the government and the majority, from what you have been so far, divided between you and united against us. Now realize: it is not with us or against us that you have the challenge. You have to confront Italy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u46	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, until a few days ago the first question in the morning was addressed to themselves: we were wondering what our day would be. Our agendas were full of commitments, some very important appointments, others simply dense. Our gaze was often fixed on a mobile phone, looking mostly for confirmations, ransoms from news or fake news. To the question "How are you?" we answered "Racing." After two months, we wake up in the morning and worry about the others. Our first thought is to understand how others are, how the situation is going in the world, when and how it will end. When we look at the screens, we do it to connect with each other, so we can still have a relationship, so that we can get into empathy, build, discuss, have meetings. Our agenda is emptyer, but when we have an appointment, it's important. To the question "How are you?" we have attributed an important, true and empathetic value: we are really interested in knowing how the other is. The dynamics in our families have also changed a lot because many purely masculine jobs are currently in lockdown, while women's jobs in school, banks, nursing homes (RSA), hospitals and journalism are still considered necessary by the last decree of the President of the Council of Ministers and, therefore, our family dynamics and our daily lives have changed a lot. It's a paradigm shift that really pervaded us. In two months we have seen 17,000 people die without being able to say goodbye; we have seen over 100 doctors die in the front line; we have seen factories closed. When we travel, from the train window we see a still, still, empty and silent world. There has been a collapse of the gross domestic product of 60-70 percent. We are like this, we are the ones from before, but we are the ones in the middle of the coronavirus storm, divided between those who must stay at home and those who cannot stay at home. And among those who can't stay at home are, of course, the doctors, the forces of order, those who work in agriculture, in supermarkets, in the food supply chain, and there are us, we who have been hesitant to realize the gravity of the situation and that we have perhaps delayed. Then we were taken by this succession of decrees of the president of the Council of Ministers and other measures, the decree-law "Covid 1" n. 6, the decree-law "Covid 2 red zones" n. 9, the decree-law n. 11 for the containment of the epidemic in the field of judicial activity, the decree-law n. 18 cures Italy, the decree-law n. 22 in the matter of school and the decree-law n. 23 in the matter of liquidity. The Government has also struggled not to be dragged by the current of needs, emergencies, news, organization, major international and European decisions. Parliament hesitated. Parliament has been moved by this urgent decree, it has been disoriented, it has not been able to quickly take the pace of online meetings, digital amendments, this profound capacity to see the change of Italy, to see a new reality and to understand that everything needs to be regulated again, everything needs to be re-examined, everything needs to be re-examined, in the emergency phase and, above all, now, in the phase of restarting and reconstruction. Close was easy: brutal, but easy. In a few days we have been deprived of our fundamental constitutional freedoms, at times of our democracy of freedom of movement, of work and even, since yesterday, of reception. Staying at home, we are told, was a decision of great responsibility. I don't think it was a decision; I think it was a reaction, a behavior dictated by fear. When this feeling of great fear, when this great emergency we are experiencing will begin to subside, our gaze and our fear will leave room for reasoning again: there will be those who will want to understand why we have not been sufficiently timely, what we have wrong, what can be done better. There are already today those who want to start again and who want to understand how you can start again. This is a decision for politics and politics knows that the balance between the health crisis, the economic crisis and the social crisis is at a breaking point; we cannot delay in deciding how to start again. Today we place the question of trust on the care Italy. Why are we doing this? There are no tags: we do it because we need to go fast. The care Italy is an old photograph, it is a photograph twenty-three days ago; it is the photograph of a thought that has a different conception of what were the priorities and it is a decree without resources, that no longer has the drive to be able to give the answers. It must therefore simply be converted quickly. However, it was not a trivial step, it was an important step, for two reasons: it gave answers to the health needs of civil protection, it gave the very first responses to the economic world, but above all it saw a change of European paradigm. We have been able to use the 25 billion euros of the Italian cure thanks to the decision of the European institutions to derogate from the Stability and Growth Pact. It was a very important passage, which until just a few months ago was not taken for granted. The other important step of the European institutions that we have been witnessing these days is the decision of the European Central Bank to create a hat with quantitative easing, to ensure the financial drive and supply of resources it serves at this stage. I believe that those who say that Europe, understood as European institutions, has not done anything or is not doing anything - at this time it is describing a destitute reality of foundation. It is true that the difficulty lies in the composition of individual states; we see it in these days and hours at the Eurogroup, I am referring to the difficulty of finding a common vision and solidarity. I believe that criticism of this Eurogroup stalemate should come more from Europeanists than from sovereignists. It seems to me normal to imagine that the sum of sovereign states can only lead to a Europe of rigor. I do not find the criticism of those who call for a Europe that does not. What is objective is that Europe has given us the opportunity to allocate 25 billion euros for care in Italy, while another 35 billion euros we will allocate shortly with the deviation foreseen by the next decree of April. They are fundamental resources, but it must be clear that the great push is on Italy's shoulders. The push we are giving Italy to share is in debt on the state budget: in debt on businesses, professionals and small entrepreneurs, in debt on families. It must therefore be clear and clear that this situation cannot last. The real economy must start again and, to this end, the work that has been done in the Budget Committee on the next measure is important, not so much for the little more than 90 amendments that we have approved to amend it and to make it better, but for the ten majority agendas that we have written and which commit the Government, in the next April decree, to a new strategic vision of restart. We cannot imagine starting again in the same way that we closed our activities a month ago. What has happened to us must pervade us and must give us the opportunity to start again with new resources, with a new cohesion, with a new empathy, with a new ability to rebuild with great cohesion and great strength. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u48	You are registered to speak Senator La Russa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u49	Mr President, I would like to address you and the courtesy of the Undersecretary - even if he is in all other business - to point out that it is not an obligation of the Government to attend with a Minister in Parliament (I am well aware that I am a long-standing Member). However, the presence of a Minister of the Government may not hurt on occasions such as this and at a time when there is so little talk with Parliament. This is also a signal from a government that wants to do everything for itself and that, I do not mean that it despises Parliament, for pity's sake, it does not care about the suggestions that come from the political forces (not only those of opposition, because yesterday I also heard majority speeches calling for a greater capacity for dialogue with the Government) and also of Parliament as a whole. I am also thinking of the amendment of the last minute of the measure; they first told us about the boiling, then that it was not that and that they were changing parts of the text. We are debating without having the final text of the decree-law whose conversion we are about to vote on. This is the reality, the daughter of the inattention - I don't mean worse - or the only confusion that exists in this Government, where even the parts that should be for Italy are half of the Movimento 5 Stars and half of the PD, as if it were a partition like those that have accustomed us for a long time. Mr President, although we know that this would have meant an undue advantage for the President of the Council and for the Government, we have lowered our tones using only collaborative ones and we have made proposals one after the other, conscious - I repeat - that this would have meant an advantage in terms of pseudo or real acceptance of the President of the Council, who now - as we say - is like parsley in every dish: we find him in all the networks, he pops out while there is Fiorello and in other television programs. We said it doesn't matter and that today we have to be patriots, but there is a limit to everything. I repeat, there is a limit to everything: this Government takes the seriousness, collaboration and proposals of the opposition and, in the face of a formal courtesy to the private, does nothing but despise any contribution and forget any proposal. Worse still: I, for example, tabled only one amendment to increase the number of soldiers in Operation Roads safe and politely from the Ministry told me to modify it in a certain way; I modified it as they wanted but it is not there, it is gone. Then what are you asking me to make a change? [[Senator Santangelo's comments]] No, too convenient, I see you getting nervous - little, because on this occasion everything must be done in a limited way - but the reality is the following. And yet we didn't say anything and we didn't argue from the beginning, when our North Right Center Governors simply said that Italian or Chinese children from China would have to stay home for fourteen days. We are told: "You are racists." Someone went to toast in Milan (the mayor, who is also a respectable person), saying that it was necessary to socialize with the Chinese. But what did it have to do with whether they were Chinese or not? Yet we did not raise our tones when we asked you repeatedly to close (the lockdown): they asked you in the North, we asked you as a party, Giorgia Meloni asked you. It took you a long time, so much so that now there will even be proceedings to understand why there was this delay. [[Senator Santangelo's comments.]] Even lawyers have denounced, perhaps exaggerating, but they have done so, it is a judicial act to ask why you have been so late, how come you continue to make a mess, I don't mean so ignoble, but so terrible [[Comments of Senator Presutto]] Don't get nervous, let me talk, that at least this is still there, or you don't even want to be able to say things? [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u50	Please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u51	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Yet, when we proposed to you - Giorgia Meloni did - the establishment of an extraordinary commissioner you created a fake commissioner who is not well aware of what he is doing and you know why you did not accept the proposal of the Meloni and the Brothers of Italy to set up an extraordinary commissioner who would skip the bureaucracy and decide quickly, even with the control of Parliament? Why in that case how did Conte go every day to be the savior of the Homeland on television? [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] And how else did the government make it seem that its mistakes, in the silence responsible for the opposition, seemed good? [[Comments from the M5S Group]] It bothers you that I say these things. Mr Zaffini (FdI). Bravo Ignatius! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Just as it bothers you that I say that no lira has yet come to anyone. You fill your mouths with promises, but today people suffer, there are people who don't have a penny to eat, there are companies that are closing down and you know what the solution is? You're gonna owe it to me! Indemnify yourself, dear companies, dear families. [[Comments from M5S and PD Groups.]] But why do they get angry? You can't even talk anymore, ma'am? I want to make up for it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u52	You all have a way of expressing your opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u53	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). They're not used to it anymore, ma'am. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Let Senator La Russa speak, then everyone will say what they think. Please, Senator La Russa. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). President, I was going to say something that they understood in advance and I understand that it makes them nervous. Think of where the President-in-Office of the Council arrived: to announce that he would give 400 billion euros to businesses. So it seemed, because he didn't talk about rates, he didn't talk about mode, he didn't talk about the necessary guarantees, but he's nothing but a trust, like when a citizen buys a house and turns on a mortgage and then he knows that that money has to return them. The companies then imposed closure, then we told them, in the meantime they will still be in debt; that debt will repay him in six years, but, being already in bad shape, maybe in a month they will fail. Do you know what that debt we impose is for? To pay the taxes: on the one hand, we lend him the money and that money we present to him we force them to use them to pay the taxes. It's a round. We loan them to them because otherwise they can't pay taxes and how do we do it? What happened to the solution proposed by us to pay a thousand euros to all those who request it self-certification (and if it is self-evidently wrong to commit crime)? And the request made by us to bring down taxes without a ride where did it go? He's not here. There is now another proposal, despite everything, Mr President. Despite the deafness and grayness of this Government, we insist that we continue to be responsible and make proposals: we collect the hypothesis put forward by former minister Giulio Tremonti that - let's not forget - in 2008-2010 together with Juncker made the proposal of the Eurobonds, which was rejected by the left (which then led us to the famous triad that cost us, as well as Greece, pain and blood). It is a simple proposal (although, for goodness' sake, let us see what Europe will do, although the money that Europe will give us will still be a further debt for the nation): do we need large resources? We open up to a large national patriotic loan. Let's say it's not just the "Corriere della Sera"... [[Senator La Russa shows a page that prints the tricolor. Comments from the M5S Group.]] It is the "Corriere della Sera": are you afraid to see a tricolor? It is the tricolor of the "Corriere della Sera" not of Brothers of Italy.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u54	Senator Presutto, you can't film in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u55	[[Senator Santangelo's comments]] THE RUSSIAN (FdI). It's so nice you're wearing that mask. You know that mask doesn't protect? That mask "pour out" your possible illness! [[Comments of the Senators Presutto and Santangelo]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u56	Senator La Russa, speak to the presidency! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Put this mask on! That's not good. That's an anointing!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u57	[[Protests from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u58	Senator Airola, speak to me! Conclude, Senator La Russa! THE RUSSIAN (FdI). The colleague is nervous! She's in a nervous majority! This is how it is: it happens in life that even the majority can receive criticism.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u59	[[Senator Presutto's comments.]] As I said, Tremonti, as Einaudi did in 1948 (not a great novelty), asked for the possibility of issuing government bonds - in the long term of course - exempt from any tax or tax present and future, even in the event of succession.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u60	Senator La Russa, please conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u61	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). This instrument, together with a new way of issuing debt, could provide those resources that are needed today. President, I have little confidence, because in order to do what Italy needs, it would be necessary to listen, it would be necessary not between two parts, it would be necessary not to change the decrees at the last minute, it would be necessary that Conte did not announce, before promulgating the laws, what must happen, as happened when he made everyone escape towards the South. In a single word - and I conclude, Mr President - in order to be able to really do something for Italy, we would need a Government that unfortunately Italy does not have. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u62	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u63	Mr President, I was actually deluded that the serious situation that has affected our country would spare us instrumental words like those I have heard so far, but obviously Senator La Russa will never change: he remains undeterred even in the face of the serious situation that we have to face. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senator La Russa]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u64	Senator La Russa, you're a Vice President! DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). On the other hand, I would like to thank all the senators of majority and opposition who have worked in these days, even with difficulty, for coming today to issue this decree. I say this because we know perfectly well that there has been a long confrontation and, since there have been criticisms, not for everyone satisfactory, but nobody can say that the Government has not opened a dialogue, a confrontation, to the end with all the opposition forces. We were faced with a very serious crisis - the most serious since the Second World War - and unexpected, but not only because the Italian Government and this country were unprepared: as we have seen after the emergency and the virus hit us, other countries have also proved absolutely unprepared. That was the problem. We have tried in every way to react immediately - I repeat - and there may have been uncertainty or there may have been some problem, but no one can say that this Government and this majority have not tried to put in place reactions. Then we will see and discuss whether some measures were more effective, others less, and whether there were responsibilities, but today we must make it clear that we have tried to put everything that was possible into practice. This is the first emergency decree-law that addresses and puts in place tools regarding the health emergency, but at the same time - this is the other side of the health crisis that we live in, that is, the economic and social crisis - it puts in place tools and resources to intervene on the loss of work and the economic crisis. Is that enough? No, of course it is insufficient, but we all knew, when we voted here on the authorisation for budgetary deviation, that those were the resources. This decree - you know very well, because the confrontation was immediately there - practically exhausted all the resources that had been put in the field, but it did important things (and then I will get to talk about what is necessary instead, what is missing and for which we have committed ourselves). My colleague, Conzatti, mentioned the agendas, which contain commitments to the Government - I remember - not to evaluate the opportunity but to refer to the next decree-law of April. The decree before our examination has put in place measures that of course had never been seen to date in our country (think of the extended Cassa Integrazione in a very wide way and also by way of derogation, on which we probably have to go back). This is also the first time that we have taken action on the self-employed. Of course it is not enough, we know, but it was a first answer, for a very simple reason that I come back here to repeat and claim and as far as my political side is concerned we do not go back: no one must be left behind. No one must be left alone: this is the point and it is the element on which to base all the other interventions, at the same time knowing that we must create the basis to start again. Here it is not only the problem of restarting safely, but also with strategic elements, because we must begin to redesign the future well, but not going back and not putting old ideas and conceptions back in place. This dramatic crisis has in fact taught us - I hope we will not forget this - that today we pay the consequences of having done 37 billion cuts in health and public health service in so many years.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u65	[[Applause from the Mixed Group and Senator Nugnes]] We are also paying the consequences of having put in place an idea of health all focused on hospitals and neglecting in many situations and regions the territorial system of prevention and capillarity. When I say then that we must not forget this aspect, it means that in the future, as we had already begun to do, since at last there were no cuts but we were beginning to put resources back on health, we will have to think that health is a priority, as well as everything related to it: investment in the environment, quality of life and the environment. [[Welfare (Applause from Senator Nugnes)]] When I say that no one must be left alone, it means that in this decree-law there are areas discovered: we know perfectly well and we must intervene on that. Unfortunately, there are millions of people who are in great difficulty right now and are not covered. I am thinking of the issue of caregivers, domestic workers and other people who were doing their jobs and who are in difficulty today: this is an emergency. I ask the Government to do quickly, but on this all the majority is compact, in asking precisely in the decree-law of April, then after the other deviation, for action to be taken to give immediately what is needed. The other issue is business and liquidity: the liquidity decree was published in the Official Journal last night. It is clear that all simplification instruments must be put in place here, but this applies to businesses and those who have to take the EUR 600 bonus. This must be our commitment, on which in this decree-law we have also tried to work to simplify procedures, and the other issue that we must address to the full. I said a moment ago that we should intervene with an emergency income for those who do not have anything at the moment, who cannot wait until June to eat: we know perfectly well that we need to speed up and simplify. Mr Nugnes (Misto-Leu). Bravo! DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). This is what it means to assume the burden and responsibility of a ruling class and a Parliament: this is the work we have done, although we know that the decree-law under consideration - as has been said before - was somehow already closed, with all that has been produced, the amendments adopted and the agendas tabled. I am thinking of what has been done about health care, which has been redesigned and given lines: we are not only intervening to overcome the emergency now, but we are starting to shape our future intervention. We certainly have a problem of resources, but in these hours the debate in Europe, even dramatic, tells us that we are doing our battle to the end, because we do not want, neither memorandum, nor troike, nor loops around our necks, but we ask for solidarity - as a country that fully claims what it has done and given to Europe from the moment it was founded - and that Europe is not only the European institutions, on the one hand, who say one thing, and then the countries and states, who do something else, about sovereignism. Today we need a step forward: the hesitations of these days of Europe and of the European countries and the blockade of the North Front are causing damage. Those hesitations are causing damage, but on this we are compact as a majority, behind the Government, because we know that this is true for the future of Europe, but also and above all for the possibility of intervening in an emergency. I repeat that, as far as we are concerned, no one must be left alone, and that is the commitment of my political side and of everyone. Let us not forget, in conclusion, what has happened, which means that we must start again, but on different ideas and on the idea of a country that has first the question of the welfare of its citizens and certainly not profit. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU, M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u66	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u67	Mr President, I would like to try to make a political intervention, even knowing that the situation in our country is so serious that anything I can say will still be inadequate. My vote of confidence has two objectives: to approve an important measure and to appreciate the Government for crisis management. The work of the Government was not easy and it was seen in the uncertainties and difficulties of the first days, but Italy is the first Western country to have been hit by an unknown virus, at a very high rate of contagion and without reliable experiences to refer to. Other important countries affected by the virus after us have made serious mistakes and have fallen into blatant contradictions, showing how difficult it is in a complex society to govern misfortunes of this magnitude, demonstrating that it is not easy to take important and complex decisions when even science itself is not unanimous and the institutional framework feeds the differences between the State and the Regions. With the help of many doctors and extraordinary nurses, the Government has worked with responsibility, taking correct decisions and taking useful measures. The crisis, however, had to deal with old institutional problems, starting with the relationship between the State and the Regions and the need to modernise a public administration that is still in large parts of the twentieth century. These are gigantic problems, as well as absolute priorities: if not solved, they can prevent any rebirth of the country. But Europe is undoubtedly the most serious and hardest to undo. We have followed the tensions over Eurobonds and the difficulties of the Eurogroup. We are aware of the harsh debate on the use of the rescue fund. These are battles that Italy is fighting on the right side, but it would be a mistake not to appreciate the measures that Europe has decided to activate to support the countries most affected by the crisis. The rules on deficit, debt and state aid have been suspended. The obligation to co-finance the Structural Funds has been removed and it has been decided to waive the reimbursement of funds not yet spent; an appropriation was decided on by Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri in favour of workers and, without the resources put in place by the ECB, Italy's great financial effort would not be possible. Only a few weeks ago, if anyone had assumed that Europe would take these measures, we would have called it crazy. Yet, despite all this, mistrust about the very role of Europe does not diminish; a distrust that goes beyond the positive or negative judgment on the measures taken and almost a fear that Europe will not be able to overcome the crisis without serious irreversible damage. The discomfort and disenchantment are so strong that they are breaking even in the hearts of many convinced Europeans. Many years of faint spirit, the removal of the ideal of Europe, the emergence of many nationalisms have caused so much damage that they can be considered a cause of Brexit. Chancellor Schröder said that Europe is a community of destinies and is right. Which country can think of dealing alone with problems such as pandemics, climate change, energy, hunger, migration? It is precisely the enormity of the problems and hopes that make common - as Schröder says - the destiny of all the countries of Europe. Yet, never before has it become clear that the pandemic has confirmed that there is a double Europe; in one, together with other important countries, there are us, with our European position and with the heavy burden of our public debt; on the other hand, there are countries whose leaders, emblematically represented by Viktor Orbán, see European unity as a mere screen behind which we can maneuver very cynically for national objectives. The bitterness of so many European citizens stems from the evidence of this reality and therefore has a political nature; it stems from the observation that there is a piece of Europe, that of the hawks of the North and those nationalisms that so much like some countries and parties of our home, that continues to work for their own interests, careless to divide and wear down the Union, as if it wanted to lead to a collapse, not only political, but also economic and social. The political logic and the sense of these extreme positions must be sought in the global geopolitical context, because neither Putin's Russia nor Trump's America have so far shown that they like a strong and united Europe. The policy of duties, the easing of NATO's constraints, the transformation of the Mediterranean into a Russian-Turkish sea are just some of the clues to an inclined plan that, left to itself, is destined to change the world balance and move zones of influence. The European Union's generosity and solidarity with the countries most affected by the pandemic are not all at stake in the fight against the Covid-19. We are talking not about Europe's humanitarian feelings, but about its political intelligence, its foresight and its ability to understand what is happening in the world. The point is that Europe's destinies are at stake for the coming decades, whether it will have a weight in the international chessboard or whether all of us, including the strong Germany, are destined to be mere extras in the great game of continental superpowers. If we do not want the recovery to be ephemeral, Italy puts Europe on the issue of the urgency of concrete steps towards its political union. And it must do so with the strength of those who know that time has run out, aware that since 1954, when France rejected the programme of a European army, Europe is going down and in the illusion that a single economic union can give it prosperity and peace, without realizing that ours is a fictitious wealth and that our peace is in the hands of others. A few days ago here in the Senate Minister Hope recalled that in 1978 the National Health Service was established. Many have recognized the great social value of that reform and have argued that the Service should be enhanced even more. The reform of the Health Service, however, was not born by chance: it was the daughter of a time, from the sixties to the seventies of the last century when, despite a bloody terrorism, the political forces knew how to show a lucid vision of the future of Italy putting in place a reformist force of extraordinary foresight. In those years it was not only the birth of the National Health Service; there were also the nationalization of electricity, the framework law on urban planning, the laws of reform of the university, the compulsory middle school, the statute of workers, the birth of the Regions, the law of implementation of the referendum, the law for the start of the Constitutional Court, the law on conscientious objection, those on divorce and abortion. The National Health Service was born in a great season of reforms led by politicians who did not care about their image, but had a broad view of the things and great reformist ideas; they cultivated a long-term perspective and project; they knew how to choose and had a firm determination in the duty to do. Within that vision and that project reforms and great laws have been born that are still the cornerstones of Italian legislation. It is the memory of that season, together with the need for a clear horizon, which prompts me to ask the President-in-Office of the Council - I am sure the Undersecretary present in this Chamber will tell him - to find time to come to the Senate and open a debate on his project for Italy and on the vision to inspire the fundamental choices and daily decisions. In such a difficult passage in the history of Italy, Parliament has an absolute need for culture and political culture and it is the task of the President-in-Office of the Council to fill this gap. ( [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Bressa).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u68	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u69	Mr President, I have always thought that Europe would be built in crises and that it would be the sum of the solutions that would be found for these crises. This is what Jean Monnet wrote in his "Mémoires" published in 1976. This sentence of one of the founding fathers of the unionist project came back to my mind when President Pesco informed the 5th Commission of the underlying logic of its criteria of inproposability. We have been told - it has then been reiterated by Senator Misiani, and Misiani is a man of honor - that an emergency measure cannot be used for structural interventions and, therefore - for example - there will be no fiscal white year; a measure that would give breath to many VAT consignments and to many small and medium-sized enterprises, freeing them from the need to pay in June an exorbitant deposit of taxes on those incomes that are not perceiving. This government refused to consider it, arguing that the tax system should not be reformed under conditions of urgency. Right, wise, but how sudden and sudden wisdom in the heirs of that political season, which, in the excitement of a crisis, to the villainous and infamous cry of "Fate soon!" has reformed, in order, the pension system, the labour market, the system of local autonomy and the school system. It was the urgency of the spread that justified those structural reforms. We all remember the memorandum that the ECB sent to Italy in 2011, and that Monti, Letta, Renzi and Gentiloni Silveri followed. And why should the urgency of helping the citizens we represent now not justify equally structural interventions? Why these asymmetries? Are structural measures acceptable to you only if they penalise citizens and do not benefit them? Of course you're weird, you unionists. Europe will be in crisis - you say - but, when a crisis comes, Italy let us leave it as it is: with its vexatory tax, with its bureaucracy, with its code of procurement even more abstruse than what has been dictated to you by Brussels, the one to which we and the country begged you to return. But you: no, hard as iron, because you must be ever more realistic than the king, you unionists. When you cannot destroy it - the country you love - at least you strive not to rebuild it. Of course you're so weird. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] You are the ones who, first, with the Rordorf Commission set up in 2015, rewrite, obeying the European Union, the code of the business crisis, except then suspend it when an event arrives that puts companies in crisis. Well, luckily - I say - it's less bad: it's one of the few good things we find in the decree-law, but it's also a dystopic novel thing: war is peace, crisis is prosperity. Do you understand, then, that what you are told by Brussels does not work? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Why, then, not to suspend even the ISAs, based on a cornerstone of globalism - the function of neoclassical production - that is, on a fake world, on a dystopic world, on a world of machines, on the world of "Blade runner"? An entrepreneur, who once voted for you, told me yesterday disappointed that maybe PD are the initials of Philip Dick (absit iniuria verbis). Then, to see, the spread crisis and that of the virus are not comparable: one depends on a natural phenomenon (and it is not that of the spread) and the other depends on a human artifact (and it is not that of the virus). Maybe we should finally tell ourselves, since we saw it with our own eyes a few weeks ago: what you presented to us as an inevitable fact of nature to bow to, the spread, is nothing more than the result of a political decision: the decision to prevent governments from financing themselves with their Central Bank. This decision, taken in 1981 in Italy - as we know - with an exchange of letters between Andreatta and Ciampi and entered in 1992 in the European Treaties - as we know - in Article 123, first paragraph, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, had its own precise and stated logic: that of subjecting the choices of democratically elected governments to the scrutiny of the markets and - I quote - from that moment on the life of the Treasury Ministers had become more difficult and at each auction their work was subject to the judgment of the market, Andreatta dixit. Are we gonna talk about this? Do you want to? I don't come here to deny Andreatta, just to tell you what I know. I know that this argument would go away if it were worth two things: firstly, that the market was smarter and more legitimate than the citizens in judging the interests of the citizens themselves; secondly, that the market should accept for itself the discipline it claims to impose on others. And here we have - indeed, you have, dear unionists - a problem, or rather two, because, in the meantime, the smart market is not, so much so that often and willingly it does not even succeed in doing its interest: this is demonstrated here in Italy by the many episodes of bank failure that have occurred despite, or better thanks to the excellent national supervision; then, because the market does not accept for itself the discipline it wants to impose on others, so much so that when the crisis comes it goes whining at the gates of the State, as we well know here. I leave out the fact that the market is also that informal institution that decides to produce all the masks in China, because there they cost less, ignoring, in its infallible foreknowledge, which you have submitted to us - with Andreatta, Ciampi, Prodi - that this choice will have a cost of human lives. In the unionist project, however, there is more and there is worse. We are shocked by our proposal, the simplest and most obvious one: to finance the necessary measures with the issuance of money by the Central Bank, that is, to save the States by allowing them to exercise what is historically their prerogative, monetary sovereignty. But the discipline of the market; eh, but moral hazard; eh, but then corrupt rulers would spend public money on electoral purposes; perhaps neither you nor the citizens know that what is prevented from States in the unionist project, i.e. directly financed by the Central Bank, in this project is granted to companies. The ECB can buy private securities on the primary directly from companies, thus financing them and de facto doing industrial policy: it is called corporate sector purchase programme (CSPP) and Google will help those who need it. For the companies, those of the strong countries, the discipline of the market is therefore mitigated, but the ECB itself cannot buy public securities directly from the State monetizing the needs, it must go to the bank; it is called quantitative easing (QE), also Sprach Frankfurt. But another world is possible. From now on, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council, in the United Kingdom, it is again possible to do something which has been no longer possible in Italy since 1981. The government of its majesty has decided to finance itself with currency. Hoc erat in fatis, but we calm, immobile as a traffic light; we wait for others to increase the detachment from us, taking measures of pure common sense. We allow entrepreneurs to overpay taxes too, so in Brussels friends will welcome us with a smile. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups and Senator La Russa]] In Brussels, friends will welcome you with a smile because you have obeyed the temporary framework. I'm not saying Marx, but neither did Alberto Sordi teach you anything. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] All of you loved or said you loved Italy once: what does it forbid you to help her today? Obedience to a far-fetched paradigm that has already been swept away by the uncontrollable violence of the facts and that should not be in your cultural matrix. The idea that currency is a scarce commodity rather than an institution that can and must be administered in the interests of citizens: this is behind the dystopic response we have received at every request to help citizens. Increase the allowance for VAT consignments? Costa. Encouraging the production of masks? Costa. You know what's new? There is that this stuff also costs in the United States, the United Kingdom, Sweden and Japan and in fact there the Central Bank prints money to cover the costs. Italian citizens - I cannot say your voters because you know all too well that you no longer have an electoral base - have pockets full of this continuous strabism to their detriment. You know this and navigate on sight, denying them to express themselves by vow, denying them to look to the future with a minimum of perspective, that prospect that you cannot give him because you are first tragically deprived of it. In this debate on trust I want to tell you from your former elector that with tens of millions of voters I trust in you I do not have any, you do not deserve it for your cultural subalternity, but this is not an explanation of vote. What to vote for I will make it clear to my political leader because, together with tens of millions of Italian voters, I believe that he deserves confidence, you do not! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups and Senator La Russa]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u70	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u71	Mr President, gentlemen of the Government, among whom I do not see either the President of the Council or any Minister listening to such an important debate on a decree-law that is so important for the life of our country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Perhaps this is a sign of total disinterest in Parliament. This violent health emergency, the most serious economic crisis of the last eighty years, which has caused thousands of deaths among our fellow citizens, should have seen us all at the same table to work together in the interests of the citizens and in the interests of Italy. We put our ideas at the service of the country; we presented them to an Executive that, however, in addition to receiving a delegation of oppositions at Palazzo Chigi and at many hours of videoconference, showed no real will to cooperate. We didn't think about consent, but the best way to protect the health of Italians, without however that it meant to bring down the economy of our country, taking away any remaining possibility to recover. We have tabled and put forward proposals for common sense, but you have accepted them sufficiently and then rejected them. You have rejected the free distribution of masks and gloves. You have rejected the temporary re-introduction of vouchers for the agri-food sector and for personal services, which would have allowed thousands of people to work legally. You have rejected the economic support of 1,000 euros for the self-employed and self-employed, to whom you have promised 600 euros, not yet distributed, less - I remember - than the income of citizenship. You flunked the dry coupon for commercial rents. You have rejected the creation of a national fund for tourism and public establishments. You have rejected our zero bureaucracy plan, which would have allowed us to free ourselves, once and for all, of what is proving to be one of the most serious problems in the country. You have rejected the due recognition (double monthly, double salary) to those workers who today call heroes: doctors, nurses, social health workers, who fight on the ground against the coronavirus, risking their lives to save ours. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You have rejected the criminal shield for these health workers, postponing the decision to a later table. We've been unheard. Today is April 9th: exactly one month after the start of the lockdown, Italians still have nothing concrete: absolute zero. There are announcements, summits, Councils of Ministers; decrees, directives, circulars are being drawn up, but not a single euro has been given to families, workers and businesses, while we are here to debate in this House. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Funds, resources, bonuses and incentives have been created, but still no money has entered the pockets of the Italians. Everything is still and stranded, waiting for an infinite number of bureaucratic passages, between the lengths of the INPS and the masks fixed in customs to wait - who knows - what stamps. And just a few minutes ago a Minister of the Republic came to us to say that we are discussing unboiled decrees of the General Accounting of the State, that is, without cover. The government has announced a powerful intervention on live TV, announcing that it has put 750 billion guarantees on the table for companies. But let's tell the Italians the truth: guarantees are not liquid money. In essence, the State only provides bank guarantees, but the debt remains on the shoulders of the companies, up to the last cent. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] He guaranteed the debts, yes, but always the debts remain. The liquidity provided by the Italian State is therefore zero, while in France, Germany and the United States - as mentioned above - they have instead credited fresh non-refundable resources directly to the current account of those who needed it. Family interventions are even worse. People cannot wait for Bible times: they need immediate liquidity, they need real money; they all demand it. Someone from PD said last night you can't throw money out the window. Well, giving money to mothers and fathers who can't even shop at this time means not throwing money out the window, but guaranteeing survival. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The worst crisis that could be imagined is managed by an arithmetic majority, without a common policy and objectives; each party thinks for itself and not for the country, thinks about how to earn a few seconds of visibility. In this very chaotic context, instead of simplifying by indicating a unique and authoritative voice, you have allowed the Head of Civil Protection and the Special Commissioner for the Emergency not to speak the same language. The result is a succession of solos that confuse those who listen to them, getting no other result than chaos, impatience and fear in the citizens. I would have liked to give a suggestion to President Conte if he had been here in the Chamber: get out of the tunnel of the first time. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] If you want to talk to the citizens and can't do it using the traditional channels, do it in the morning so the Italians have a chance to inquire and go to bed serene. Your communication has generated fear, anxiety and uncertainty. You've destabilised the country. Who's right about the masks? Who decides the date of reopening? Let me guess: the much-declaimed scientific and technical committee. It is the philosophy of discharge, disengagement and irresponsibility. The citizens voted for us as parliamentarians and, through Parliament, an executive that governs. Governing means making decisions and not pressing the button "inoltra". It is you who must assume your responsibility to plan the times and the reopening and not the virologies. We are disappointed, but our disappointment can also be set aside. The truth is that the disappointment is of all Italian citizens and has turned into dismay, impotence and anger. We do not want to be an accomplice in missed choices and little courage. Therefore, if we do not want to be complicit in the lack of choice and courage, we will not vote for confidence. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u72	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u73	Mr President, representatives of the Government, 'Cura Italia': there could have been no more beautiful and meaningful word for this measure. If only you consult the vocabulary of Zanichelli we find, in fact, that the word has at least ten meanings. The word means a solicitous and constant concern for someone or something, but it also means an object of constant interest and also describes the commitment and zeal in doing something. The expression "Cura Italia" is also appropriate because it is a measure with an Italian title and is not titled in English. This reveals an Italian pride without any kind of anglicism. This global and epochal pandemic suddenly caught us and shocked us all, taking us vehemently from our everyday life and our normal routine. Nevertheless, while our country is in dismay and dismay, we legislators must maintain lucidity and a healthy optimism, keeping the solicitude of attention to the uncomfortable present, but also turn our attention to the medium term. The calamity with which we are dealing has exposed all the structural fragility of our country system in the field of both health and administrative and has brought to the attention of the public the extent of our public debt and the risks to which it can expose us on the financial markets. Yet, we have also seen the forces available to our country, which are moral and solidarity forces that we can consider an immaterial heritage of ours. I refer to the health workers, who have shown self-denial; to the Forces of Order and the Carabinieri who have also taken on the task of withdrawing drugs on behalf of those who cannot do so. I allude to the various voluntary associations so present in the territory, but I also refer to all those solidarity initiatives that have arisen spontaneously throughout the national territory and that have demonstrated to ourselves and to the world the quality that makes us a country appreciated and loved. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of inadequacy of the measure, nor certainly of courage, that is, the instrumental accusations that someone insists on moving. In fact, this Government does not lack courage and it is a courage that has had to face up to a financial necessity that we have been hard on and continue to provide with different types of support. This is a measure that does not want to discriminate against anyone because it is necessary to guarantee, or rather to put the health of citizens before the rest. And we are certainly not wasting any time either, because there are so many lost lives. We didn't stop at anything: we were present and used to go on with force, without interrupting a path undertaken, as someone did last summer. Well, the measures contained in this measure are aimed at addressing the needs of the different segments of the social structure, primarily by strengthening the National Health Service. Therefore, we have provided for the strengthening of the central guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises; the granting of the guarantee free of charge; the raising of the maximum guaranteed amount to EUR 5 million; eligibility for the guarantee of financing against debt renegotiation operations; the possibility of cumulation with other forms of guarantee, including mortgage. We have amended, facilitating it, the rules on the savings compensation fund, we have provided access to the Gasparrini fund also for self-employed workers and professionals who have self-certification of the decrease in their turnover of more than 33% in the last quarter of 2019. To this we add also the suspension of the terms of the tax and contributory obligations and payments that expire in the period between 8 March and 31 March, postponing the payment to the end of May. The suspension operates in favour of those subjects exhibiting activities of enterprise, art or profession with tax domicile, registered office or operational headquarters in the Italian territory. I am also proud that this Government has accepted, at the initiative of the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide, some indications, showing sensitivity and a sense of respect for the protection of women, all those women who are victims of violence which is a terrible social scourge of the contemporary era. Unfortunately, this situation puts women in close contact with their possible executioner and this has led to a fall in complaints, not because such violence has not occurred. To confirm this, there was another case of feminicide recorded a few days ago: Lorena Quaranta, 27 years old, student of the Faculty of Medicine in Messina, killed by her partner. Well, the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide, which gave rise to a dossier in which measures were included to address the problems of women victims of violence in the epidemiological emergency situation by Covid-19, proposed two important measures transposed into the decree: for 2020, the additional expenditure of three million euros in favour of public and private shelter homes existing throughout the country was authorised in order to support the emergence of domestic violence and to ensure adequate protection. It was our duty to suggest this measure, precisely because we have seen the work that anti-violence centers and shelter homes are constantly ensuring in these days so complicated for overcoming the difficulties and risks related to the contagion. In addition, a further intervention has been introduced to manage the meetings between children in foster care and their parents; meetings that can be held through remote connections in audio and video, in the presence of the specialized operator. I therefore conclude by hoping that this moment of epochal crisis may be an opportunity to start again with a change of rules in the wake of the reasonableness and national interest both present and future. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u74	The debate on the matter of trust is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u75	He asked the government representative to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u76	Mr President, I would like to ask for a further suspension until 12.30 a.m., so that the boiling process can be completed. I apologize for this delay, but we still need an hour.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u79	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I think that the minority has had all the attention and a facilitating attitude towards the measure both in the Commission and in this House. We really hope that at 12.30 p.m. the text will be ready, otherwise the inability of this Government would be absolutely in the eyes of everyone, [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We really hope that the time will be respected.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u82	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I too hope that this postponement will be the last. It is true that in the past we have seen much worse delays, days and even weeks, but we are in particular condition. There is someone in the debate who even spoke of opposition that delays work. Luckily those who have said such stupidity, a falsehood, are isolated cases. Now we really hope that work can be resumed with the only delay that has been announced now by the Minister, because we are really in special conditions - it is useless to repeat - but we ask that the Government also have special attention. I wouldn't want the problem to be covert and not just bureaucracy. However, the body that places the boiling still depends on the Government and, therefore, we hope that the latter's action will be effective.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u83	Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the delay with regard to the forecasts made, I would ask you now to send the Presidency the exchanges that should be carried out within the Groups, in order to facilitate those who have little means to return home. We try to be elastic in order to favor especially all those who come from outside Rome. We can collect requests through the quaestor senators so that we can quickly run the call. I shall suspend the sitting until 12.30 a.m. (The sitting was suspended at 11.41 a.m. and resumed at 12.31 a.m.) He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u84	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment transposing the amendments proposed by the Commission in the referee, entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u85	In the light of the Minister's statement, the Presidency shall assess the acceptable amendment, pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Rules of Procedure. He again asked to speak to the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment fully replacing the single article of draft law No 1766, of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u87	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the entirely replacement amendment tabled by the Government. In accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, it sends the text of the amendment to the 5th standing Commission, which may be convened immediately. Waiting for the live TV, I briefly suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.33 p.m. and resumed at 12.35 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u89	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u90	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the latest data released by Civil Protection tells us that the rules of social distancing are having the effects that we all hoped for. The contagion curve began its descent and, precisely for this reason, now comes the most difficult part, that of coexistence with the virus. The behaviour of individuals becomes even more important, because the more careful and prudent they are, the more the government can lighten the current rules. What I want to say is that there is a line beyond which politics cannot do anything, where the behaviour of individuals makes a difference and not just because it is a matter of complying with rules, but because there is a deep sense of responsibility. We need to gradually return to normality: for this reason it is now the time to hold responsible behavior on the part of every citizen of this country. We need to return to normal, first of all because this situation has consequences on the psychological condition of people, of those who struggle to work from home, of children torn from the possibility of playing outdoors, of the elderly closed, of children who do not go to school. There are also health consequences, and for this reason it would be appropriate to loosen the constraints on the possibility of walking, at least in places with low population density. Then, as the data Istat tell us, we approach a point of no return for many companies and for an economy that will find itself living the most difficult season since the end of the Second World War. A new reconstruction awaits us, in the hope that the rubble will not be too much and that companies, with the support of the Government and local institutions, will find the right way to restart, without being crushed by bureaucracy, debt and lack of liquidity. Italy is the second largest industrial system in Europe, one of the largest exporters in the world, a country that cannot remain at the window, that needs to act in order not to be cut off from the commercial and economic flows, so as not to see its role as economic power of the Continent reduced. We must then allow the reopening of those activities that do not constitute a problem in terms of social distance: I am thinking of the industries that can operate safely, the yards that, as we saw again yesterday with the collapse of the bridge over the river Magra, cannot remain closed for long. Of course, it is also necessary to reopen the shops that until now have not been included among those selling primary goods, such as workshops and craftsmen, provided that there are no situations of direct contact. We must then do everything necessary for those sectors where the virus did not represent a contraction in the path, but a dizzying collapse, from one hundred to zero overnight: the world of culture, initiatives and public events, the world of tourism, which today is on its knees and will need time to get back on its feet. So, as on the agenda I proposed, in agreement with all the majority groups, and which was accepted in the Commission: immediately suspension of payments and aid for those companies operating under the real estate lease scheme, support for the seasonal unemployed who have exhausted the duration of the New Social Employment Insurance (Naspi) and immediate liquidity. The crisis that goes through this sector is an example of the work that needs to be done: do not be content to allocate the resources, but get them to the pockets of businesses and families in difficulty as soon as possible. The real point is that today we have a bureaucratic system full of obligations, which can make sense in the full phase, but which is now becoming a threat to the very existence of many companies. A design that points to the most radical work of bureaucratic simplification that the country has ever known and must strengthen its commitment to a radical simplification of procedures in order to ensure that the banks and all those involved, from the INPS to the Revenue Agency, become accelerators and not slow down a process. A number of agreements with the ABI have been positive in this respect for the Integration Fund and for other interventions, but the question of access to liquidity remains, which is the real issue to be resolved. The institutions must be 100% guaranteed even beyond the threshold of 25,000 euros, just as it is happening in other European countries and, when I say the institutions, I mean all, the central state, the Regions, the Autonomous Provinces and the Municipalities, because the local authorities have tools and resources, but, above all, they have the proximity with the citizens, which favors the quality and effectiveness of the interventions. Then there is Europe and it would be unfair to say that it does not see the instruments it has put in place these days: the European Integration Fund; the powerful purchase of government bonds by the ECB; the re-use of the structural funds that Italy has not yet spent; the measures to support agriculture, the liquidity of businesses; the suspension of the Stability Pact; the increased flexibility on state aid. However, it is clear that these resources help in the emergency, but do not give guarantees about the future, about the resources that will be needed to restart the economy. Some European countries must understand that this is not about socialising debts, but about putting in place a policy that allows the economy to rise. It takes, therefore, long-term instruments; they call themselves coronabond or otherwise I don't care, this doesn't matter; it matters that all stakeholders understand that we are saved together or no one will be saved. I want to say that Europe will simply no longer exist as we have known it and how my generation has known it if it does not do everything in its power and that it is illusory to think that some State or Italy can do it alone without Europe's broad shoulders. This is not, therefore, the moment of controversy or accusations; this is the time to work belly on the ground because today we all have the hardest proof that our institutions have ever faced. The sums will come to an end and the first to do so will be the same citizens. President. - As the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, we naturally appreciate the measures contained in the measure. They are born in the context of the beginning of the crisis and, therefore, as we all know, they are the starting point of a path that will have to continue with the next measures, from the liquidity decree to the others that will accompany us in the next weeks, especially the growth decree. These measures will have to express a much greater force of fire and other economic amounts. In what we approve today we knew that there was no chance of onerous amendments being adopted and, therefore, in response to the Government's request, we agreed binding agendas for the next measures. These commitments will have to be maintained, starting with those that promote the entry of liquidity into the system because this will continue to be the main problem in the coming months. In this sense it is necessary to free up the possibility of spending by local authorities, the possibility of contracting extraordinary debt at least for those realities which have the accounts in order. I also hope that some of the amendments that the Government did not want to accept at this stage may be rethinking. I am thinking, for example, of the possibility for the employer to anticipate the supplement fund by way of derogation in order to lighten the load of the INPS and to allow the worker to obtain the resources immediately, just as is the case with the ordinary earnings supplement fund (CIGO) and the extraordinary earnings supplement fund (CIGS). Companies are families and families help each other and employers want to help their workers. Mr President, I believe that the big issue today is to imagine the new phase. The government also compares with local authorities and evaluates the possibility of a leopard-spotted reopening based on the situation of the epidemic in every single territory, of course always respecting the criterion of health security, but not forgetting that every closed screen is today a workplace at risk for tomorrow. Let us not forget this and let us really make sure that the economic crisis that follows the pandemic is not even worse. For all these reasons, I announce the Group's vote in favour of the measure. [[Applause from the groups Aut(SVP-PATT,UV), IV-PSI and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u91	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u92	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u93	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, when you close everything - in Europe, someone, particularly in Hungary, has gone too far by closing even democracy and bordering Parliament at home - there is nothing left but the state. John Fitzgerald Kennedy said that the word crisis, written in Chinese, consists of two characters, one represents danger and the other the opportunity. The same applies to the word "State." The State can manage emergencies and plan the restart uncomfortably sitting in a transitional situation or can sit in the armchair finding comfort and getting pleasantly used to the novelties resulting from the emergency health. They're two different paths. The State can replace businesses and imagine a new IRI or state airlines; the State can - if it wants - even replace workers by putting them in permanent lockdowns and paying them all to stay at home with an income guaranteed universally for the simple fact of being born. The state can do so if it wants to, but the momentary and just deprivation of freedom due to the emergency health risks returning us a country without work for companies and workers. At that point, there's gonna be no freedom forever. I believe, however, that we will have to get out of this crisis as it happens after an earthquake or war, and without needing mass welfare, but work and social security through work. We will stay at home as long as it takes to limit the contagion, not for what limits the space of our ambitions, our legitimate desires and projects. The State must move wealth, even in debt to businesses, even very small ones, that aim to keep the work and the workers so that the link between today's expenditure and future production is not lost; and then it must return to its place, otherwise it will reopen only one factory: that of misery. I expect from the state - as happened with the liquidity decree-law - that it will be guaranteed with the banks of loans to enterprises, even if we would have wanted 100% guaranteed for all amounts, because we are terrified of bureaucracy. The State, then, pays immediately 50 billion euros - even with the help of the banks - that owes to the entrepreneurs for works already carried out, goods already delivered, invoices already issued. In this case there would be neither loans nor aid, but regular payment so far delayed, up to 600 days in some cases. A serious state, then, prepares Italy for restart, does not get caught unprepared. The schools are closed: they become yards to make them safer and more beautiful; the roads are deserted: construction sites and works to pave and redo the pavements; our artistic and monumental heritage, our churches sadly closed also for Easter: let's think of a great plan of restorations. We are talking about 120 billion fixed works: what are we waiting for to start construction sites? Did you see what happened yesterday in Massa: how many bridges still have to collapse to become a priority? To intervene in this phase of crisis becomes even more urgent; to leave immediately without bureaucracy, of course guaranteeing distances and protection for all workers. It is not dignified that the general strike should be threatened by respect for workers' rights to safety. Already today there are those who are working and have never stopped: the construction site for the bridge of Genoa, for example. Now take the behavior of those who have not stopped and with that all return to work immediately. They are not insane and unconscious, they have simply adopted security measures and this will apply to all economic sectors, from trade to tourism to agriculture. The problem of masks is not to force or not, with somewhat irresponsible scenes, Borrelli-Fontana - of which we would gladly do without - but to provide them: they are not there. There are companies waiting for a week to start production; as well as swabs, serological tests. I saw doctors and nurses wrapped in garbage bags and scotch in the lane for lack of protection. 100 doctors died, as was mentioned earlier, 26 nurses, nine pharmacists, five 118 relief workers. To these heroes we must pay homage, but there have been mistakes and we must find those responsible, without any impunity. Above all, we will not have to repeat certain mistakes. With the fund for the victims of duty, which we will approve with this provision, we will not wipe out the pain for those who died in the lane but we will honor them and their loved ones. Mr President, among the very few positive things that this sad emergency gives us, there is that of having made the No vax No vox, of having restored credibility to scientists, doctors, and it is they who tell us to start thinking about the future. Organising recovery is up to politics and not science. It is not precisely a task for the experts on duty: yesterday the magistrates, today the doctors. Nor do they any favour if they are charged with the decision-making responsibility that lies with us. Finally, Italy does not exist without opening up to international markets; it does not exist since the Renaissance, it does not even exist from the Roman Empire, and the Government Conte 2 was born with an idea of total discontinuity with the approach of the previous Government: that of closed ports, borders, walls. As I would remind the President-in-Office of the Council that we have opposed the government that wanted to leave Europe. We don't need another time the storytelling of stepmother Europe that wants Italy badly. There is no confrontation between countries in Europe, as some sovereigns would like us to understand, this is demonstrated by these words: I am convinced that we also need a common European debt instrument as a next step. And again: If there is a country that must understand that after an existential crisis it is essential to have pan-European support for reconstruction, this is Germany, since it was helped long after the Second World War even though it had caused it. These words, Mr President, are neither of Senator Salvini, nor of Congresswoman Meloni or of sovereignists of the Oltralp; they are the words of a German, a former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, Gerhard Schröder. We magically exit from the misleading narration set in recent weeks that reduces the current tension in Europe to a re-edition of the semi-final of the World Cup of Mexico 1970, to bring it back to a more rational and above all less hysterical ground, that is that it should be the space of political vision. Europe has done so much, has made available so many instruments, now it must do more. At the point where we are the phrase "nobody saves himself" is not a good slogan to make us a hashtag on Twitter or a banner to hang on the balcony, but the most inescapable and obstinate of truths; many have understood it regardless of the passport they can show. It is not intellectually honest today to speak of Germans against Italians, Italians against Dutch, Dutch against Spanish, for a very simple reason: simul stabunt simul cadent, together they will either be or together will fall. The heart of the challenge lies therefore in the political reading of this immense tragedy, in the need for a united political response that re-launches the only institution that has so far proved capable of ensuring peace and prosperity for Europe and an unprecedented economic response that removes the anti-historical encrustations of selfishness and protects every single European citizen from the consequences of the crisis. The great pandemic of 2020 will be the title of a chapter of history that future generations will find themselves necessarily having to study, what will be written on that chapter will depend on the actions that we will be able to put on the field. In conclusion, if egoism prevails today, tomorrow that chapter will talk about the days when European utopia has died; but if we now demonstrate vision, vision and unity, the title of the next chapter will be the new European Renaissance. It's our choice. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u94	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u95	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u96	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, before any political consideration, allow me to thank the silent people of doctors, nurses and parasanitary staff, who are the symbol of the many who are at the forefront today, along with so many other workers who have never stopped in this emergency phase, to continue to do their work and to serve their own nation. Without them, this goddamn virus we're fighting would probably have killed a lot more people, and so all of them get our thanks. We are in Holy Week and we must believe in Easter, in the resurrection. Italy has shown, President, that it is a great nation. For a month, most of 60 million Italians have been housed for the sake of life, without army on the street, in freedom. They deserve to be able to return to their relationships as soon as possible. But, to do all this, we need a government that avoids mistakes, like the many mistakes that have been made in the decrees that have happened in these weeks of emergency; very serious errors, communication errors that have completely disoriented the Italian people. I am referring in particular - I am sorry that there is no government - to President Conte's statements, which said that we would be ready for emergency, and then find ourselves out of the blue without doctors, without intensive care posts in hospitals and without even masks of protection. I think of the press conferences via Facebook, to announce decrees that have not been there, to say that it closed everything so as not to close anything, that have generated panic at all levels. And I also want to remember, last of all, the assaults on supermarkets and railway stations. I could say a lot more, but I'm staying here for obvious reasons. Even this decree-law, which is called, as a colleague said before in Italian care Italy, does not convince us absolutely, because it does not cure anything at all. Here you need answers; you with this decree-law continue to ask questions and requests for forms to be filled out. Italy needs shock therapy, it needs a strong shock. But the message contained in this decree-law is that typical of the welfare governments: yes to the integration fund (and there would be no more), but no support for all those companies that have the courage, still today, not to fire and the strength not to close definitively, even when the emergency health will be behind us. And what about the 8,000 Italian municipalities, which are the backbone of the economic and social system of the entire country, that have been left alone, without any resource, and that will somehow continue to provide the services of primary necessity to their communities? Then there is this cancer of bureaucracy: it is time to simplify everything, as I have always heard it in this House. We need to make every practice within clicks, for the private and for the business. But what is happening with this decree? I quote two cases for everyone, which are perhaps the most emblematic: the INPS website, which collapses under the request of hundreds of thousands of users who submit questions for the 600 euro bonus, and the words of Minister Azzolina, who says that we are Italy of online teaching and then communicates to their teachers, apologizing, that the rankings will not be updated, because there are too many paper questions. But how do we think we can be credible by acting like this? Today the economic and productive system of the country asks us liquidity and the citizens ask us for work, but you answer with the bureaucracy. I am thinking of the many companies that should have the maximum support and simplification at the moment, to open up or to try to stay open. Instead, you reject the amendments on the ISA, which are a devilish evolution of the sector studies; you reject the amendments on the roof to the use of cash, you reject the amendments that avoid giving the Revenue Agency two more years to do the tax checks, only four more days in March for the payment of the F24. Here, a few days to pay, compared to two more years to be persecuted by the tax authorities. Let us say this: this is a shameful way of doing things. What we are telling you here now were all proposals of common sense that Brothers of Italy had put to the attention of the Government: we had presented important proposals to amend this decree-law, but you said no, you were blinded by your ideological fury. We believe that this is not how we can cure Italy. This decree-law is the photograph of a country that raises its arms to the sky and shakes its shoulders, which admits its defeat and impotence. You are giving a cure to a guinea pig; here you have to save Italy, you have to have the courage of the young Italian doctors who have taken the field, like the boys of '99, for Italy and for our nation. Well, being worthy of this country is our duty. We are Italy and we are a great nation; we are the cradle of Roman civilization. We won't give up because surrender isn't in our DNA. Of course, we would have expected help from Europe, understanding and solidarity. We in Europe have believed in it from the start; we in Europe have founded it; we are Europe, but of course Europe is not Italy. And it was clear that in these days there has not been a single hand stretched towards our country. The Europe of numbers does not interest us, we want the Europe of peoples and civilizations. Italy does not ask for charity; it demands justice and demands respect. Mr President, today Europe must be worthy of the Italian people and when it ends - hopefully soon - this health emergency and will be behind us, surely the time will come for us to ask questions and seek answers, but this is not the time. This is the moment of emergency and national unity. It is with this spirit that Brothers of Italy and Giorgia Meloni immediately showed the will for dialogue with the Government. Yet - let us say this - we were completely disappointed. We were hoping to write this provision together, but on your side we only received nos regardless. We had been very clear from the outset; we would not have accepted and voted for anything in a closed box. Unfortunately, we have seen a growing attitude on the part of the Government towards the amendments tabled by our Group. Allow me to say that this fantastic directing booth was useless, it was a farce. We could have said: "Do you" and start doing obstructionism, but we didn't want to do it. Rather, we have continued to show a spirit of cooperation by leaving only 20 amendments and six agendas in place, but you have also rejected those, including proposals of common sense at zero cost for the state's coffers. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to confirm that we have shown all our spirit of cooperation in order to improve a decree-law that remains insufficient. We have done this for the Italian people, who are closed in their homes today, who have lost their jobs and do not know whether they will be able to reopen their activities tomorrow. It is for Italian citizens that we want and must save our country. We vote for Italy, not for you; we vote for our people, despite you. When the Homeland calls, we answer yes and we do not ask anything else, but we remain consistent with our history. You will have, if you wish, our support in this critical emerging phase, but you will never have our vote in favour. For these reasons, Brothers of Italy will vote against this measure. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u97	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u99	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of this measure. I have heard even strong controversy in this debate. I must say that in one verse I am not surprised (it is part of the political dialectic), for the other a little 'yes. We - and first the government - have done a job in the Commission, involving minorities. There were two fairly clear and recognized data: the Government used in the decree-law the entire breakout on which it was authorized, equal to 25 billion euros and there was (and there is) the commitment of the Government to build a solution that with the new decree, that of April, was able to respond to the set of problems, some of which - we are fully aware of - remained open with the measure under consideration. All this was clear, so much so that I thank the opposition for the attitude it had in the Commission, a serious attitude that allowed us, at a difficult time, to conclude the work and in that debate - colleagues from the opposition of the Budget Commission can certainly confirm this - we also found important convergences. To give some examples, we have approved agendas proposed by the majority, demonstrating that this trust has not been placed because there are problems in the majority, that indeed convincedly presented agendas on professionals, VAT matches, tourism, issues on which majority and opposition have jointly expressed addresses and asked for commitments to the government also for the next decree-law. After that, it is fully legitimate to ask for dialectic and freedom of criticism, you can criticize everything but allow me to say - since even in the statement on the trust of our Parent Company the points of the decree-law have already been clarified - a different thing, to make a reflection together with you. We're dealing with an unprecedented emergency. We have already said that intellectual honesty will allow us to avoid throwing the first stone, because no one among us can do it. We must avoid what we are already in: a dramatic economic and social crisis, we must live with the virus and build a path of reopening this country, knowing that we are all called to a challenge, that is not simply to wait for the virus to be defeated: what is needed is a vision, a perspective for this country. I know, there is bureaucracy, we do everything we can, we have to change the mood, but we need a vision, because it cannot be said that after the Second World War there was no political, or rather ideological, confrontation. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] However, in the post-war period there was a vision that produced the greatest reconstruction of this country, an example - yes, indeed - all over the world. We lack a vision and on this I would ask everyone to reflect, because we are not only faced with the virus, before the virus we were faced with environmental breakup, technological breakup, breaking up on inequalities. Are we facing a historic and epochal turning point in the world, do we want to live up to this or do we chase ourselves into demagogy? That's our problem. I place four points of work. The President-in-Office of the Council has rightly said that he should make a directing booth, involving the different institutional levels, without institutional wars. We build the route, we call the best minds of this country, I don't care which racing team they belong to, I'm interested in developing a project for Italy today, not in a year. The first point is Europe. Let us agree: if today the spread is what it is, because things have to be said, it depends on the decision of the ECB, fortunately, to buy on the secondary market but - be careful - without more percentages on the countries, and as long as it is necessary. That's good news. The suspension of the Maastricht Treaty is good news, but we need to know how long it will be suspended. Having said that, the real problem (it is the discussion of these hours) is whether Europe is able to realise that everything has changed and that all its instruments, which had failed before the coronavirus, are in no way adequate today. We do not need the solidarity of the debt, we do not ask the Germans to pay us the debt but we ask that there be a new facility. For example, beyond the coronavirus, how far will Europe go without a platform? How long will Europe go if the Chinese and the Americans manage not only oil but the data, the big data, and Europe will remain watching? Isn't there a strategic renegade on this? How long will Europe go if it is unable to make ecological transformation? The Germans to whom and how will they sell Mercedes or BMWs? That's the level of the challenge. At this moment the sovereignists can rest, they can sit down because the hypothesis that the real sovereigns are proposing is that of Hungary, that is, the total defeat for us first of all. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU and PD Groups]] The second working point concerns the masks. As I said in the previous debate, there is a problem: what is the function of the State? If we discover that not only Italy but the whole world is in difficulty because the masks, which are part of a production chain with low added value, no one produces them anymore, do you think that there is a need to build a new relationship between the State and the market? New not with respect to the theological places of the twentieth century but new in the sense that it is able to respond to the needs of people. I have already talked about health care: everything has to be changed. The only thing that must not be changed is the universality of the system, we must not abandon the universalist system. We will see it when there is the vaccine, because there will be countries that will give the vaccine and countries that will not finance it and only those who have the money will be able to access it. Is that clear? We have finally closed the debate on health: the wrong cultural vision is over, according to which the only prospect for health is to cut. No! Health, on the basis of its tax contribution, must be guaranteed to all. Finally, with regard to recovery and reconstruction, an industrial policy project is needed. It's okay not to kill business, of course. We also know what companies are. I come from a region where there is one enterprise for every eight inhabitants, is that clear? We don't take lessons from anyone! Do we want to make an industrial policy? Where is future development: life sciences, biotechnology, technological innovation? We need to build a project, a new social pact between work, enterprise and state, which is able to make us jump even from the point of view of bureaucracy. If we want to win the battle of bureaucracy we cannot commute from imposing constraints, because we find that someone steals, from no constraint, and then returns to this problem. It's an implant problem. Finally, last point: a new welfare is needed. Today we see the elderly die dramatically for this emergency, but we are a country that needs a new welfare population and to build a new leg of the economy, what for me is the social economy: third sector, ability to build personalized answers. We are facing a great transformation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Errani, please finish. He has gone through the times at his disposal abundantly. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). We will be judged not for the last survey, nor for how many like we get on the things we say. We will all be judged on the basis of our ability to give the future to this country. [[Applause from the Mixed Group, M5S, PD and IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u100	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u101	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u102	MANCA (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, Vice-Minister Misiani, ladies and gentlemen, never since the post-war period have the institutions, and among them the Senate of the Republic, have been faced with such serious scenarios, without certainties, without antibodies and with the scientific community still looking for structural solutions for treatment and prevention. An unprecedented emergency that could overwhelm humanity, starting from the most important pillar for the right to health: our hospitals and our intensive therapies. We are fighting a new war together, but enemies and opponents are not armies. Our children are certainly not frightened by the whistle of a bomb, but the enemy is unfortunately invisible, is among us and killed 17,000 people in Italy and another 84,000 in the world. They are not numbers, they are unfortunately men and women, mainly elderly, but also many young people, each of whom has a face, a name, a history and an identity. That is why I want to express here, on behalf of the Democratic Party, my condolences to the families of the victims, first of all that their sacrifice should not be paid off. For them we must assume a new responsibility: to leave safely, so that the images that have appeared to our eyes, the lonely tears of their family members, from Bergamo to Brescia, from Lodi to Piacenza, never again appear among us in our country. Our grandparents and parents have freed us from dictatorships, authoritarian regimes. Europe has guaranteed seventy years of peace and managed to eradicate the virus of Nazi-Fascism. It is up to us to build a new Europe, in which, instead of constraints, obstacles and stability pacts, the project and the investments needed to ensure new economic development take over. This is the work we have to do and from this work we guarantee support for the Conte government, which is negotiating with Europe at this time a new idea of Europe, to relaunch growth, development and cohesion and not to leave the States alone. That is why - I say it with great tranquility - our task is to defeat the virus and regain new freedom and new well-being. That is why investment in research must increase. That is why the knowledge economy can be a fundamental starting point for generating new economic development and that is why - I say this to the Government - the best skills must be involved. It takes a close direction to build a new pact between work and enterprise, which can direct and guide a horizon and a vision, to build a project for the future of our country. Today the Italians ask us not only to be cured, but also to have a vision, to guarantee them a future of certainties. That must be our goal, our ambition. I believe that we must have this ambition, in order to immediately bring the death rate back to the standards that make Italy one of the countries with the longest life expectancy - and there will be a reason -, an indicator of well-being, social cohesion and quality of life and the environment. Therefore this decree-law, the care Italy, was born to leave no one in solitude. The virus compels us to give up, as much as decisive, in order to defeat it, which unfortunately limits our individual freedoms and breaks down some fundamental pillars, from the right to education to the right to work. However, we must look up: if we can design a job in safety and define distance study as a universal right for everyone, without leaving anyone in solitude, we will realize that the quality of life and social relations can even increase and be the pillar to build new development. In short, we have turned off our everyday life and we have a duty to find a safe solution to restart. We must gather the basic levers and have the ambition to design and co-design a different world. A restart is not compatible with conflicts. The pandemic does not have a national dimension: the propaganda that is consumed in attacks on the government and in criticism regardless, in a chase to those who shoot the highest, not only has tones not compatible with the emergency, but in times of war has no outlet, even in relations with the citizens, who ask us seriously, facts, actions and humility. For this reason the conflicts between regions and government are incompatible to deal with the emergency. Certainly we will have time and opportunity to discuss how to reduce the time and ways to redesign the functions of the State and the Regions: we will obviously be able to overcome what competing subjects represent and re-introduce the concept of institutional sharing and cooperation. Today is the time of responsibility and unity and it also serves humility in the place of such arrogance. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] We have chosen to facilitate the unblocking of the burdens and surpluses of the Regions, precisely because of the need for strong institutional cooperation between regions and local authorities: that liquidity that, thanks to our amendments, we have freed for the Regions, will actually help the municipalities to strengthen the resources for welfare and social maintenance, for the fundamental need of a community that is to guarantee security in services to citizens. That is why we are calling for a commitment from the Government - and we have done so through a majority-approved agenda - to provide local authorities with the necessary and fundamental liquidity to safeguard services to people. The mayors are other heroes of this situation and of this war that we face. The communities they represent have the crucial role around the mayor's figure to safeguard the sense of belonging, trust and quality of life. They will be able to do useful actions, if the Government guarantees them, in order to go through this phase, decisive and decisive resources, which are the result of lack of revenue, throwing and local assets, which must be replaced by a state intervention. This serves, because it will safeguard and will be a fundamental part of the pillar for restarting. We need municipalities to share and ensure social cohesion and quality of life and development. Within this crisis, we have been exposed to our certainties. The importance of the public health system has emerged even more strongly. We have earmarked in this decree-law 3.5 billion between health and civil protection. Here, too, I would like to remind the doctors, nurses, social workers, civil protection, law enforcement, armed forces and firemen, to whom we have also paid particular attention in the process of conversion to unchanged balances to ensure greater resources. We say this with great force: together with this pillar, associationism and volunteering are the best face of Italy, which must bring us trust and strength to react and overcome this crisis. President Marcucci has tabled an important amendment on the responsibilities of doctors, then turned into an agenda and accepted in the Budget Committee with the contribution of all the Leaders. I want to thank him, because we have introduced a crucial issue at this crucial moment. It is not a tombal condon that is proposed to secure doctors: we have simply suggested a reflection, which we now ask the government to close quickly. The reflection is very simple: we are not talking about condons, we are talking about giving up responsibility when we are faced with malice or gross negligence. We are talking about the need to secure the most important pillar and we cannot lock doctors in the courts: they must stay in hospitals to guarantee the right to health of our citizens. [[Applause from the PD Group]] This intervention is indispensable for the country, I say it with great force, we cannot help it: we cannot do it, neither economically, because the State cannot afford to bear the burdens of this conflict, nor culturally, because doctors and health personnel are fundamental for a restart, to reprogram surgical activities now suspended, as well as to rethink a health system that has precisely in territorial medicine the greatest challenge before it. To do prevention and cure you cannot abandon the territory and you need to rethink it in full. This is the reason why the decree cures Italy has within it important actions for economic development and to give a hand and social protection: 10 billion to cover the universality of social shock absorbers. They are important facts and I do not understand how we can vote against an action that guarantees for the first time all, even the self-employed, who to date had never been in the history of the Republic in the condition of having a pillar of assistance and social cohesion available to overcome emergencies. Together with all this we also wanted to ensure - and this is a fundamental point from which we started - speed to general liquidity for workers and businesses. I want to stress positively the government's agreements with the ABI for the shock absorber advance. We must be very careful: the banks, which in many cases have been used instrumentally against a party and against politics, must be our main allies to give speed, wheel and motor to the measures, so that the resources arrive in the pockets of the Italian workers. Precisely to ensure that the resources are such as to guarantee companies the liquidity needed to go through this crisis, we need an agreement without burden and without bureaucracy precisely with the credit system, which is our main ally to ensure speed to the measures that the Government has set and that Parliament is preparing to convert. These are the reasons, Mr President, and I shall conclude. We have put at the center some proposals and some themes for the decree-law of April. The Democratic Party has assumed responsibility for converting this decree-law to safeguard the speed of processes, measures and liquidity for people, families and businesses. Tourism is one of the priorities to be addressed, because it is the sector most upset and most involved in this transformation and crisis. That is why the commitments will concern the Government and for this reason we ask the Government to commit itself to ensuring that the issue is finally addressed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u103	Conclude, please, Senator Misses.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u104	MANCA (PD). Ours is a firm yes, and not only to reaffirm our trust in the Government; it is a strong yes to guarantee workers and businesses the resources they need to go through the crisis. There are many resources that need, through less bureaucracy and more simplicity, to reach Italian families and businesses to ensure a new economic development. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u105	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u106	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u107	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I speak to you, I speak to colleagues, I speak to those who have the patience to follow us from home. I listened to everything and we all listened. These days we have worked in the Commission, proposing so many measures, with the regret that we have not received one. They tell us: "Maybe later," but perhaps not everyone has the confidence that we have to do it quickly. Today the 19th century speaks of a suicidal grandfather in Savona, thrown out of the window for the despair of not being able to see his grandchildren and relatives. A month of kidnapping begins to be long; it is right and the Italians are facing it responsibly, but we are talking about economic measures and we must be serious. If the Government does something good, it is our duty to stress it and if the Government, in our opinion, makes mistakes, it is our duty to highlight it. In the speech of my colleague from the Democratic Party I heard of mayors and heroes doctors. There's no lira for mayors and doctors. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FI-BP-UDC Groups]] It's not enough to say they're heroes. We have proposed an amendment as a League and centre-right which did not involve hundreds of millions of euros of expenditure: we proposed to detax part of the salary of doctors, nurses and health workers. We have been told no. We have proposed another amendment which cost the State nothing to unblock the funds for doubtful debts owed by the municipalities. If they're watching us, the mayors know what we're talking about. That's billions of euros. The state cost zero, but we were told no. I tell my friends, at least don't call them heroes. Those who are risking their lives in the front line as mayor, doctor or nurse hear the hero's live television, but, in the face of amendments by the League and the center-right that helped him concretely, they hear the majority say no. I ask you, then, not to call them heroes, please. ( [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ). Explain to them why we don't help them on their salary and then we'll talk about it. As far as bureaucracy is concerned, someone didn't realize we're in wartime. We're still hostage to the union nos. We are extending the time frame for the integration fund and I am saying this today in this House, hoping that we will not be accused of defeatism. The integration fund for millions of Italians does not arrive on 15 April, as promised by the President of the Council. I give a suggestion to President Conte: before promising on television and deceiving millions of workers and entrepreneurs, things are done; first they are done and then they are announced on live television. ( [[Applause from the League and FIBP-UDC Groups]] ). Otherwise, entrepreneurs and workers go to the bank and they hear that there is nothing. That's a suggestion. Always with regard to bureaucracy, there are some enlightened entrepreneurs who are paying wages to the workers even though they are at home. Among the many companies, the Lube, in the Marche, will integrate by choice of employers to its collaborators the difference between fund integration and full salary. Well, the state will demand taxes on the difference between the fund and the full salary. Tax at least what entrepreneurs pay to their workers in times of emergency. ( [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] ). Let's at least ask for that. However, we are waiting for the okay of Europe, because to do anything it takes its assent. With bad taste the German newspaper "Die Welt" today writes that Italians must be controlled by the European Commission and adds that the mafia is only waiting for a new rain of money to Italy from Brussels. They're statements that suck. ( [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] ). They should rinse their mouths before talking about Italy, Italians and bringing the mob into play. You're from the lega group. Bravo! SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Are we waiting for these people's okay? The exact opposite is true: if we do not immediately give money to companies and workers, especially in the most depressed areas of the country, it will be the mafia, the camorra and the 'ndrangheta to lend the money that does not put us the State. ( [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] ). So much for the geniuses of Berlin and Brussels and we wait for an apology. It changes the world, but it doesn't seem that everyone has realized it. When we made some proposals they looked at us with their eyes to the ball. Steps need to be streamlined and speeded up. Gian Antonio Stella wrote this today; there are a hundred pages of decree on liquidity. It is very complicated for the limit of 25,000 euros, for the obligation to certify above that roof and under a certain number of employees the lack of collection; then there is the guarantee of 90 percent, to which is perhaps added the guarantee of another 10% probably with a rate of 1%. This in 37,000 words to help businesses at once. In Switzerland a sheet and a signature are enough and you are credited with 500,000 Swiss francs on the current account, without the passages of trade unions, INPS, ANAC, Court of Auditors. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We have to cut, because someone probably wants to get rich even during the age of the virus. Suspension of loans: we proposed it. He who looks at us from the house is not a Martian; he who has the mortgage is not of the right or of the left. Whoever has the mortgage simply has it, and if he doesn't work hard to pay for it. We have heard the President-in-Office say that all loans have been suspended. Then go find out that if you were already in trouble, maybe you were behind with a installment, you don't suspend anything until you pay the old installment. But how? We should help the last. I felt the friends of the left: those who need the most should be helped. Yet, according to your initiatives, those in need are not helped. The money is for those who may not need it, but those who were already in trouble before the virus - and after the virus, of course, it is even more so - pay the mortgage, pay the rent, pay the bills. That's not how you do it. You ask us why we do not vote on this decree-law? Because it's basically a mockery for millions of Italians who won't see a euro. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] They won't see a single euro. Let's hope you do better for the next one and we'll vote for it. In the matter of rentals: zero. We proposed to increase the rent aid fund; you rejected it, I didn't understand why. It is true that many Italians are homeowners, but those who do not have the money for having bought a house and are in private rent or in popular house do not have from this decree-law a euro to pay the rent. We did not ask for the cancellation - we do not ask for the moon - but the suspension of the bills. In this House I have heard philosophy, American and British quotations: the problem in many homes is the bill of light, water and gas, because if we force Italians to stay at home, they consume more light, more water and more gas, and if they have no money they cannot pay for light, water, gas. Did it seem incredible to create a fund to help those who can't pay the bills of light, water and gas? You didn't want to put that in the decree-law either. You will need to delete the code of contracts, you will need to help those who have folders of Equitalia (we have proposed the balance and the excerpt for the folders of Equitalia of 2018: rejected); you will need a single taxation, a flat tax in order to allow the enterprises to share: rejected. The answer is generally: there is no money, we expect what Europe will tell us. Honestly, I am tired of having Europe's permission to save the lives of Italian citizens, Italian citizens' shops, the work of Italian citizens. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You ask for cooperation, and then, to read what some ministers do, we have to go on television or Facebook. I am referring to the Minister of Education: this is not the last of the issues. We have read a decree-law on the school, of which nothing was known, which moreover - to the face of the merit of the workers! - forgets, scrapes and leaves home thousands and thousands of precarious teachers who have been doing their work for years, and today we read that someone relaunches the proposal that universities from September only open online. You fill the mouth of the word "public" in your mouth; if anyone thinks to have lessons done online only, it is the end of the Italian public university. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If anyone wants to give a gift to private companies, let's hope it doesn't, but then we have to read the news in the newspapers. On the integration fund, by pulling the unions - I repeat - millions of Italians will not see a euro before the end of April. Finally, two reflections. I'm starting with democracy. The Dutch Parliament voted not once but twice to tell the government what it can or cannot do in the Brussels negotiations. Like it or not, the Dutch Government goes to say yes and no on the basis of a vote of Parliament representing the people. We do not know and have not given any mandate, on behalf of the Italian people, to Count or Gualtieri to negotiate in Brussels. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] If they sign even half an ESM, we will present a motion of no confidence in this House to the Government, which is giving a damn what Parliament and its citizens have demanded. And it's not just a ride to make. The second reflection concerns Europe, which we have founded. The beds in Europe, from 2000 (single currency) to 2017 have dropped from 5.7 to 5 per inhabitant. So the beds throughout Europe, in order to live up to the constraints imposed on the GDP deficit ceiling, the spending limits, including Italy, have been cut. They had to close the mountain schools, they closed the birth points and barracks of the police and firemen. I hope that EUR 3 per kilo Europeans have understood that if Europe is hunger, death and sacrifice, it is not the future that we must leave our children in our hands. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's get our country back in our hands, without going with a hat in nobody's hand. Long live Italy, live the Italians [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , and whoever approaches us to the mafia and beggars will rinse his mouth because we have only to teach other peoples and little to learn. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u108	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u109	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u110	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that we are in a strange situation right now. Do not consider me to be pointy; at this moment, we must discuss confidence in trust, because even if I see Minister D'Incà, I understand that the maxi mum amendment has not yet arrived in the Commission. Minister D'Incà, we find ourselves in a curious, truly curious temperie not only parliamentary, but also human. We expected at least more than one representative of the government present today to talk about such important issues. You were very kind and extremely helpful. We broke up a few weeks ago full of good intentions. President Conte said that he would be present in Parliament to a greater extent, with his Government, to try to fill the lack of attention to Parliament and the lack of listening to oppositions. We believed in it; we believed that the work we were beginning to do together, to which we committed ourselves, could really be the organization of a team at the service of the country, because this we committed ourselves to doing. We told the President of the Council to pass the ball, that Forza Italia is in the field, ready to cooperate; that Forza Italia is there with its solutions and its measures, and always there will be. However, Minister D'Incà, I must turn to you and, of course, to Deputy Minister Sileri - congratulating him, welcoming me for his recovery - to say that what we saw was not a game, it was a lonely game of the Government, that made us sit on the bench, made us attend very politely to the work done, rejecting part of our proposals in an absolutely inexplicable way, as my colleague Salvini said before me. If the common goal is to do the good of the country, why did you refuse our request to move the tax and administrative deadlines [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Equitalia until 31 December 2020? You've moved the date to two months. Mr D'Incà, this is political surrealism, not even Salvador Dali could have done the same. This means that the Italians, who are locked in the house and are not earning, do not know when they will go out, do not know when they will start living again, do not know when they will start working again, do not know - a phrase dear to the President of the Council - when they will be able to hug again, but they have the only certainty that in two months they will pay taxes. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] But is that possible, colleagues? Our President, Mr Berlusconi, said today that cooperation does not mean serving; we told you that two weeks ago. To be responsible does not mean to be complicit in solutions that we do not share. We have two fundamental priorities: to secure the country with all the tools we have, someone would say whatever it takes, cost what it costs to our public debt and raise our country as quickly as possible, trying to make it stronger, more modern and even bigger than it was before this frightening frost fell on all of us. So, in the face of this storm, what are the rescuers that the Government is actually launching with this decree cure Italy, net of the announcements? For Christ's sake, we have all learned to be not only spectators in Parliament, but also television viewers. Every week, now even twice a week, we wait... Minister D'Incà, don't go too, please, or we'll stay and talk alone. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I called him to find out about the state of the art. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you. The famous amendment we are debating has arrived, but it has not yet arrived. All this is beyond surrealism; but let us go forward, for the good of the country, and pretend that all this is okay. I was saying that we have asked for very important things and that we have asked them with an act of great willingness towards the Government. We demand that a country that was first and hardest hit by the emergency of the coronavirus should not be the last to take measures in favour of families, workers and businesses, when all the rest of Europe, hit later, has already organized itself, when Germany has already given money to families and businesses, when England has postponed taxes to 31 January 2021. Let's leave the United States alone, other economy and other context. But the first thing to do is not to talk in the live nights and it is not to make wonderful announcements; we all agree to give more liquidity to families, businesses and the self-employed and more money to the municipalities (it has already been said). At that point these announcements convinced people that money would actually come, that some mayors told us that their citizens sent them the IBAN codes to get the wire transfer, that is, to have money that hasn't arrived yet. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Friends, it is not possible to govern this way, generating dramatic expectations in people who are suffering not only from the health emergency, but also because their economic situation is drastically limiting their possibilities. Let's get real. Why have you put your trust in this provision? Why did you do that? We have never been obstructive; give us this answer. I would like the government to be there and the President of the Council to be present. I understand that they will be engaged in negotiations with Europe, I hope in a more fruitful way than has happened so far, but at least one of them could have been here to listen to us, for a form of respect for Parliament that has been promised to us so many times and never maintained. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I was saying that we have asked, very concretely, that the funds should immediately reach the families, the self-employed, the professionals, VAT consignments, the agricultural workers, the coco.co.; this provision provides for them, but, gentlemen, it is 9 April. On the 27th of last month it was payday and still nothing was seen. Colleagues, we have talked a lot about the INPS site: I hope it is healthy, in order to be able to collect the requests of the Cassaintegrati and those autonomous who cannot afford to arrive in mid-May to meet their legitimate expectations. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is 600 poor euros, which we have asked to raise to 1,000 for a matter of dignity of work, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when for two years the people who receive citizenship income have taken 780 without any duty. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] We asked for crime! - that those who still take citizenship income, unlike those who should have the allowance and do not have it, make themselves available to the emergency. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] We asked for this by means of an amendment, to work in social welfare services, to give services to people, to work in agriculture, to avoid - as the agri-food distribution chain tells us - that sooner or later shelves are emptied, because there is a great need for workers in the fields, but there is no one. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We asked for vouchers for this and you said no. Overcome the ideological fences of the decree of dignity; it is not a condition of normality that we are living. Help us to help you, listen to us. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We'd have a lot to say. The tax deadline must be postponed: accept our amendment in the next measure. You can't charge Italian taxes in two months, you have to leave them alone. You cannot charge the Imu on properties dedicated to productive activities that are closed. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You cannot continue to deny the need for a dry coupon of at least 10% for those stores that remain closed by crisis, because the state forces people not to work. You cannot deny a fund to tourism, the induced, the exercises to the public and all those exercises that, due to the need to guarantee social distance, cannot reopen and are suffering. You have to do it. You have to do it. All the other countries are doing it. I move quickly to the so-called liquidity decree. We said to ourselves: this time on the measure care Italy has gone like this. You told us that there is little money, "dolls there is no lira," but on the liquidity decree we thought: this time they will involve us because they told us that they want to cooperate with us. On the liquidity decree, ladies and gentlemen, we have not yet understood how much money will be made available, nor how much money will be provided to entrepreneurs, in what manner and for how long. Where is the famous zero bureaucracy that the President of the Council always talks about on every live television? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] With what interests? It is not by chance for an entrepreneur to know how much he will have and how, with what bureaucracy, with which bank investigations and which SACE surveys. It is useless, ladies and gentlemen, for you to continue to compete, I must say unhonestly, among the Ministries to understand who manages these funds better, thus helping to lengthen the time when companies have to receive their right subsidies. Mr President, I have almost finished (but I have seen that my colleagues, fortunately, have been comfortable talking a lot more, so I would ask for the floor in this case too). Let me give you an example. I've talked about England and Germany. I'd like to talk about France. Our entrepreneur, leader of a large manufacturing sector, has multilocalized. He got a letter to his plant, near Paris, in which it was written: dear entrepreneur, this is your PIN code that you can go to the bank to have access to an extraordinary loan guaranteed by the State to the extent of 25% of your turnover of the previous year (unless you are involved in insolvency proceedings). Why can't we do that too? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Why can't we do that too? It's so easy. We continue not to favour easy solutions and to favor the famous office complicated simple business. So let us try to make a long story something short, because we know that everything is being held and that this measure will not be necessary, nor will it be as sufficient as the integration fund. The integration fund is necessary: first of all it is necessary to give it, because at the moment no one has seen anything and we fear that until May it will be very difficult to see something. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] But, then, it is the enterprise and the work that must be protected. Likewise, for us the words must follow the actions immediately, because there is no time. It is useless to always throw the ball in the gallery saying: interesting this amendment, we reject it because we put it in the next measure. And that's what they say about the next one. Italy cannot wait, the virus runs very fast and phase 2 must be programmed, because the future is now. We say no, Mr President, representatives of the Government, colleagues, to this decree-law, because it goes in the wrong direction. To help our country - as our President Berlusconi told us today - we must have the strength to support our proposals in the interests of the country and the courage of the truth. [[Comments from the M5S Group. Call the president back.]] If they agreed with me, I'd start to worry. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We owe it to the people who left in pain and loneliness. We owe it to their families, to whom we owe respect, who are suffering; we owe it to all those hundreds of thousands of people who continue to summon but who also have to help, who are working with extraordinary courage to get us out of the nightmare as quickly as possible. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u111	Senator Bernini, I invite you to conclude. The par conditio has been widely applied. BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). We owe it to those who are at home with sacrifice and maturity, who have waited and are still waiting. We have a duty to go in the right direction. This decree-law does not go in the right direction. To go in the right direction Forza Italia is always there. Minister, tell the President-in-Office that those who run by themselves may feel that they are going faster, but to run together they go further.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u112	[[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u115	TAVERNA (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I begin by reassuring Senator Bernini, because we do not agree with her at all, so be serene. Every time a speech is made in this House, a piece of time should be stopped, it should be handed over to history and today these explanations of vote should all have the solemnity and importance they deserve, but listening to my colleagues I understand that there are different sensibilities that each one of us has in it. What we are approving is not a simple measure and you can already understand it from the title, care Italy. Due to the magnitude of the measures it carries is comparable to a financial one, a financial one that has been bitten by the emergency, marked by the bulletin of the victims that day after day pours on our country stories of broken lives, dramas of hospitals to collapse, inexorable contagion curves that have forced millions of Italians and billions of people throughout the Planet to close in their homes, while nature outside takes back the place of master on the earth that we have stolen over time. None of us will come out of this story as he remembers to have entered it, at least this is the wish that I do with my heart first and foremost to all of us who in this moment are called to govern events. In a leap we saw our country overwhelmed by an enemy who seemed so far away and instead was so close. A moment later we were called to prepare solutions and care Italy is the beginning of the solution, because from all this we will come out of it, perhaps before other countries that have treated us as anointed and then take us as an example. Yes, because we must not forget that the criticism of the opposition to the work of this Government is daily denied not by the words of the majority or the President of the Council, but by the facts, by the international recognitions, by the plauses of the World Health Organization, by the sense of duty with which the Italians first understood and then respected the provisions given. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] They have done so by demonstrating, far more than we do, that they are united and cohesive, a cohesion that has sunk with hope those balconies on the notes of our national anthem, distant but close, aware that the State would be there and the State there. Today, however, incredibly, similar demonstration is not giving the political class in its entirety and despite the repeated exhortations of the President of the Republic, the frequent meetings (because the meetings were made and were frequent) and the sharing really offered by the majority, we are called to a vote of confidence. Nothing was worthwhile, not even in such a dramatic and at the same time epochal situation, to ensure that at least for the moment the irreducible custom of increasing, albeit unfairly, its consent was set aside. I, as a citizen first and as a senator then, am filled with pride for the great sense of responsibility that accompanied the writing of every single norm of this provision both in the phase of drafting by the Government, and in the phase of conversion and improvement here in the Senate. It fills me with pride, as an Italian, to see the courage, tenacity and determination with which our country is not bowing to any request, to any compromise that has no other purpose than to protect, protect and support the Italian people. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Are you, Senator Salvini, proud of your allies in Europe, the Dutch, Wilders, and the other ally of the Meloni, Rutte, who have approved motions in their Parliament aimed at preventing Europe from using Eurobonds to help not only Italy but all countries? Are you proud of that? They are your allies in Europe. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] No one can afford to call this House and the Italian Parliament a circus, because otherwise, Senator Bagnai, if that were the case, there would be no doubt as to who clowns are. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I have listened in this House to the criticisms made of this measure by the oppositions. Most of them are not sustainable, but I also understand that those who, while Parliament is working, say that Parliament is closed do not understand the complexity of making some proposals sustainable. Some are embarrassing and have been withdrawn, others are obvious, because none of us here thinks that 600 euros for VAT consignments will solve the situation definitively. Nor does the massive allocation of EUR 25 billion solve it, but it is the beginning. It is the beginning of a path that follows the real needs of the country and that has already seen to approve further measures that aim to produce a leverage effect of 750 billion euros. But you obviously don't say that. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I found in the gestures and words of those who govern us the real will not to leave anyone behind, because no one was guilty of what was happening. We have suspended all fulfillment, payment and payment of taxes; we have provided appropriations for the extraordinary redundancy fund for employees and allocated resources for the self-employed, a category courted by everyone but never really protected. We have introduced income support measures and blessed the income of citizenship that today allows two and a half million citizens to deal with this situation in a dignified way. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] We introduced smart working for public administration and then, of course, this provision cures where care should be guaranteed, our health system, what was our flagship with tips of excellence that envy us the whole world. Our National Health Service has been gradually and utterly plundered and mortified and with it the constitutional right to health protection for which it had been conceived. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] A right that the State, through the universal public service, is called upon to guarantee and safeguard. The banality of the public, already, with its claim of transparency, fairness and equality. Then let's go to the public and give it to the private. Remind you of any stories? And today, however, we are struggling to carry out hospitals with great urgency. In 2010 the beds for ordinary stay were 245,000, in 2017 191,000. In 1997 every 100,000 inhabitants had 575 beds in intensive care; in 2015 51 percent less (275). No one is getting worse than we are in Europe, and it was the flagship. The ICU wards, you know, are the ones that were overwhelmed by the wave of hospitalizations that led to the Coronavirus emergency. When the epidemic broke out, we only had 5,000 beds in intensive care. From 2009 to 2017 the employees of the National Health Service were deprived of 46,000 units, more than 8,000 doctors and 13,000 fewer nurses. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Our doctors, nurses and operators are the ones who are proving to be the real backbone of our system. Without them, without their immeasurable sacrifice that for many, too many, has cost even life, all this would not stand. So on my behalf, of my group, and I think I can tell them about the whole Senate and the whole country, it is a huge thank you to them. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups.]] Can we say that in recent years they have been protected, valued, equipped with the necessary technical instruments, put in the condition of working serenely? Can we say that there has been sound and forward-looking planning of turnover or transition from training to vocational training? In this measure we have foreseen a massive reinforcement of medical and nursing staff, a real extraordinary plan of recruitment for more than 20,000 total units. We have also drawn attention to our young and brilliant minds, to our experienced retired professionals and if there is one act that we have considered necessary before all else, it has been to recognize the increase in overtime that these women and men are facing to fight the battle against the coronavirus without letup. Starting from those rubble, we've more than doubled beds in resuscitation and infectious diseases. [[Protests from L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] Intensive care today exceeded 8,000 units in a few weeks, but an epidemic of this magnitude could not stop at a merely sanitary dimension. It carries with it heavy dramas, also from a social and economic point of view. It is a crisis that affects every nerve discovered in our society. We have been stuck for about a month, we had to stop, it was and it is necessary. That's the only way we've saved millions of lives that matter more than anything else. We stopped, we had to turn off our machinery, the lights of the shops and our places of meeting and leisure, but from the beginning we had the perception that the State was there and was at the side of each of us, of each family, of each worker and of each enterprise. If there is one thing that this dramatic emergency is teaching us all (maybe to all of us) it is that in moments like what we are experiencing the immense complexity of the choices to be assumed it is to counter an unprecedented and extraordinary perspective from which to observe everything. A perspective that is only apparently obscured by concern, but that shows the whole world the real priorities to which those who govern must give shape and do so with a clarity that no longer gives alibi. No cage, pattern or pre-constituted constraint. Let's start over. Is there a future that wants to be accompanied and who already tells us that certain ruinous roads are no longer to be beaten? We need each of us to do our part. The greatness of the challenge ahead leaves no time for arid controversy. There is no more time to focus on the luck of the few, but the only thing that is really important is the well-being of everyone. This emergency no longer leaves any doubt; it does not matter to be of the south or north of the world; it makes no difference to be rich or poor. In the face of death we are all the same. And then we do not fall into the mistakes of the past, we do not allow this pandemic to be an occasion of rivalry, struggles of power or profits pursued to the detriment of humanity, otherwise all that man has learned from history is that man has learned nothing from history. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from FI-BP, FdI and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u116	He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u117	Mr President, I am still asking for 15 minutes to be suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u118	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u119	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u120	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, at this point something is wrong. Minister D'Incà, at 12.31 p.m., said that the text boiled by the Accounting Office had arrived. You gave it to him and you judged him to be eligible. At this point there is no possibility of amending the text except for any remarks which might have arisen in the budget committee. So, is the text there, yes or no? Is it the same one that was given to you for the eligibility assessment, yes or no? If we still need a quarter of an hour, I am sorry, but when confidence has been requested, after the explanations of vote, we shall vote on the text which has been deposited. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Period. That's the procedure, ma'am. I remember that on a regulatory level... I would also like Mr D'Incà to listen to me, because our Rules of Procedure are different from those of the House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u121	He was talking to me to explain what happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u122	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, you explain it to Parliament if you want. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u123	Of course he will. I said that because he called him back earlier when he was talking to me. He's definitely gonna do it now.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u124	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Given that our Rules of Procedure provide that the deposit of the government amendment on which confidence is sought overwhelms everything else, which has been done, Parliament is now asking for a vote, because it is full of bullshit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u125	Senator Calderoli, you're a Vice President. I would therefore urge you to use the correct terminology for this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u128	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I am naturally addressing the Government - and I would add that the Minister will kindly listen to me - by associating myself with the arguments of Vice-President Calderoli: I think there are also problems of constitutionality, because if the delay does not depend on the boiling, but on changes, even acceptable, but substantial, that - if I understand correctly - are pieces of the old decree-law placed in the new, there is a problem of repetition of the decree-law itself, which, as everyone knows, is prohibited or at least can happen in certain very particular circumstances. It is therefore not a question of formal changes, but of a delicate moment of modification of a decree-law on the text of another decree-law, which corresponds to a recurrence, in fact, of the text of the previous decree-law. I therefore believe that we cannot do this: I understand the moments of difficulty and the state of confusion - let me say this - but everything can be supported, except that, after the explanations of vote, there is still room for change. The Rules of Procedure clearly state that there is nothing between the end of the explanations of vote and the start of the vote. We haven't broken our..., I won't use that term, in fact I won't use any: we got angry; okay, Mr. President? Is that an expression you can use? We got very angry, so, as Vice President, I said the same things that Senator Calderoli said.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u129	In the meantime, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you not to create assemblies, because Senators Quaestors have worked in these times precisely to try to define the places and respect for security measures. I would therefore ask you to remove all the assembly here in front of you and to resume your seats. Now Minister D'Incà will explain to us what happened.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u132	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, thank you for giving me the floor and I promise you to keep me within the time limit, partly because there is no need for any comment: we still have live television and Italians are realizing what is going on. We cannot continue to waste time, after having repeatedly asked the government to make a schedule. You see that? I say it with great calm, serene peace of mind: the minister D'Incà is a witness to the fact that I have been asking for days whether the text of the maxi amendment will be changed or not. It is obvious that it has been changed, it is useless that they do not answer this question. What has passed through the Commission, however, must be what is being approved in this House, Mr President, there is no alternative and you will be the guarantor of this. I would ask you, however, to put us in a position to plan the work of this House, because this cannot go on. It is really the container that adjusts the content: so you can not go on and there is no more time, neither for us, nor for the country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Senator Ronzulli points out that she wants to intervene.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u133	As Senator Bernini has already intervened, there is no possibility of a second intervention for the Group itself. Mr D'Incà even earlier, when there was agreement between all the parliamentary groups, on the proposal of Senator Romeo, when we started the debate, he said that the text would not be changed, so much so that, when there were twenty minutes of suspension, all the Groups were able to verify - at least this was the objective - all the changes or any comments that had been made with respect to the text, whether they were drafting issues or anything else. I ask Mr D'Incà once again why this delay has taken place: he may explain it to everyone, because I cannot believe that there have been any changes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u134	Mr President, I do not doubt this either. Indeed, I do not even know why Senator Bernini has spoken. There is no change in relation to the maxi amendment that came out of the Commission, subject to the indications of the General Accounting Office of the State, which is currently terminating the boiling process. The text has arrived now; we are sending it to the Budget Committee for the opinion. [[Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] I believe that Senator Calderoli, who is one of the highest experts in the Senate Rules of Procedure, can say that in this way - I believe that everything has arrived - the issue can be resolved. Among other things, today's path has been fully shared with maximum transparency and there is an objective delay of one hour and ten or fifteen minutes. Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Incapacious, donkeys! Go home! [[Protests from the M5S Group]] , Minister for Relations with Parliament. I therefore think that there is every chance that Parliament will be able to conclude voting operations in the next few hours, so in the early afternoon, without further delay. I repeat, it is a very important measure, which is worth 25 billion euros, which contains inside, not only the decree cure Italy, but three other decrees. [[Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] They are therefore four decrees together, on which we have worked with great sharing and for this I thank both the majority and the opposition. [[Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups]] The comparison was constant over time: Senator Romeo, Senator Bernini, Senator Ciriani, who I thanked several times, know that. I do not think that this is a correct attitude towards the Italians, who I do not think deserve the continuous controversy, but they deserve that there are further steps from the regulatory point of view. At this moment there is the deposit of the text in the Budget Commission and I believe that work will be able to go on, I repeat, with an hour and ten minutes behind schedule and I thank you for your patience. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u135	Colleagues, I'm told the text has arrived, so can we proceed? Mr D'INCA, Minister for Relations with Parliament. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the technical report has arrived with the boiling: as I said, it took ten more minutes or a quarter of an hour and it has been ten minutes. Thank you again for your patience and I believe that we can go to the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u136	[[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u137	Excuse me, Minister, but it seems to me that the problem that has been raised in this House is a different one, in the sense that, since the boiling has been delayed, someone may obviously think that there have been problems of coverage. Perhaps you, Minister, had to explain what problems there were or if there was such a thing.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u138	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u139	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u140	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on a point of order, of course. Mr President, I repeat, at 12.31 p.m. today, Mr D'Incà gave me the word that the maxi-boiled amendment had arrived; if there had not been the boiling, of which he is now telling us, we could not even ask the question of trust in that text. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and FIBP-UDC]] So either I am a liar or I am deaf or you, Minister, have lied to this House and, when you lie to Parliament, you resign and perhaps leave a little more room for Parliament. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u141	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u142	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u143	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Senator Calderoli preceded me, but I also wanted to ask why the Minister raised the issue of trust even before the boiling.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u144	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u145	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u146	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to address my colleagues: objectively, on a matter such as the one before us, with an authoritative representative of the Government in this House, with the words that have been spent, the scene that you are making at this time in this country and with a decree-law like this frankly is unacceptable. Let us begin the vote instead of continuing this unacceptable complaint on your part because it does not take any account of the framework we have before us. I just don't think you're realizing what we're giving the country. We are talking about converting a central decree-law to save Italy in this emergency and do you have this kind of attitude? But I have no comments. President. - We shall now proceed to the vote. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups and Senator Errani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u147	It will never happen again that the Presidency can derogate from the normal course of the procedure, and I understand that. This morning there was an informal agreement to give everyone the chance to leave. We therefore had a general discussion. Actually, it was a discussion... ( [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] ). I don't want applause. I said I'll never allow it again. I said that there was an agreement and we had a general discussion which, in fact, was a debate on the issue of trust, which had not yet been declared. So we're out of the ordinary. There was an agreement, certainly not mine, but of all the Groups, to derogate from the custom and regulations precisely to give the possibility to all the senators to leave, because there is a difficulty of transport. Now I realize that this situation has caused an objective difficulty because it is clear that we have anticipated... [[Brusio.]] Sorry, I'm talking to the House; if you're not going to listen, you can go out. Please, let me ask you for a moment's attention. I was saying that we have today adopted a procedure that did not exist, nor could exist, at the agreement of all. It is clear, then, that this has led to a breakdown even in time and even with reference to the work of the Budget Commission because we have preceded them. We should have followed the normal rules. I am sorry and I apologise to this House for what has happened. It will no longer happen because even in circumstances of this type or in serious emergencies such as the current ones I will grant more than not following the rules. I'm suspending the session for 15 minutes. (The sitting was suspended at 2.25 p.m. and resumed at 2.45 p.m.) Colleagues, as I hear that the Budget Commission is still to meet, I immediately call on the Conference of Leaders. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 14.46 p.m. and resumed at 3.11 p.m.) I give the floor to the President of the 5th Commission, Senator Pesco, to report to the Assembly on the financial coverage profiles of the Government's amendment.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u148	Mr President, while waiting for the Offices to prepare the written text of the opinion, I would like to say that the Commission has expressed its support for the Government's major amendment, with a small note which will in any case be annexed to the opinion which will shortly come.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u149	We'll attach you to the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u150	Does the Government intend to accept the opinion of the Budget Commission?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u151	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u152	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his place, with entry into the hemicycle staggered to groups of fifty every ten minutes according to the alphabetical order, starting from the senators members of the Government. Before moving on to the call I wish, in this serious situation that sees us all involved in the personal, relational and economic aspects, to wish you and your families a good Easter. [[Applause]] I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. NISINI, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Botto, Bressa, Buckella Country, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Inizi, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Croatti, Crocioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Nicola, Floridia Gallicchio, Di Piazza, Durnwalanzi, Giaudgelista Faraone, Fattori, Fedeli, Fenu, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Flori, Floridia Falicchio, Piavino, Garruti, Garruti, Giruti, Giruti, I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020 on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 246 Senators voting 245 Favorables 142 Contrars 99 Absent 4]] The Senate approves. It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 18.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u153	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-09-LEG18-Senato-sed-206.ana.u154	The Senate will meet again in public session on Thursday 16 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) I wish everyone a happy Easter. The sitting was closed at 16.04 a.m.
