ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u1	The sitting is open (10:37 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Durnwalder, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Senators, it is with deep emotion that I wish to express on my personal behalf and on behalf of the whole Assembly feelings of strong closeness and condolence to the family, colleagues and friends of Dr Giancarlo Salone, who died last Sunday at only fifty-two years old. Young adviser to the Senate of the Republic, Dr. Salone had quickly become one of the main figures of reference of the Service of the Commissions; this not only because of his undisputed competence in legal and economic matters, not only because of his scrupulousness, professionalism and dedication daily demonstrated at the service of this institution, but also because of his uncommon ability to listen and understand the needs of all, senators, group staff, colleagues, always trying to find a solution to the many problems and the many issues that characterize every aspect of parliamentary activity. Moreover, precious was his commitment as secretary and spokesperson of the Association parliamentary advisors in a particularly delicate period of reforms and interventions that affected the staff of the Senate. A passionate scholar, a mild and reserved person, Dr. Giancarlo Salone was also universally appreciated for his spontaneous humanity and an extremely kind and communicating character. Until the last we hoped and prayed that Dr. Salone could wake up from the coma and recover from the terrible consequences of the tragic car accident he had been victimized a year and a half ago. With Giancarlo Salone he leaves us a very valuable advisor, a good man, a sincere and loyal friend. In memory of Dr. Giancarlo Salone, I therefore invite the Assembly to tighten to the pain of mother and brother Gabriel and to observe a minute of silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u7	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I would ask you to suspend your work. We need to finish some work on the motions and there is an informal agreement between the groups on this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u8	As there are no comments, I suspend the sitting for a quarter of an hour. (The sitting was suspended at 10.48 a.m. and resumed at 11.12 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u9	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u10	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u11	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, pursuant to Rule 56 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to ask for the items on the agenda to be reversed, namely that the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2019 be discussed first, which I believe to be urgent, as well as the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2020, and only after the debate on motions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u12	President Calderoli, your request is, of course, legitimate, but I would remind myself and the House that the order of business had been decided unanimously by the Conference of Leaders. I do not say that in a preemptive sense, I just wanted to make it known that a decision had been taken without raising any questions. A representative may speak for and one against Senator Calderoli's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u13	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u14	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u15	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am opposed to Senator Calderoli's proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u16	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u17	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u18	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I would like to make an explanation of vote against. Evidently I didn't hear...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u19	In fact, we were all getting ready. Let's say that unexpectedly a member of the League Group has already expressed an orientation contrary to Senator Calderoli's proposal. So you can speak a senator in favor and one against.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u22	SANTANGELO (M5S). Mr President, I was impressed by Senator Candiani's proposal, so much so that I declare that my vote will be in favour and I will try to articulate a minimum of the request from Senator Candiani. [[Comments]] It's true, the proposal is from Senator Calderoli. Let's say I can't hide my affection for Senator Candiani, but it was Calderoli. The agenda in the afternoon provided for the discussion of the points indicated by Senator Calderoli, but nothing forbids that we can deal with them even in the morning, also according to what is an agreement that is being sought among the Groups to try to arrive at a single motion. I do not know if we have already arrived but, as a very sensitive point, we could deal with the motions on restrictions on movement in the afternoon and, perhaps, vote on the internal budget in the morning. I understand that senators However, returning to the motions, they are a very important time for debate, because many citizens are also waiting for Parliament's decisions, depending on what may be openings or closings. I note that my colleagues in the League also agree and this time I am in favour of their proposal... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u23	Colleagues, I do not understand the underlying reason for the buzz, almost to dispute. We are dealing with a subject that has been proposed by members of the opposition. Let Senator Santangelo's intervention be carried out quietly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u24	Thank you, Mr President, in fact, I believe that colleagues were stressing their happiness for my vote in agreement with their Group's proposal. Today we can say that this is new. Therefore, Mr President, I am voting in favour of the request for a reversal of the agenda items, as proposed by Senator Calderoli (and also by Senator Candiani).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u25	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u26	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u27	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, I rise on the proposal by Senator Calderoli... [[Comments]] I shall now turn to the order of business, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u28	Colleagues, I have already said before how the debate should take place, so the "living" suggestion is completely superfluous. Come on in, Senator Pharaoh.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u29	FARAONE (IV-PSI). President, yesterday, at the Conference of the Leaders, Senator Romeo (who perhaps is not there and therefore Senator Calderoli took the leadership of the Group "abuse": otherwise, it is not explained) had proposed to us to examine the motions concerning movements before the meeting of the Heads of Delegation, precisely because, with the vote of Parliament, he wanted to condition that meeting and the choices that the Heads of Delegation and the Government would make. The meeting of the Heads of Delegation is scheduled today at 12.30 a.m. As far as we are concerned, we can also not discuss these motions and postpone it until after the vote on the internal budget: No way. But you, as Parliament and as opposition forces, will not get what you wanted, that is, a motion that conditions the choices of the government. For this reason, it seems to me that it is common sense to continue with the examination of the motions on the agenda, so that Parliament has a role and conditions in the outcome of the meeting of the Heads of Delegation, and then we will continue with all the other items on the agenda. It seems to me, however, that the position of the League, which made us another proposal yesterday, which we agreed to because we believe that Parliament should play a central role, is somewhat contradictory.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u30	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u31	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u32	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. I would like to make a request to my colleagues in the League, precisely in order not to point out disinterest and also lack of consistency with the positions taken at yesterday's meeting of the Conference of Leaders, which we all agreed to identify an appropriate timetable so that the vote on our motions and the subsequent taking of action by the Government make sense. I would ask my colleagues in the League to withdraw the proposal to reverse the agenda which, if not, would testify to their total disinterest and the exploitation of the positions adopted yesterday. Colleagues, I would therefore ask you to keep as it is the discussion of the items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u33	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u34	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u35	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I too am speaking on the order of business and also on a personal basis, because at yesterday's meeting of the Conference of Leaders, where I asked - and I was then kindly granted - to begin today's sitting an hour later, the whole debate was focused on the fact that we were even putting in place diversionary manoeuvres so that Parliament would not express itself before the decisions of the Government. I'll say one more thing. In the past few days and even last week it seemed to us to understand - then perhaps we were absolutely wrong - that there was a very strong request to schedule the discussion of motions. There was a very heated debate and pressure also at the meeting of the Conference of Leaders, and we, as a majority, finally agreed on the timing of the debate on motions as we felt it was important to do so. At this point I wonder: was everything instrumental? If that is the case, it is obviously not very much at heart, even to President Romeo - whom I see now - the debate on motions. Mr Romeo, do you remember that the request to schedule it had already started last week? Even yesterday, just for asking to postpone the beginning of the session by an hour, it seemed that there were dilated maneuvers. I wonder if President Calderoli has a role in the government, so he wants the executive to decide first. I don't know, there's obviously going to be some political news from the last few hours. I think at this point it would be good to stop with the instrumental games and stay on the calendar that we have decided. Otherwise, everything is instrumental. You don't care about traveling between municipalities, or anything else. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u36	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u37	You have the right to do so. President Calderoli, I assume you would like to speak on the request to withdraw the proposal? Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). No, by the way, I could ask for a quorum check before the vote. If the objective was the twenty-minute course, I have already achieved it thanks to the speeches of my colleagues in the majority. So, I'm satisfied. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Let's say that, with regard to the objectives, there is a certain plurality, and also a certain confusion, at this moment. Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). In addition to verifying the course of twenty minutes, I also realized the existence of a fracture within the majority because the Movimento 5 Stars is in my favor, while PD and LEU are not. Since I do not want the vote of Senator Santangelo and others, I withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u38	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u39	Well, now that the objectives are clear and the proposal is withdrawn, we can continue with our work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u40	The next item is the debate on motions 1-00304 by Senator Bernini and other senators, 1-00306 by Senator Marcucci and other senators, 1-00307 by Senator Licheri and other senators, and 1-00308 by Senator Faraone and other senators, on restrictions on movement within the national territory during the Christmas period. I call Senator Malan to explain motion 304.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u41	Mr President, Decree-Law No 158 of 2 December 2020 established, for the Christmas period, strong restrictions on movement, which make even more stringent the rules already provided for by the previous decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 3 November, allowing movement only within the municipality of residence on 25 and 26 December and 1 January. We share the need to invite all Italians to extreme caution. Caution must be exercised in all circumstances. Unfortunately you can also get infected among relatives or friends dearest; the virus is extremely egalitarian and affects all social classes, all ethnic groups, all the regions of our beautiful country. So one cannot think, and it is very dangerous to do so, that Christmas is so much and then nothing happens. Therefore, we share and make our own the call for caution: you can meet friends and family but it is not indispensable to embrace, it is advisable to stay at a decent and appropriate distance from people. It can already be a joy to see each other again and spend some moments together, especially for isolated people, for the elderly or even for the non-elder who live alone, for their separate parents and for their children, who have rare opportunities to spend some time together. However, to say that what can't be done on December 24 or 25 can be done before December 20 and after January 6 doesn't make sense. In the meantime you can also get infected on December 15 or January 10, second, unfortunately (but so is life), usually in those days there are holidays, children do not go to school and in many cases parents do not work (even if there are so many who work these days); this is therefore an opportunity to meet again. In other circumstances, before and after, it is much more difficult, particularly as regards the situations of parents separated from their children and the elderly on their own. As a centre-right, we have therefore tabled a joint motion calling for us to go beyond the municipal borders in order to avoid situations of unnecessary discrimination. To limit travel to the municipality is something really written by bureaucrats, even uninformed. [[Applause]] There is no need to be every day on the streets of our beautiful country to know that there are Municipalities like Rome, which has more than two and a half million inhabitants and an extension of 1,200 square kilometers (and there are several like this: think that Malta, a member of the European Union, has 300 square kilometers of territory, while Rome has the quadruple and Ravenna has twice that). Then there are many municipalities below the hundred inhabitants and around the square kilometre of surface. It is obvious that in these small municipalities not only is the pleasure reduced to circulate (this is not the point), but it is extremely unlikely that family affections (parents, children, brothers) are resident in that very narrow territory. The question is to try to limit contacts; very true, we must try to limit them, but let's not forget that we are infected very well even among the inhabitants of the same municipality, it is not that we are infected only by coming out of the municipality. It is clear that long journeys (in many cases, but not always) involve the use of public transport (such as trains, airplanes and so on), where there might be an assembly. But, when it comes to traveling a few kilometers or a few tens of kilometers, it is evident that they will either walk (in some cases bucolic and almost ideal) or go by their own means, therefore without having contact with people who are not part of the same family. It is an assessment that should have been made by those who drafted and signed the decree-law, i.e. the President of the Council and the other members of the Government. We are asking for action now; it is already a little late: it would have been better to do so sooner, because families and people must also plan their travels and try to match their free moments. Arriving at 15 December is already late, but better late than never. The decree-law is of 2 December: if one had intervened when the decree-law was adopted by the Government, it would have been all the easier. We therefore make a very simple request: let us avoid unreasonable discrimination, that is, without any other criterion that is not the case, who lives in different Municipalities. We talked, for example, about extending the possibility of moving to the provincial level or to the level of metropolitan cities: we could integrate this criterion with a parameter of distance kilometers to avoid the many cases of those Italians who live close to the borders of Province, allowing travel in those days. Let us remember that we certainly need to take all the preventive measures with regard to contagion, but we must also think in particular about the situations of those people who are far away from each other and those who are far from everyone and who only in those days so many times manage to see who really cares about them, that is, their families and the most loved ones. The fact of depriving these people of these moments of joy in such a difficult year - let's think about how many families have been affected by mourning, both because of Covid and for other reasons of course - is not good for health either. It is not a matter of good feelings: eminent immunologists, affections, optimism, companionship and comfort of other people say it helps to keep the level of our immune system higher. 11:32 a.m. (Malan followed). In recalling, therefore, that we also need the utmost caution among relatives and among those living in the same municipality, I believe that it is really appropriate to approve the motion that we propose, with any changes that we will certainly examine very willingly, so as to allow people in these very particular days of a very difficult year to be able to be close to their loved ones again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u42	I call Senator Alfieri to explain motion 306 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u43	Mr President, I am speaking on the motion signed by the majority group leaders and I would like to take this opportunity to thank them for the work they have done together on a very sensitive subject, which affects some of the principles of our civil life. I start here because you have to learn to go beyond the derby between aperturists and rigorists. Here we address the issue of complexity: within an increasingly integrated world, it is a question of understanding how the Covid, a challenge that somehow challenges all Western democracies, can be faced taking into account its complexity and in its entirety and how this poses an even deeper and subtler challenge. There is not only the question of the ability to react to the unpredictability of the virus, but also the fact of understanding how all this affects the historical achievements of liberal societies. It is from here that we must start, thinking about how this virus has affected, for example, the issue of border openings and how it affects the free movement of people and goods: historical conquests, perhaps taken for granted, while at this moment all - especially the new generations - understand how delicate it is to affect the topic of mobility between people and the deepest affections. All the more so, for liberal societies it is all the more damn complicated: we are talking about societies articulated in different levels of government, a society in which public opinion must be convinced and in which a process of accompaniment is needed. That is why it is essential that not only the role of the Government and the relationship with the Scientific and Technical Committee, but there should be a protagonism of Parliament, because we are the representatives of that public opinion that needs to be convinced, that it must understand the rules. This is one of the fundamental steps for liberal societies, compared to other systems of power. I'm leaving here, because it's obvious we have two roads ahead of us. Or we give ourselves up to the automation of the technical and scientific committee, and then it would be enough for a technician to take note of the results of the debate within this body, which, moreover, yesterday evening we learned to be conflictual (but this is inevitable, because within liberal societies also the technical bodies suffer from a complexity of visions and opinions), or we try to accompany the work of the Executive with a necessary political debate, exalting the role of Parliament in terms of political direction with respect to the choices that must be taken. So either we give ourselves up to mere technical decisions or try to filter them through the political role and prerogatives of us parliamentarians. This is one of the fundamental points: we have decided to exercise this role, with the indications that we will give regarding the choices that the government will have to make in these hours. Therefore, we recognize the role, the difficulty and the effort of the government, within a liberal democracy like ours (a task similar to what other European countries are doing), but at the same time we claim our role as parliamentarians who can give indications. To do this and get out of the derby between aperturists and rigorists, which leads to nothing, we rely on some key principles by which we can make decisions and help the government to assume them, namely the principles of rigour and prudence, progressiveness, fairness and reasonableness. Rigorousness and prudence are imposed on us by the data and this is evident. We certainly witness the decrease in the rate of contagion, the number of positives on the swabs made stands at around 10 percent, but we probably expected an even greater decrease. So it is right to keep the guard up, especially because we enter a time when seasonal influences can grow, even if this year's devices lead us to be more protected. It is clear that we cannot lower our guard, because we have to keep safe and not stress the health facilities, from which come reassuring data: yesterday there was a decrease of 92 places in intensive care and 423 hospitalized in ordinary medical areas. So there are certainly some encouraging data, but on the other hand the slowness with which the curve goes down requires us great attention, especially on holiday days. On the other hand, there is the principle of progressiveness. I sometimes hear a debate, even extremely easy and superficial, about the fact that in other countries they act differently. In reality, all countries face the same dynamics, with the same difficulties. The debate in Germany was emblematic: in three days they changed three positions. First they said that they would lock down after the Christmas holidays, then they said that it will start with the beginning of the holidays and finally Merkel turned to the public saying that the lockdown would do so immediately. So they have taken three different positions in three days: this is the difficulty of Western democracies in building consensus and in convincing people and public opinion to give up fundamental freedoms, the result of the conquest of previous generations. It is in fact something that has to do with the DNA itself of a people, with its deepest identity, and therefore we also play with this aspect. Then there is the principle of fairness and reasonableness, a theme that we, as a Democratic Party, placed two weeks ago. This is an extremely sensitive subject and I would like to read a passage, also contained in the text of our motion, in which we talk about the deep conviction of the need for these measures to be lived and perceived by the citizens not only as necessary, but also as just and reasonable (presumed indispensable for the purposes of full respect for them). This has to do with the subject of the movement between municipalities - especially between small municipalities - on the days of 25 and 26 December and with the effort that - I realize - must be made to try to hold together all the principles, including that according to which the norm must be perceived as understandable and reasonable by the public. This is a further effort, and that is why we had put in place the need to avoid unequal treatment between small and large municipalities. I do not want to deepen this passage, but the challenge before us is to keep all these aspects and principles together. Therefore, prudence, rigour, keeping a watchful eye on the evolution of the epidemiological framework, progressiveness (so be ready to adapt the measures according to the change of the epidemiological framework), and above all reasonableness and equity: understandable rules. That is why, in addition to the reasonableness and comprehensibility of the rules, we call for the need to restore all those businesses and all those people who are being penalised by them to take very restrictive measures. This must happen at the same time, precisely to explain, to tell, to give the idea to the public that we are aware that, every time we make a necessary choice, fundamental for the health of people, we know that we affect the living flesh of our economic and productive fabric, which is why we have the duty to immediately put in place refreshment measures. I conclude by going to the disposition part of the motion, which summarizes and summarizes the meaning of my intervention, namely the need to put in place restrictive measures: that the Government can do so taking into account the evolution of the epidemiological curve and the need not only to be ready, with next year, to keep under control and avoid the stress of the health structures, but to have the Italian health system prepared for the great plan of mass vaccinations in our country. The motion therefore commits the Government to re-evaluate the measures, with particular reference to movements on 25 and 26 December, on the basis of the more rigorous analysis of the scientific evidence provided by the Technical and Scientific Committee, and at the same time - as I said just now - in the event of new restrictions, to provide for measures of economic refreshment proportionate to the losses of turnover also in respect of those activities for which it is currently expected to open. Our role is at the side of the government in making the best decisions, but by helping it with the story of what we hear every day about the territories from businesses, businesses, our families. We are at the side of the Government, but at the same time we do not want to give up our role as parliamentarians of the Republic. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u44	I inform you that motion 306 (text 2) has also been signed by Senators Lanzi and Sbrollini, who therefore withdraw motions 307 and 308.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u45	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, what we are about to live is a different Christmas from the many that we have experienced: there will be no warm hugs, family meetings, which very often were a time of extraordinary encounter with loved ones moved elsewhere. Nor will there be the many gifts, the tables set up, because many are experiencing a period of severe economic crisis. We are about to live the Christmas of our great-grandparents, our grandparents: an essential Christmas, simple, where small gestures take on immense value. Too bad, however, that the restrictions on travel in some urban contexts hinder the possibility of family reunion during the holidays. In this regard, I simply wonder why a Roman citizen has the possibility to move within an area that extends, as Mr Malan also said, for 1,287 square kilometers (in this way covering 50 kilometers within his own municipality), while a citizen of a small Italian centre is forced to travel limited, often separated from the rest of the family. I think it is right to discuss it today and it is necessary to find a solution, a proportionate and objective criterion, in order to allow equal possibility of movement to all Italians. I take the example of grandparents, perhaps left alone after the departure of the companion or companion of life, forced to live alone in these months of closure, with little social interaction, perhaps limited only to the moments of weekly spending, also often made impossible by the lack in these small centers of commercial activities; is it right, because of a division on paper, that they will not be able to enjoy the presence of grandchildren during Christmas day? Then I think of the separated fathers and mothers, who will not be able to reach their son to deliver the gift on Christmas Day. It is therefore inevitable to think for example of the neighbouring municipalities; let us think for example of Cosenza and Rende, where I come from, as well as of all the hinterland that surrounds them: the density of living in these places is not very high because over the years families have separated and moved in urban areas, leaving aunts and grandparents in the most peripheral areas that have changed in places of the heart. At the same time, however, it is right to think about health protection, about the best method of preventing infection. We don't have blinders, just take a quick look at the data to understand that unfortunately the difficult moments are not finished. We are one of the countries that has suffered and is suffering a health and economic attack among the most heavy in Europe. This pandemic has catapulted us in the hardest year by number of victims since 1944, when the hard years of World War II were still alive. In view of this, caution is essential; it is vital to learn from history and the mistakes made. However, it is sad to see that the Government has learned nothing since the last tragic year. We arrived unprepared for the second wave, while we were thinking about wheelchairs, we took away attention to the real weaknesses of our system: we did not upgrade the regional health systems, especially in the weaker regions, as in Calabria, for example, whose commission of health was extended for another twenty-four months by a second wicked decree. The USCA (special units of care continuity) do not function as they should; the use of public health facilities could have been reduced, which, even for the twelve years of the police station, we knew had a structural limit. That is unacceptable. There has been no work to equip the regions with sufficient rapid swabs, so as to aim for fast screening of the population and it has not yet been thought to work to identify places where the infected can be placed in order to avoid the transmission of the virus within the family. I mean, a real mess. It was October when, announcing the new measures, he stated that he had to do so in order to beg them again during the Christmas holidays. We thought that the path of prevention had been chosen and that they wanted to protect our economy again (only for closed restaurants is estimated a loss of 720 million euros on holiday days); instead, no, we are once again here to hoist in the dark, to chase the virus, accumulating more and more delay. I'm afraid we'll also get unprepared on the issue of the vaccination plan. I hope that these words will soon be denied by concrete facts; it would mean that the administration of the vaccine will have started smoothly and above all without making the mistakes of a few months ago with the flu vaccine. It should be noted, however, that for several weeks, Commissioner Arcuri, delegated by the Government to the management of the most sensitive issues related to the current emergency (not even with superpowers), discusses the administration of vaccines. I express my concerns about the timing of this situation, also in the light of the meeting of the EMA (European Medicines Agency) ahead of Monday 21 December. I therefore conclude my speech with two appeals, the first of which to the Government, in order to apply objective, uniform and clear parameters for travel on Christmas day, as well as concrete, rapid and proportionate aid to those who are suffering even economically. The second appeal is to families to be aware of the great risk they face. Let us act with conscience and a great sense of responsibility: let us join our loved ones but let us take all the precautions. Only in this way will we protect the health of our loved ones; only in this way will we save lives; only in this way will we be able to live the Christmas of rebirth next year. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u46	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u47	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, like Italy Viva, we have withdrawn our motion precisely because all the proposals of our Group have entered - and we are pleased with that - into the joint majority motion, which I also officially request to add my signature. We had already asked for three essential points in the past few days: coherence, scientific data, programming. The chaos generated in recent days, the confusion and also - I regret to say - a technical-scientific committee that had split and split also on the certainty of epidemiological data had really confused the citizens and families and not only those who were planning, on the basis of a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of a few days before, the organization during the Christmas holidays, but in particular the restaurateurs, traders, those who obviously need to have a clear programming also regarding some indications that had already been given (I think about Christmas lunch, and New Year's lunch in a particular way). Today, too, we expressly ask the Government for this consistency, this clear line, as it was written in the majority motion, which really calls for a serious stand-still on this issue. We also call for strict scientific data, which is based on solid foundations and not on splits of the scientific world as well, and clearly maximum protection of the health of our citizens, because it is clear that this is a fundamental point. We are concerned, like everyone else, about the data we have seen these days and also about the images we have seen on the news, about the photos that have appeared in many newspapers, but we cannot live every day with uncertainty, especially when this happens also in the government and in Parliament. That is why we have asked from the beginning to have a clear vision, a programming of what we will then have to deal with in the coming weeks, otherwise we are also unbelievable. We therefore need to have clear ideas within the government, but we also need the centrality of Parliament. Yesterday, with the restorative decrees, a good page was not written, because we had called for a greater centrality of Parliament from this point of view. In the same way, we claim that on health, which is the essential point, we finally say a clear word about the ESM. Even the data of these days, as explained by the daily images, if they are true, show that we need to take these 36 billion euros immediately for health care, because it really means strengthening our hospital structures, supporting and helping a nursing staff and all the socio-health workers who need to be supported, because they do massacre shifts and we know that many structures are in collapse. We have also made it clear - as Minister Hope has also said - that the 9 billion euros on the recovery fund are few. In conclusion, Mr President, we believe that there has finally been a clear line of help also with regard to the movement between small municipalities and the reunification of family members in at least a few days. I therefore believe that always under the watchful eye of scientific data, we must think of supporting families and all those who need to work and resume this country also from an economic point of view. I'm closing with a hint of refreshment. Also in this regard it has been written clearly - and we have said it several times as Italy Viva - that it is evident that if one were to go towards a more rigorous line, with more restrictive measures, we should immediately anticipate adequate refreshments to the loss of turnover also of those who in these days, as restaurateurs, had already made purchases to prepare the restaurants and have supplies of food necessary for the holidays. We reiterate our support for the majority motion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing motions which will affect the organisation of Christmas for Italian citizens. Who would have thought? That was unthinkable a year ago. Needless to hide that in this last year our lives have been turned upside down. We have found ourselves fragile and have been called upon to assess the importance of one choice over another for the sole purpose of protecting everyone's life. We lost nearly 66,000 grandparents, parents, children, uncles, cousins, friends. Everything, every word, every decision we make today and that we have made in recent months has had this boulder on our minds. Among those who are no longer there were also 259 doctors, nurses and health workers who chose to put the care of others in front of their own. We are parliamentarians and we have a duty to represent - in this case also defend - the health and life of our fellow citizens. The request for protection is already acquitted by government measures, always precise, punctual and commensurate with the situation of the country. So be careful, ladies and gentlemen, because while I welcome the position of the President-in-Office of the Council, who has always wanted to safeguard Parliament's prerogative of being able to direct government action, I feel it is my duty to stress the importance of evaluating our every initiative or vote well. In fact, every choice must be supported by concrete elements, and above all, by a solid scientific basis to avoid decisions that can then be impacted as a boomerang on the same skin as the Italians. It is clear that every decision taken by the Government to date has been taken only after having consulted in depth the technical-scientific committee, the social actors and the Regions. Our parliamentary action must be immune, however difficult it may be, from personalistic instances or from a constituency or from something else that inevitably affects judgment. We cannot ignore the current epidemiological framework and its daily and future evolution. That is why I believe it is important first of all to return to structure our judgment and our work around the fundamental criterion of responsibility, a word repeated several times in these months of pandemics. Sometimes we have also abused it because I believe that the majority of citizens have been commendable in respecting the precautionary dictates in the fight against the virus. That is why I also believe that we should not overly stigmatize those who, for example, by following the rules, have intended to visit the shops of the city centres in the last few days. On the other hand, however, I also believe that the tearing of clothes in front of the last DCCM that wanted to avoid great risks, blocking the travels at Christmas, St. Stephen and New Year's Eve, is extremely excessive. In today's motions (and I am glad that a majority agreement has been reached) we want to address a problem relating to small municipalities which seem to be penalized in relation to grades. What is the threshold beyond which to prevent movements between municipalities? It is a very difficult decision to make and, believe me, there will always be someone who would like to raise the bar. Three days: the government asked for practically only three days of sacrifice more pronounced in the two weeks of festivities. Among other things, it has also provided that movements for needs, work or health reasons are in any case safeguarded. Colleagues, let's stop collecting random, extreme and completely instrumental examples. If there are elderly people who live alone and are not self-sufficient, they will be taken care of. It is, of course, a case study that has already been included in the situations of necessity, and there is no need to exploit people in difficulty. Of course, if in the context of the movement between small municipalities it is intended to liberalise lunches, dinners and parties, then the problem is not the Government or the virus itself. Holidays linked to the Christmas period are part of our tradition since the night of time. Each of us has indelible memories of our childhood, when it was really not enough for us to feel the warmth of affections. I come from a large family, we are nine brothers, very close to as many cousins, and when we met for the holidays they were truly moments of pure and genuine joy. Now we've grown up and the grandchildren are already twenty. Imagine how busy our Christmases have been between tombolas, stockings, chatter at the warmth of the fireplace. Mom's eighty-five and she's still full of energy. [[Applause.]] He understood that this year we will not be able to visit her and, precisely in order to be able to relive these moments of family warmth in the near future, we must all make this sacrifice. He understood, did not give up and prepared for all tortellini and cakes, stored in the freezer for when we can reach it safely. It is able to use the video call and we will introduce it via Zoom to a remote tombolata: this is also a way not to leave it alone. Colleagues, many of these prudential rules may appear to be an unbearable limit, but there is nothing that can be put in front of the risk of harming others, our parents, our grandparents. Personally, I find that this year, too, Christmas Day can leave us precious moments. Perhaps, thinking intensely about those who are not temporarily with us will make us appreciate more the time that we will then spend together again. I believe that the deepest thought of Christmas can really be to love our loved ones. If we normally do it with warmth and in company, this is the time to demonstrate it with a tiring, but obliging renunciation. The most important thing is that every choice takes place on a scientific basis, on the basis of data, not on emotional waves; otherwise, having to follow those, I am sure that all of us would like to hear the screams of our grandchildren, our children, sit down at the table, hug us, so share Christmas as we have always done. One last effort is missing and we cannot frustrate what we have done so far; we cannot put those we love at risk. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u49	Senator Astorre is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u50	Mr President, I think that an objective foundation of compliance with the rules is reasonableness and above all that people can share them and also understand them. I think that a regulation, at least as it has been planned to date, that also for the reunion of affections - and not only for that, but also for the movement - on the most important festive days carries out a division between Municipalities, and in particular between Municipalities and Small Municipalities, is objectively not understandable to people. I therefore think that there should be a criterion of homogeneity on the territory, because if there is a danger of contagion, of assembly, in families or in restaurants, where you can remove the mask with more ease, I believe that it concerns both the big cities - indeed, even more so this and the big metropolis - than the small and medium municipalities of our country. Italy is above all a territory of small and medium municipalities, a periphery and a province that often feel mistreated and forgotten, even wrongly (but sometimes rightly so). And, therefore, I think that the government must adopt measures of territorial homogeneity, in the sense that the measures more or less rigorous - I think we are going towards more stringent measures, even with respect to the pandemic curve, the opinion of the Scientific Technical Committee and the health regulations - must be adopted with absolute homogeneity throughout the national territory. Of course, this must be understandable to people because the rule to be respected must be understandable. We also have a duty to make painful, difficult and necessary choices, especially to protect people's health. The protection of the health of people is homogeneous on national territory and, therefore, the criteria that must guide our choices must be prudence, rigour, flexibility in relation to the pandemic trend, reasonableness and, above all, immediate responses to activities related in particular to tourism, hospitality, catering and small and medium-sized enterprises that will suffer to a greater extent than this situation. It is clear why we encourage people to shop in the shops below home. It is very important to buy under the house and give a hand to the merchants, those heroes who get up in the morning and who, in such difficult situations, every day open their shop. It is a heroic situation that we must support and, therefore, measures such as cashback as a positive proposal for the use of electronic money are also right. But it is also clear that the issue becomes complex because of the problem of assembly, which we complain about. We must do everything we can to avoid assemblages and because the situations that can be prodromic to the spread of the influence or the virus of the COVID are very contained. But those who live in the small and medium municipalities of our Italy must feel represented with the equal dignity of those who live in the great metropolis. Therefore, I think that we must approve this motion and that the Government must listen to Parliament. Finally, although it has nothing to do with it, I want to conclude my speech in this way: we are all thinking about Christmas holidays and our loved ones and, therefore, a thought from this House goes also to the 18 Sicilian fishermen who are still prisoners in Libya. I very much hope that, together with us who can celebrate it with our closest loved ones and in full compliance with the rules, the 18 Sicilian fishermen will be able to return home for Christmas and I think that the Government, the Services and those who are competent will also be able to listen to this voice from Parliament. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Maffoni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u52	Mr President, colleagues and fellow senators, representatives of the Government, I am speaking today not only as a senator, but above all as mayor of a municipality with just over 10,000 inhabitants. As some of you may know, I have the honour to dress the tricolor band of the Municipality of Orzinuovi in the province of Brescia. The municipality was hit hard during the first wave of pandemic last March, which forced us to record more than 120 deaths out of 12,000 inhabitants. I know, therefore, how much the Covid can do; I know well how much suffering can cause the tragedy of the coronavirus. However, as mayor, I can only express my concern about the forthcoming restrictions on Christmas holidays. Let it be clear that the priority for all of us is health and, considering what I have experienced as the first citizen in recent months, I can only share every decision that places as a priority the protection of people, especially the elderly and fragile people. Nevertheless, I am convinced, like all the other mayors I could represent today, that protecting the weakest means allowing them to spend a Christmas alongside their loved ones, with the utmost respect for any indication against the Covid. During those days I know for sure, colleagues, that many people will not be able to count on the home care they usually rely on. We all know that it is not the same as living in a provincial capital city or in a large town instead of living in a small town. To this it must be added that many people, often elderly, live alone with their children many miles away. So think of a series of measures that can protect the health of the most fragile in every respect; think of solutions that can guarantee health safety, but also emotional and social health. We believe that it is our duty and duty to do so. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u53	Senator Masini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u54	Mr President, before I go into the substance of the Christmas decree, I would like to take a little step back, when last March the Covid turned our lives upside down. Obviously at first we all found ourselves dismayed by this new and indecipherable situation and this led the Government to make emerging decisions on the wave of haste and fear and we, the oppositions, to tolerate choices that already with the hindsight of then, but certainly with the hindsight, have often found themselves daring and incongruent. The Italians had to face a situation with frustrating limitations for our way of doing and being. Even Easter, a traditional moment of resurrection and light, has unfortunately been dark and painful. Now there is an approach to Christmas, whose labor and childbirth risk being - alas - equally painful and dark. After ten months of pandemics it is no longer possible to deal with the situation by proposing solutions of dubious utility, while only a little 'healthy and old common sense would suffice. For this advance that we will present a text 2 of the motion, where, in addition to the request for a better sense of travel, we will also ask for compensation - and I stress compensation and not refreshment - for the loss of turnover of 75 percent if some commercial activities were to suffer damage from the choices of the Government. Needless to spread salt, in fact, on the wound of the billions spent on wheelchairs or on the failures of the various bonuses: an apotheosis of meaningless expenses and an absurd waste, as well as it makes no sense to encourage the expenses with cashback and the lottery of receipts and then wonder that the Italians do what they were asked, that is to spend money in physical shops to restart the economy. Speaking of common sense, it would be very little to understand that there is a clear contradiction in allowing millions of Roman citizens to travel kilometers and kilometers, within their vast municipality, and forcing the few souls of the Municipality of Abetone Cutigliano in the mountain of my Pistoia, or Volturara Appula, which has 392 inhabitants, to remain in their small enclosure. You see, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a matter of making rough choices, it is a matter of causing lapalissian damage to our fellow citizens. Suffice it to say that often in these small realities that I have mentioned there is even a lack of commercial activities. You can't even make a small Christmas gift, unless a pack of flour is considered a Christmas gift. In short, I do not know how the choices are made, but it comes to think that Deputy Minister Sileri, in today's interview, is right to say that, perhaps, we are more concerned about carbonara than about studying pandemic situations well. Apart from these jokes, which, however, made the Deputy Minister and not me (so, I am not wrong to anyone), I believe that this, like many other initiatives taken since the beginning of this emergency, is the result of a complete removal of politics from the citizens and from their real life. It seems to me that you do not have the weight of the social fabric on which your measures taken night time fall as dark; that you do not know the morphological and orographic structure of our country, rich in municipalities and fractions with less than a thousand inhabitants. It seems, and perhaps indeed so, that you do not know that there are separate parents, citizens out of office, not only for study but also for work, forced to stay away from their families throughout the year and waiting for Christmas day to be together. Conviviality, family life, traditions are not vices or habits to which citizens do not want to give up by whim, but are an integral part of our identity. Government colleagues, I strongly believe in prevention and precautions. We share, as Senator Malan said, prudence. In order to facilitate and speed up the recovery of all, however, it is also necessary, as well as prudence, to know what is chosen for their citizens. When we asked them for sacrifices, our citizens were good. It's not true they didn't follow the rules. Italians know how to respect the rules; paradoxically, the opposite is true: they know how to respect them too much, but they need to have certain rules, not schizophrenic, and that the perimeter of these rules is defined by common sense. Instead, the approximation and superficiality of many, if not all, the initiatives taken by this Government have only increased their confusion. Again, perhaps the diligence of the good father or mother of the family would have sufficed. This can help you to try to protect our fellow citizens in every way, without distorting the most basic freedoms. Of course, to do this one must know one's own people; to know what are the requirements that characterize them and to make, according to this, the best decisions. This, in my opinion, is the most serious mistake of this Government: not having demonstrated the proper sensitivity towards the priorities of the Italians. Listen to them and let's give them a Merry Christmas. [[Applause.]] (at 12.15 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u55	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u56	Mr President, I am speaking with the words of former prosecutor Nordio. All the measures, even the most radical ones, can be justified in an emergency situation, provided, however, that they are rational. Many measures taken by the government to counter the pandemic appear irrational. For example, we start from the fact that it looks like restaurants are safe at noon but they are not safe in the evening for dinner. [[Applause]] We don't understand that. The shopping malls are closed on weekends and then it is surprising that all the gatherings take place in front of the small shops in the centers of the cities. [[Applause]] We start in a pump with cashback, inviting citizens to go and spend. Spend: 10 transactions by the end of the month (you left on December 8th) and we can give you back 10 percent. So, an invitation to go to the shops and then blame the citizens for going there. Here too, we do not understand the reasonableness of certain rules. [[Applause]] You give the vacation bonus, but then, in the end, on vacation basically you can not go and it is forbidden. At Christmas, in Santo Stefano, on New Year's Day travel is forbidden. In the big cities, however, you can move without problems, with a very high mileage, if we think of the metropolis such as Rome, Milan, Naples, Turin and the metropolitan cities. There are examples of very close municipalities, one kilometre apart, whose citizens cannot meet. There are limited cases; for example, I quote St. Michael, on the Modena Apennines. St. Michael is divided into three parts: if I go into the garden, I basically go astray. [[Applause]] Can such a rule be reasonable? I don't know. On Christmas Day you can't move, with the result that many citizens bring their loved ones home on the 24th, they keep them for three days, then bring them back to their home on the 27th; which, from a health point of view, is worse. [[Applause]] I'm not a scientist, but I think common sense says it's worse. The norm contained in the decree currently in force provides that from 21 December to 6 January 2021 you can not move and everything is blocked. Is it reasonable enough to think that 19 or 20 December, as well as 7 or 8 January, will there be gatherings? Is it reasonable to think so? Sure. Does that sound smart to you? No. You may anticipate the bans on December 19 or 20, but there will always be someone who will mobilize the day before to try to overcome them. People, with responsibility, follow the government's instructions if these are reasonable. [[Applause]] If they are not reasonable, people are led to violate them. What does the intelligent government say about public transport? I reduce public transport, the number of trains and planes, so I don't invite people to leave. What a find! So, all assembled on the few trains and planes there are. Congratulations! [[Applause]] It is certainly difficult to govern, manage and counter a pandemic. The protection of health comes first - let it be clear - but we must also try to use a little brain and common sense, which is what this Government absolutely lacks. Doesn't the list of rules I've made to you seem unreasonable to you? I'd say so. Make all the decisions you want. By the way, I'm very disappointed in your motion. President Conte has said several times that it was Parliament that had to decide, and then the majority in Parliament has a united motion that basically dumps responsibility on the Government. What a disappointment, gentlemen! [[Applause]] If this is the parliamentary majority, I believe that Conte does a bit of what he wants. [[Applause]] This is the result that you will achieve by doing so. In any case, we are for health protection; take all restrictive measures. The Scientific Technical Committee - I say this very clearly and I urge you to listen well - has basically said that more restrictive measures must be taken during the Christmas period. Do so in agreement with the Regions and, if you have to close any activities, this time provide for refreshments that are up to the situation and cover at least 75% of the turnover lost, with serious compensation. [[Applause]] There's a Christmas lunch, though. As happens in Germany, where everything was closed, for Christmas day, without making big gatherings (no one will have lunches with 20, 30 or who knows how many people), allowed 7, 8 family members to see each other, no matter where they live. In fact, we have so many cases of lonely people (I think not only of the elderly, but also of the children of separate parents). Is it possible there isn't a little focus on this? To make you understand this and maybe to convince you, I'll read you a letter arrived at a mayor of Brianza: "Good morning mayor, I am a resident of Lazzate, but domiciled in Lentate sul Seveso. Let me write to you to tell you what happened to my family in 2020, a year to forget. We have been living in Lazzati for a few years; we have bought a house where I, my mother, my father and my sister lived. Unfortunately, on January 2, a heart attack hit my father, who left us, and on July 9, a fulminating tumor also took my mother away. They were sixty-three and sixty-two respectively. My sister and I stayed; we have no uncles, we have no grandparents. I have a boyfriend I live with in Lentate and my sister lives alone in Lazzate with our dogs. Last night - the letter refers to the day after the release of the DPCM - I heard the new DPCM and, as I expected, the world collapsed on me. In a terrible year like this, how am I supposed to spend Christmas without what's left of my family? Whoever governs does not know what happens in families, does not know what it means to spend a holiday with two mournings on the shoulders and in complete loneliness. I'm really on the ground. She, her sister and her boyfriend: three people you can't see because they live in two municipalities that are neighboring. But in Rome, Milan and in other realities you can also see ten people, because anyone can move. Where is, where is, where is, where is, where is rationality in these norms?! [[Applause]] Health - and I tell everyone - is also affection and love. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u57	She is registered to speak Senator Pavanelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Christmas festivities, to which we are very close, are an important moment of sharing, in which families and friends meet to spend time together. Unfortunately this year cannot be so, it is useless to go around. We know very well that we are not living in normal times; we are in full pandemic. A health crisis has made us lose over 65,000 fellow citizens: grandparents, parents, children, work colleagues and friends. Each of us in these long eleven months has lost someone dear. Others have been ill and have experienced days of terror, with serious consequences for their health. We've had almost 2 million cases. We've been at war, we've all been saying it for months. What are we gonna do now? Tell us we're not at war anymore because it's Christmas Day? We cannot make mistakes: it is human heritage that suffers a tough, hard attack on a global level. It is true that in recent days the measures have been tightened; it has happened in Germany, Great Britain, the Netherlands, the state of California, the city of New York, where it has been decided to activate the most rigid lockdown, a few days after Christmas, inflicting a severe blow for traders and citizens. Why? Just check the growth curve, for example in the US post Thanksgiving, a major holiday for them, where everyone has moved from one city to another and from one state to another to reach their loved ones. This data shows us the danger of opening up to mass movements during Christmas holidays. The choices are political, it is true, but they are choices that must be made on a scientific basis. I understand that the League, with its leader Salvini, who refused to wear the mask here in the Senate (among other things during a conference of negationists), could underestimate all this. But for example, Mr Gelmini, not later than last Monday, thundered against the crowd in the streets, saying that we must absolutely avoid a third wave of Covid in Italy, because our health system would not hold it and even less our economic fabric, already hard hit by the crisis. So thundery. But then we have to pretend nothing at Christmas; talking about restrictions has even been called inhumane by someone. [[Applause]] Dear colleagues, inhumane is what doctors, nurses, health workers and all the volunteers who are taking care of our sick Covid all the time. We have heard that our elders would remain alone, when they are not, because they are already expected to be able to move to help a person who needs it. This is certainly - let it be clear - far from the Christmas table we are used to, to the wonderful families gathered around the same table: there are families in which two, three or four families gather only for the holidays. Unfortunately, this year is dangerous. It is a suffering, it is for everyone, but we have no other choice. In Italy this pandemic was immediately managed with promptness. The government has strengthened health; we have put more than 12 billion in the field, totally reversing the dramatic trend of cuts (well 37 billion in the last ten years). At the same time, we supported companies and workers in difficulty: with the decree of restaurateurs, voted just yesterday in the Senate, the last of a long series, we have allocated 19 billion. President Conte has appealed to the responsibility of all Italians, inviting them to keep the level of guard high, so as not to risk making vain all the efforts and sacrifices made so far and find ourselves again with a wave of Covid-19 after the holidays. In these days we have seen scenes of gatherings in the Italian cities, with the streets of the historic centers, shopping and entertainment that have been invaded. The citizens, understandably tired after eleven difficult months since the beginning of the pandemic, may have succumbed, hoping for a return to normal, while any unnecessary movement of ours now risks being dangerous. It must then be reiterated that every decision of this Commission - I repeat, every decision - has been taken for the good of the citizens, because their health must always be protected, even on Christmas Day. We must not give in to the desire to spend the holidays with our loved ones, if this represents a risk for them; we have a duty to protect our parents, our grandparents, our fragile ones. The time will come for hugs, kisses and celebrations sitting around large tables with relatives and friends, but this time is not now. We sacrifice this Christmas because the sacrifice of each family will allow us to celebrate many others together. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u59	The debate is closed. I call the representative of the Government, and I would ask him to give his opinion on the motions put forward.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u60	Mr President, the opinion is in favour of motion 306 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci and other senators, while it is against motion 304 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u61	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u64	Garavini (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Italians have shown great self-esteem in recent months. If we have managed to reduce the number of infected and dead, despite the difficult conditions, we owe it to the many of them who, for months, have diligently adhered to the strictest rules laid down by the Government. That's why I think we should say thank you to the Italians for what they have managed to do, rather than yelling at them all the time because of the few who do not respect the rules. Italians have months of mourning and suffering behind them, in which everyone has made so many sacrifices. Many, too many have known Covid closely because they have lost loved ones or because they have become ill themselves or, again, because they are suffering the economic causes of the pandemic. There is no person in our country who does not experience a state of deep anxiety, for the effects caused by this bloody virus. In such an extreme and dramatic situation, the role of the institutions becomes even more important than usual, in order to put in place measures aimed at the protection of its citizens, but also to grasp the state of mind and be a reference point, able to inspire confidence and reassure with respect to the future. Italians, our people, are already proven enough and do not need extemporaneous decisions, nor do they need choices that change continuously. Unfortunately, this is exactly what our fellow citizens are assisting: families, traders, workers, people who watch the news every day and still do not know if they can plan something, from here to ten days. This applies to the individual, who may have already bought the train ticket, to spend his holiday days with his elderly parents, and it also applies to thousands of businesses, who still do not know whether they can offer their work or not; whether they will be able to occupy their employees or not; whether they have to supply themselves with the necessary products to work or if they risk wasting valuable resources, then having to throw them away, because they are always in the balance, with the doubt that, at any moment, they change the rules again. Let's try to put ourselves in the shoes of those who have their own business, a restaurateur or the owner of a bar: how do they have to settle for the next Christmas days, which often contribute up to 40 or 50 percent of the entire year's turnover? They do not know how to behave and this is unfortunately the truth. Not even ten days after Christmas, we haven't put them in a position to organize. As Italy Viva we have been saying this for a long time: we are to reopen, safely, with the respect of the precautions and the rules of sanitization gradually prescribed; with the increase of the races of public transport, taking all the necessary measures to avoid assembly. If, however, the majority prefer to take more restrictive measures, we will take note of them, but we do so by relying on certain, scientifically proven data, in a consistent way and giving precise indications, without contradictory decisions or due to the images transmitted by television. Also because, Mr President, what should we expect from the streets and squares of Italian shopping, if not the life that comes back to fill them, as soon as the restrictions are slowed down? It is normal, it is human and, above all, it has been fueled by the same decisions taken by the Government, insofar as it has been repeated for weeks to close in autumn to save Christmas. It has been said for weeks that Christmas was to be saved and, to do so, a series of limitations, more or less stringent, on a regional basis, have been adopted, based on the RT indices, that is to say, that parameter indicating the ability of the epidemic to expand. These measures have brought clear improvements compared to the number of infections, so much so that the RT index of contagion, on a national basis, unlike that of other countries, has fallen below the critical threshold of 1. Now we cannot be surprised if people, with due attention - the mask and the right distance - go down to walk and go to the shops. We have said that we want to close down the shopping malls, that we want to save the historic centers; we have invited people to go to the shops in person, telling them that, if they buy there and not on the Internet, they will have back some sort of prize, the so-called cashback, and now we are surprised if they go downtown to shop, that is if they do what we have suggested to them to do. [[Applause]] This is likely to turn into a colossal mockery. It is an attitude that, like Italy Viva, does not belong to us. We are not guilty of those Italians who are perfectly in line with the laws that have been proposed to them, nor are we to make decisions just because other countries are adopting them. It is true that Germany, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom, after months of limited restrictions, have set new targets for economic activity and travel. But it is equally true that these decisions have been dictated by a very different context from ours, in which there has been a sudden increase in the respective curves of the contagions and a worsening of the pressure on their hospital structures, which we have managed to prevent, thanks to the differentiated measures, adopted in recent weeks in the different regions. That is why we are now calling for greater coherence with the policies that are intended to be adopted. In our opinion alarmism must be avoided, just as sudden changes in rules must be avoided. Only a few days ago the hypothesis of remodulating the last decree had been ventilated through a loosening of the constraints on the movements between Municipalities under Christmas, except then the opposite hypothesis of an even more severe lockdown: all statements that create disconcert between the people and damages to the economy. We are pleased that the whole majority has agreed to converge on our proposal so that the Government's decisions on closures are taken on the basis of objective and transparent scientific data, guaranteeing immediate feedback to those who have to close. We must provide certain elements, in advance, to citizens, workers and businesses so that they can be organised in good time. It is necessary to give peace to all economic operators who claim closure to the extent that guarantees are given to them in relation to the allocation of adequate resources to compensate for the shortfalls. I am thinking of the world of culture, catering, tourism, hotel facilities, but also of all those freelance professionals and those exercises and service providers that will not be able to work. There we should take countries like Germany as a model, where the Minister of Finance has announced that the activities hit by lockouts will be able to ask up to half a million euros of contributions to refreshment, precisely, of the missed revenues: figures that sound unimaginable to think of them as refreshment, but that can actually correspond to the lacked revenues of well-functioning companies. Mr President, Christmas is usually synonymous with abundance: abundance of affections, abundance of company, even economic abundance. This year, however, the Covid will force us, by necessity of things, to a Christmas marked by scarcity and lack: lack of one's loved ones, lack of closeness, lack of security for the future. It is even more urgent, then, that as a government, as legislators and as institutions we try to fill the sense of disorientation and emptiness, assuming in time wise and consistent choices to ensure in difficult times the best Christmas possible for all. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u67	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, what we are experiencing is a hard test for all of us. Citizens are not only measured by the virus and its economic consequences, but also by new habits that are the result of the rules now enacted by the Government, now by the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, now by the ordinances of the mayors. No one questions their importance and the fact that they sometimes have to react quickly to the evolution of the epidemiological framework; but to be accepted by the population, these rules must be understandable and fair, in the sense that sacrifices must be distributed fairly among all citizens, and must not change continuously. The last DCCM gave precise rules with reference also to the Christmas period: people arranged with these rules. In South Tyrol - for example - we did a mass test, in which almost 70% of the population participated, in which it was promised that, if it had participated in mass, we would soon become a yellow zone. Well, even if we already have the presuppositions, we will become the yellow zone on Sunday, and Monday will trigger the restrictions of the Christmas period. The rules already restrictive cannot be changed a few days before their entry into force just because they frightened the images of shopping last weekend; they cannot further limit people who have always adhered to the rules just because some have transgressed them. You need to check more and not tighten the rules. I wonder, in fact: what has changed since you issued the DPCM with the rules on Christmas? Nothing, indeed, as expected, all Italy has become a yellow zone. There's no reason, then, to change the rules again. The approach of continuous changes is perceived as unfair, as is also poorly tolerated the prohibition of movement between the municipalities around Christmas and New Year's Eve. In Milan, Naples or Rome there are millions of people who can meet and travel freely, but in Italy there are also 5,500 municipalities that have less than 5,000 inhabitants, of which almost 2,000 with less than 1,000. In the days around Christmas for those who live in a big city the prohibition of movement will not in any way compromise the possibility of having social interactions and to carry out a whole series of activities; instead, parents and grandparents living in a small municipality will not even be able to see children and grandchildren. But it's not just that. Those who live in the small towns will not even be able to take a walk in the mountains in the open air, when those who live in Rome will still be able to move on a territory greater than 1,000 square kilometers. I think that there are much more dangerous situations than an open-air walk in the spread of the virus: nourishing of the interaction and proximity between people, are the centers of greater density those that should arouse concern and not the places where there is a house every 500 meters, even if we speak of two different municipalities. It is no coincidence that in no other European country is a ban on exit from its municipality during the Christmas period. Many measures taken so far in other European countries are the same as in Italy, from the closure of bars and restaurants, to curfew, to the closure of schools. Italy, however, is the only country that wants to limit the freedom of movement between neighbouring municipalities during the holiday days. Moreover, Italy is also the only country where in the days around December 25 there are more stringent provisions, while elsewhere we will proceed with a loosening in order to allow families to spend Christmas together. In Germany, during the lockdown, you will be able to meet at most five people from two different homes, with the extension to ten for the days from 24 to 26. In Austria on 24 and 25 December, a maximum of 10 people can be gathered, provided they come from a maximum of two houses. In Switzerland the meeting of 10 people is allowed until the curfew, which for 24 and 31 is brought to one at night. In France, curfew is suspended on the eve night. In Britain, where there is a ban on meeting with non-living people, the members of three different houses between 23 and 27 December will be able to meet. In Spain, on Christmas night, curfew will not take place at 22 or 23 hours, but at 1.30, with the possibility of bringing together up to 10 people. This approach, which - as you can see - is the common European approach, should also take Italy to ensure that families are together at Christmas. For this reason the Group for the Autonomies will not vote on the motion of the center-right, which is too restrictive and refers only to December 25, nor that of the majority, which gives the Government the power to re-evaluate everything, to change the cards again on the table, even if taking into account the equal treatment between small and large municipalities. That is why I am calling for our abstention. [[Applause.]] 12:48 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u70	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just now I listened to my colleague from the Democratic Party, who shared us between open-minded and rigorist: it is an old habit, that of left-wing friends, to divide the world between parts, that is, the right and the wrong, the beautiful and the ugly, open-minded and rigorist. At this point I am attacking and suggesting a division between responsible and innocent. Responsible are those who take the measures, that is, theoretically Parliament, but in practice the Government (to date it has always been so); innocent are the Italian citizens who find themselves subject to these measures (sometimes object more than subject). Another division could be that of land or extraterrestrial. Are we standing on the ground, living the world that surrounds us, or are we in our theoretical universe absolutely parallel, a sort of avatar that governs a dramatic situation and that seems not to be the reality of the facts? We are opposed, colleagues, and the opposition is notoriously not responsible for government actions. The opposition denounces, proposes and, if it shares, participates in the decisions. This time we have forced the characteristic of our role and we have suggested, in view of the measure of 2 December which contained restrictions for Christmas Day, 26 December and 1 January, that we bring back to the appropriate place, namely Parliament, a debate concerning the basic conditions of civil coexistence, our traditions, our best moments: Christmas Days. This is what the majority theoretically had to do. We have done so; we have taken responsibility for a motion which even proposed the elements of a solution, which, I repeat, the opposition is not obliged to do. The motion has been laboriously scheduled for today. President Conte said from Brussels, hotly, about our motion, that if Parliament takes full responsibility for it, it wants to introduce some exceptions, of course it is sovereign. Well, today a meeting began at noon: it was announced this morning by agency news that the government will decide on red or orange zone for Christmas day. Last night the TG2 even published a slide in which it indicated that for Christmas - holidays and prefectures - bars and restaurants would be closed, that it would be declared a total red zone, with closed shops and prohibition to leave their home. Colleagues, you have decided to abdicate in an absolutely unbridled way. We take the credit for helping you to bring this debate back to the proper forum. You continue to seek the best solution, which is the discharge of responsibility and the delegation to this Government, which is absolutely unlikely to take decisions that are the responsibility of this House and Parliament. On the merits of the matter, in dealing with this emergency - colleagues, I have said it several times - we have always chosen the path which is certainly easier, but dramatically more damaging, than the restrictions of freedoms: of enterprise, civil, religious, social, family. The other road, which a serious state and a government worthy of this name with a substantial majority should have taken, is that of health containment, my colleague Mr Sileri, that of testing. Even today we are doing about 130,000 tests a day, when it would take at least three times as many. We do not yet have the protocols of home and hospitalization: a sea of inappropriateness governs this affair. We have not yet seen, if any, a vaccination plan. We are not talking about the pandemic plan because time does not help me - we will talk about it in due course - but a vaccination plan, my colleague Sileri, did you see it? Is he there? Just say yes or no to the boss. I'm gonna be wondering what a vaccination plan is for. Your supercommissary, general Arcuri writes, a ban - here he is - with which he commits nearly 600 million to identify 3,000 doctors and 12,000 nurses; he divides Italy into five areas and everything else. Behind all this there is Arcuri who believes Napoleon and puts on the hat or there is a vaccination plan that establishes who does what, with what dimensions and with what objectives of prevention and care? I ask Mr Sileri because, according to the Ministry, he is notoriously aware of the facts. Colleagues, today we have exorbitated our role of opposition and we have suggested a motion that basically said three important things: firstly, it stated that it was necessary to modify the territorial scope of freedom of movement from municipal to provincial or metropolitan area, on the single day of the 25th, on Christmas day, to be limited even to the only lunch, for the obvious consideration - said by all, but by no one accepted as a solution - that Rome is not equal to a Municipality of 12,000 inhabitants, like that of my friend Mayor Maffoni. Secondly, it was intended to provide, in any case, in compliance with the precautionary principle and maximum caution, for family reunification with elderly people, persons with disabilities or children with separate parents. There are such cases. You can't make all the grass the famous beam. Thirdly, we considered the possibility - now added - of providing for economic compensation measures for at least 75% of turnover losses; if we want to imitate Chancellor Merkel and we want to be as good as her, we must imitate her in everything, and not just in restrictions. [[Applause]] We must obviously imitate it also in the compensations, otherwise something does not return to our economic operators already dramatically smitten by this epidemic. With regard to all this, we have done our part. What part of you, my colleagues in the majority, are you acting? After making statements on the centrality of Parliament and with Count who even says "under your responsibility," with his finger raised as a family tradition, do you come to tell us that you put every decision in the hands of the Government on such a delicate, difficult issue and that it should be addressed for the benefit of Italians who today, 16 December, still do not know what they will have to do in nine days' time, on 25 December? In conclusion, I urge you to have an "epydermic" reaction: have at least one whisper. We allow the displacement of our sailors who are still in the hands of a foreign country, so that they can reunite with their family members. [[Applause]] Let's go get them, like any state worthy of this name would. Enough of this scandalous affair. Let us at least allow our sailors to spend Christmas with their loved ones. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u73	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I am listening to a lot of certainty, but I also have questions. I don't share the world between good and bad and, above all, I never put myself apart from the good. However, I am convinced of one thing, namely that the priority, I think for all of us, and also for my colleagues in the opposition, is the following: given the experience we have had in this country - August, to understand us - I think that none of us want to take the risk of finding ourselves again in the situation we experienced in that month. We talk too little about it: someone wrote it and I agree, first of all for the victims, a frightening number on which we should also reason at a more serious, quieter time. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u74	Colleagues, can you pay more attention or at least lower the tone of your voice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u75	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). I would like to say that the economy, in a situation like the present one, does not find a solution if we do not defeat the virus. And as the facts show, it's a low virus. I am increasingly convinced that the debate we are having should stay away from the political confrontation. Moreover, we have already had several reproofs, colleagues: how many statements have been made, and by the same radically modified, precisely on the open-close issue, more-less? The list is endless. Haven't we learned yet? We should learn and try to understand that, in such a complex situation, the right answer in abstract does not exist. Certainly those who do not make decisions are right and have the possibility to say that the decision taken is wrong: you can also make this game. Mr Zaffini has read many press agencies and many press releases and has not read one - indeed he has read two, but I would advise him to read also the third - in which the Presidents of Veneto and Friuli-Venezia Giulia ask exactly the red zone. But why, colleagues? In a reflection on the data that are emerging they feel the responsibility to avoid taking the risk of finding us, on 7 or 8 January, again in a serious pandemic situation. That's the truth. I would also like to say to my friend, Senator Romeo, about your motion, that a country called Longastrino is divided into its main road: on the one hand it is in the Province of Ferrara and, on the other hand, it is in the Province of Ravenna. There is no solution that solves all the problems. So, ladies and gentlemen, with our motion, let us say two very clear things. I would like to help you read the first one: we take into account the measures taken, including the decree of 2 December, the theme of giving balance to the question of small municipalities, in the key of giving as much equity as possible to a citizen of a small town and to one of the city of Rome or Milan. Having said that, it is clear that we must recognize, in the face of the damage that the operators will suffer - as already planned - an adequate compensation. I want to say what I think to the full: I will vote on the motion, but I want to say my thoughts. If the priority is to avoid what happened in August - I do not want to underestimate affections in any way, the meaning not only for those who have faith, but also for those who secularly live with their families the great aspect of Christmas and I am as concerned as you about it and, in fact, I would not have read that letter for a clear reason - I am convinced that the risk of spreading the pandemic must not run it. In the current dynamic we will have to say clearly what needs to be done: we have to stay at home. I say it with great serenity. I would like to see a more common sense among us on this point - criticism of the government -. The most appropriate answer is: stay at home. The message must be clear for all Italian citizens, because they have responded well; but it must be given credit and we must avoid confusion. We are asking for scientific certainty, but we already have one: the diffusion is so significant that any form of circulation is at this stage a risk element. Since in January I would like to reopen schools and resume economic activities, it is necessary to avoid being with the overlap between influence and Covid and in the conditions of starting over again, as a success after the summer. If anyone has other certainties, the explicit ones - I do not mention the President-in-Office of the Council - of course by explaining to all of us what responsibility he is able to take. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u77	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u78	Mr Marcucci (PD). Mr President, authoritative Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Democratic Party has made a strong point since the adoption of the recent measures, which has emerged not out of the will of anyone, but because, in making important decisions and in an emergency for public health, there can also be apparently imaginary facts concerning the rights of individuals. Therefore, we have highlighted with great strength and determination the theme of the movements, of the ties and of the affections of the people, who need in a particular period such as that of Christmas a visit of a relative of first or second degree. And we are pleased that the entire majority and the Government have given willingness to address this issue in the ways they will consider and with the appropriate technical and scientific indications. The point that has moved us to the presentation before our motion and then to the common text, which we are happy to have identified together with all the forces of majority, has precisely this meaning. These are battles that we have been carrying out within the Democratic Party, within Parliament and in Italian institutions for many years. There can be no A-series citizens and no B-series citizens. There are not only investments for the cultural heritage of the big centres as happened many years ago - I believe that the central-left governments have determined different choices - and there is the need to enhance also the territories that once were said to be peripheral and that are actually part of the great heritage of our country. There was a need - we have done this in part and we must continue to do so - for example - for investment in schools, rural centres, mountain and island areas. There is a need to invest in infrastructure. There is a need - and the pandemic has shown this - also to reconsider paradigms and decisions taken in the past, as on the reduction of the number of hospitals and health care centres. Health is the principle that is guiding us in the decisions of the last few hours and that must also teach us that perhaps in the past some choice has been wrong. Therefore, it is assumed that there are no A-class citizens and B-class citizens. And the rule that provided for some special days - and still provides for today for the next festivities - not to be able to move from the municipality, although universal in general terms, then hypothesized in the specific application a differentiation between citizens: a citizen of a very small town of one hundred, but also of a thousand inhabitants, had to remain within that territorial context, probably without services, and above all could not go to visit his parent, to a relative of first degree or to a very close person, to whom bound by an affection or other bond. We asked to analyse this situation, to verify it and remove it. We are pleased that the Government has appreciated this instance and is working on it, because certainly the citizen of that small mountain or country country country would live a very different situation than that of a citizen of a large city, in terms of movement, services and visits to friends and family. This is an important part that has been accepted within the motion, but it is certainly not the only one. We are aware of the general picture and we ask the Government all together that, on the basis of scientific evidence, authoritative guidelines and I also hope that the technical and scientific committee can work together - let me say Minister and Deputy Minister. If the data, indications and forecasts tell us that there is a real and very serious risk of a worsening of the situation, we are certainly among those who will invite the Government to take the necessary measures, taking into account - as was done for the decree of early December - that Italy is a complex, difficult country, with different territories and different regional situations. I am always surprised by some tones of opposition and center-right: I do not agree with the motion presented; I do not agree to identify only Christmas day, to highlight the provincial territory. I believe that we must all make an effort of great responsibility and understanding of the situation. We have said that the best investment, from the economic point of view and perspective for our country, is to return to a normal situation from a health point of view. Being the first to emerge from the crisis will give a boost and boost to the development, recovery and re-launching capacity of our country system. Health, health protection and the care of every single citizen are the mechanisms that will enable us, even economically, to work well and to do what we have to do. We must, however, admit, with transparency towards the citizens, that it is central to this passage, that the pandemic has forced us sometimes to change course, to change in part the decisions taken. Minister, this is probably a normal thing, facing a problem of such magnitude and size, which has never happened before and which we did not know. Therefore, the Government, Parliament and the Central State must necessarily take responsibility for the economic damage that could be created if certain decisions were to be amended, which allowed some businesses (especially in the catering, public establishments and hotels) to take a certain path, the Government, Parliament and the Central State. We cannot afford to lose the backbone of our country, which is the whole chain in its complexity of tourism, commerce and catering. I hope that all these operators will also be able to work during the Christmas holidays, but if there are no conditions, we must be aware that we must find the economic and financial resources, with the decree ristori five, to take the necessary measures and to restore sustainable economic conditions for those who want to make free enterprise, but today, given the health situation, it cannot. Minister, I should like to end by saying that the Democratic Party has made representations to Parliament and the Government and appreciates the Commission's willingness to listen to them and to intervene, if it considers them to be in a regulatory or interpretative manner on the issue of small municipalities and movements between loved ones, so that they can also meet on the particular days before us. We ask that the general framework be taken into account, together with the CTS, the Scientific Technical Committee, in order to take further measures, if necessary. We ask that these measures also have a logic linked to the territory, to the different gravity of the situation and to the different numbers throughout the national territory. We also call for a clear commitment on the backsliding, if any economic activity is further penalised by decisions that we are going to take. The health of our fellow citizens, the protection of public health and, in the future, the economic revival and the salvation of our country: these are the guidelines of the Democratic Party and that is why we are voting in favour of this motion. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u79	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u81	WORDS (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is with some embarrassment that I am speaking in an explanation of vote today. The explanation of vote is on our motion, which should, I hope in the intentions of the whole House, save this Christmas for many Italians. Actually, this year's Christmas wasn't even to be put in danger. We shouldn't be here talking about this. In addition, I feel I have to make more than a statement, a request to vote by the majority on our motion, because, after the Government's opinion, I fear that our motion, like so many of our advice and proposals, risks being archived and this is not good for our country. I am proud of the fact that we first raised the problem and tabled a united motion for a centre-right. On the one hand, I would like to say that it is good that the majority have now become aware of the problem and, from what I understand, it is already taken for granted that the limits for Christmas are exceeded. This limit already gave it to overcome, in a less brilliant way, Minister Di Maio, who realized the problem, but the answer was absolutely inadequate if, in addition to the interview that we all saw, we have to go back to the tweet he launched, saying (almost feeling): at Christmas and New Year's Day we allow citizens to move among the small municipalities. This ruling is in bad taste and I believe that we all agree that it is absolutely uncomfortable for a minister to intervene in this way and in this way. [[Applause]] I repeat that it did not take long to understand that Lombardy is not the Molise (10 million inhabitants are not 300,000) and that Rome is not the village of Val Camonica or who knows which other valley or outskirts of our country. [[Applause]] There are communities of proximity and conterminous municipalities (I say this for the motion that the majority have tabled). Even the limit of the municipalities up to 10,000 inhabitants is absolutely inadequate and does not solve the problem. Among other things, there are many parts of the country that, within 3, 4 or 5 kilometers, see the presence of 4 or 5 municipalities. This limit must be overcome with intelligence and common sense, but common sense - unfortunately - does not seem to belong to many proposals that the majority have made in this House and in the country. [[Applause]] The flaw that opens up on this issue is to speculate on many others contained in the various DCCM adopted, as well as in the four restorative decrees that were converted yesterday with a vote of confidence. Who's gonna get these? Colleagues, it is easy to say that we need less DPCM and more Parliament. [[Applause]] Everyone - and I say this to my colleagues who have made the appeal - wants to curb the pandemic, but on too many occasions, as I said, we have forgotten to use common sense. Nobody wants everyone free. But what is the point of asking some very expensive categories to take action to secure their activities, and then to close them? [[Applause]] Are we not aware of the sacrifices we have asked these fellow citizens, the employees of these activities? True, no one is sure what measures are really sufficient. And it is a confrontation - I say this to my colleague from the PD who evoked it - not between aperturists and rigorists, but, more simply, between common sense and improvisation. [[Applause]] We are witnessing a continuous improvisation. Let me also say that what happened yesterday was an example of this because, apart from the decisions taken by the Senate Presidency on inadmissibility, we voted in a single vote for four installments of refreshments. This is improvisation, it is not planning. Today we need planning, seriousness, capacity and proposals that are being made to Parliament. [[Applause]] Colleagues, it is fundamental - and this is the duty of the Government - to find a balance between prohibitions, virtuous behaviors and necessary life, because in the necessary life there are affections and relationships, which during the festivities will also be limitable, but cannot be eliminated. This is what we are dealing with today. [[Applause]] Otherwise we would also eliminate the dignity of the person, as well as his freedom. Nobody denies the precautionary principle either; but we are for freedom, which must be combined with responsibility. Colleagues, we must not ask citizens for unnecessary sacrifices and the risk is that today we continue to ask for unnecessary, not useful sacrifices; and that is not good. In the meantime, many small entrepreneurs - as you know - are putting their personal assets back into play in an effort to save their businesses. [[Applause]] Faced with this effort by so many citizens, it is not enough to speak - as you do in your motion - of proportional refreshment. I believe that, as we proposed and contained in our motion, we should instead talk about real compensation, which we set at at least 75%. If you don't intervene by supporting businesses, you don't support work. More support for businesses means more work for this country and for our citizens. [[Applause]] But today's debate in this House brings me to the need to stress one thing. Colleagues, in your motion, which is the synthesis of the three motions presented initially, what turns out to be a truly pilatesque behavior. I believe that the government was right to throw the ball at Parliament, because it is Parliament's job to make some decisions. But, colleagues, with your motion, you throw the ball back loudly and irresponsibly to the government; and that is not the case. [[Applause]] Forgive me, but that is not the centrality of this Parliament that has been so often called for in this House. That is not the centrality of this Parliament. For once we have the opportunity to decide something and give a real indication, do we give up? I can only consider this to be an absolutely inadequate sign in the face of the needs of the country at the moment. In conclusion, we need more responsibility, more common sense, less dullness, less chance and improvisation. We continue to work to give answers to Italians and in this case, today, is an answer also serenity. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u82	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u83	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u84	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately, as we are among ourselves and as there is no direct TV, we can reason even more calmly than we can normally do. Let us say a few things in total serenity and then continue to make some proposals. I have heard back from my colleague from Forza Italia, who is absolutely right. For months we have been calling for the centrality of Parliament and, for once the President-in-Office asks Parliament to decide, this Parliament does not take the responsibility to decide. Guys, this isn't gonna work. [[Applause]] Then, if one decides, he can decide well and he can decide for the best the next time; but asking them to choose others doesn't seem responsible to me from any of us. Let's start with the facts: nearly 66,000 dead. That's it. Italy is the country with the highest number of deaths in Europe. That's it. Only this should lead us to say that we work together. It is unacceptable, however, that, if something goes well - and, alas, there are not many things that went well during this period - it is thanks to those who are in government, while, if something goes wrong, it is the fault of the oppositions that are irresponsible, sovereign, fascist, anti-European and negationist. [[Applause]] Guys, when we defeat this goddamn beast, we're gonna have to go look where it all started -- let's say it in an institutional chamber. - in a Chinese laboratory funded by some multinationals without any kind of control [[Applause]] , with the World Health Organization that has slept, absent or accomplice, and I wonder why Italian citizens continue to finance an absent or complicit organization. [[Applause]] In addition, China, from where the infection started, obviously first worked on the vaccine and is now vaccinating half the world from Brazil to the African continent. The time will come when this House, I hope with responsibility and unity, will ask for damages, economic and moral, to those who have infected the rest of the world. [[Applause]] , hoping there's no one who can't do it because he has debts to someone. As for the vaccine, super-Commissioner Arcuri announced 4 million doses by January: we say so in this House today, 16 December. Since trusting is good and not trusting is better, Deputy Minister Sileri - we have seen him being tested on masks, who were not there, we have seen him being tested on the reopening of schools and we have seen how it ended, the workers of Ilva are seeing him to the test - if the vaccines come and we cannot administer them because needles and syringes are missing, we do the evil of the country. [[Applause]] Is everything under control? Is everything under control? I repeat and ask today because then it will not be our fault, since whatever happens is inexplicably the fault of the oppositions. Italy is the only country in the world where, if something does not work, it is not the fault of those who govern, but of the oppositions. You have tired with this chorus, take your responsibilities; the memory does not keep a country going. [[Applause]] I come to the question of refunds. Everyone said that. I would like to see whether, when we vote, the Members of Parliament of the Democratic Party, of the 5 Star Movement and of Italy Viva will also say no to the inclusion of a numerical criterion in refunds, because it is too easy to say: We do as the Germans do. Excuse me, but only I have seen the President-in-Office tell us at unified networks on 3 December that we were heading towards reopenings? Not only that: "Lords and gentlemen come, because in Italy we organize the lottery of receipts and those who go to a shop by December 31 win a 150 euro bonus." Then you're surprised if people go to the store to do the receipt lottery. [[Applause]] But agree with yourself: it was 13 days ago, 13 days ago and, after 13 days, the trader who spent 200 euros to update his machine, realizes that the government closes it. Let's put ourselves in the shoes of an entrepreneur or a Lombard merchant who has been closed since October for responsible choice of Lombardy Region and the Lombardy community and who last Sunday returned to the yellow area, then to smile, to breathe and to walk: now we lock him in the house from this Friday? It is simply unacceptable. [[Applause]] The center-right provides not gifts or lotteries of receipts, but a refund to the German. You tell us to do as the Germans do: we do as the Germans do in the closures, but also in the refunds - said a colleague of Italy Viva - up to 150,000 euros. At the same time, do you know how this is going to end? Today Wednesday, December 16, at 13.35, the mayors and governors do not know what the government will decide tomorrow. [[Applause]] First of all, it is not normal for people, who then have to apply a rule, not to know what happens. I'm a forerunner: tomorrow the government will say it's closing. Perfect, but then we would like, indeed we demand, in the name of, for example, those Florentine merchants, who have camped and sleep day and night in the square in Florence, that in the minute in which any new closures are announced, provisions are also given to reclaim, on the current accounts, the thousands of euros necessary for these people to survive. [[Applause]] We don't trust each other anymore! As far as school is concerned, I have never had the opportunity in this House to confront one of the protagonists of the past, present and future situation. Since mid-September - the effects on the data have been seen since early October - there has been a new surge in infection. Why did this happen? Not because someone went swimming in Sardinia or Sicily, but because the school system, which is the backbone of the country, has reopened, with 8 million students and a million teachers, without having done a "dry cool" on local public transport and crowding in classes. [[Applause]] You treated our children like guinea pigs! Now we do not want to see the same story back on 7 January, and we therefore ask that there be at least EUR 1 billion in the economic maneuver for the strengthening of local public transport. You can close all shops, hairdressers, beauticians, gyms and bookstores on a date to be destined, but if you place thousands of students in buses or subway, you will be sentenced to death in the country. [[Applause]] Take care of school, students, classes and teachers! [[Applause]] I will conclude with a reflection on Christmas. I do not think there is anyone in this House who wants sickness or death: from this point of view we are all on the same side. I hope that no one has in mind that someone, for political reasons, wishes no one's death or illness. Simply, the question that we ask the Assembly today is as follows: is there only an Italian scientific data - because what separates families on Christmas day would be an Italian data - according to which, by closing moms, dads, grandparents, relatives, friends and grandchildren on Christmas day, there will be a positive result in terms of contrast to the virus? There is not, so much so that in all the other European countries, which have the same problems as we do, we allow five, six, or at most 10 people, of two or at most three families, to be together, in a cautious, controlled and careful way, without the medieval borders, established by Commune, or pass by pass. The area of Rome amounts to about 1,300 square kilometers: you can not treat Rome like Taurianova, Pinzolo or one of the Italian villages, that do not deserve discrimination. You are discriminating against Italians and families, among Italians of series A, who live in large cities and are 20 percent, and Italians, mothers, elderly and disabled of series B, who live in our villages, our valleys and our municipalities! [[Applause]] Why? It doesn't make sense! [[Applause]] Obviously it won't be a Christmas of smiles, of abundance, of festoons, of alarms. Nobody thinks about mega-cene, but let's think about what happens in France or Germany, where they set a limit to six adults, plus children and minors, but they don't go to see if you get from 500 meters or 30 kilometers away. Explain to me what risk I run if I get in the car alone, I do 50 kilometers, change Province and I go to visit my son who lives with his mother, as a separate parent, as there are millions in Italy? What risk do I take and what risk do I take? Tell me. May it be a day of common sense; take some responsibility. Then, it is clear that many major colleagues, in these hours, rather than the measures on health, Christmas, work and family, have the head to reshuffle, verification, Secret Service. It's sad. It is sad that tomorrow there is Italy hanging from the confrontation between Count and Renzi: you are not giving this country a beautiful spectacle of politics and democracy. [[Applause]] It is not what the Italians expect at such a serious and delicate time. We leave you at your assemblies of government and under government at Palazzo Chigi, and we beg you not to steal Christmas from the families and children of this country who have already suffered enough. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u85	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u86	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u87	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are experiencing an extraordinary time, the greatest challenge since the post-war period, to defend human health. In a few months we have allocated the equivalent of three financial maneuvers. Despite the difficulties, this Parliament has continued to work on measures to protect families, businesses and workers, putting citizens' lives first. Today, in the light of the data, we can say with certainty that the path is still long. Of this enemy - which we now manage much better - we still know too little, but we know with certainty that we will have to live with it for a long time, continuing to avoid the risk that our National Health Service will collapse. A National Health Service that has been the victim of unscathed cuts for decades; a National Health Service that has only been able to carry out through the sacrifice, even physical, of our healthcare professionals. We live a different reality to which we were not ready; our lives are conditioned by forced choices. We are all tired, we miss what we were before, because for the first time we have seen limited our needs and our essential rights, those of adults and those of children. Seeing our children isolated from their friends, the elderly away from family members, the disabled without the support of the accompanying workers is heartbreaking, but we understand that isolation does not mean loneliness and that social distance is a gesture of love towards the most fragile. We are now at more than 71 million confirmed cases in the world, more than 1.5 million deaths, more than 65,000 deaths only in Italy, and many of the deceased were fragile subjects, especially elderly: the historical memory of a country, those who helped to found the world in which we live. We have, for the first time in history, made decisions in accordance with the scientific method; yet, today, in this House, we are debating whether or not to lighten the restrictions laid down by the last DCCM. Of course, we all need a little lightness; we want to see the end of this nightmare and we all want to be able to tell the citizens that the worst is over. Unfortunately, however, the data from the monitoring of infection, published by the Higher Institute of Health and taken up by the Technical and Scientific Committee, confirm the need to maintain the current restrictions. According to scientists, for the first time in the second wave, the rate of transmission of the epidemic in Italy is slowing down, and the incidence at national level is decreasing. However, this figure is accompanied by a slight increase in hospitalizations in the medical area and in the intensive care and a still too high incidence, with about 700,000 people currently positive, a mole that makes tracking impossible, even with a three times greater number of tests, Senator Zaffini. While restrictive measures have, in any case, managed to ease the pressure on hospitals and intensive therapies, the employment rate of Covid patients in departments continues to be above 40% and in intensive therapies at 30% in as many as 15 regions. This means that we are still beyond the critical threshold and we cannot fail to use caution. In addition, we have to consider that the data reported today refer to two weeks ago and if these days of reopening are increasing the cases, because the contacts and the displacements have increased, we will know only shortly. We must also bear in mind that several reports, including that of the Gimbe Foundation, warn us of the arrival of a perfect storm, caused by the advent of the winter months, the unpredictable impact of seasonal influence, the legitimate enthusiasm for the incoming vaccine, which could push us to loosen the restrictive measures and lead us to a third wave of infection. In these months we have more than doubled the seats in intensive and sub-intensive care, we have tried to guarantee every patient a treatment respectful of human dignity, thanks to the sacrifice and resilience of all our health personnel [[Applause]] However, we have not been able to alleviate the constant pressure on our hospitals, which have been weakened by decades of cuts. In these months, thanks to the discipline, patience and responsibility of Italian citizens, we have managed to keep the curve of contagions under control, we have gained time and this precious time must certainly be used to strengthen our National Health Service concretely through a more effective collaboration between State and Regions, which must implement immediately the ministerial directives to reorganize the hospital and territorial network. Senator Zaffini and Senator Salvini also spoke of a choice of wanting to abdicate, of not wanting to decide. However, we are once again making political decisions today, which must not be without scientific evidence. [[Applause]] They are suffering decisions, other than simpler ones, but necessary decisions because it is not necessary to rely on hope, but to follow the scientific method. This route that takes us out of the emergency is not a 100-meter run, but a marathon. Thanks to science in these months we have developed protocols to limit symptoms and damage from Covid, have been tested antiviral drugs and monoclonal antibodies; we are in the final stages of approval of several vaccines that will be free and available to all, an extraordinary achievement never reached before [[Applause]] To Senator Paroli, who spoke of improvisation, of uncertainty about the measures to be taken, to Senator Salvini, who still speaks of the virus created in the laboratory, of the absence of scientific evidence, I say that in these days science, through a beautiful work of metanalysis published in the magazine "Nature" has shown that, among all the non-pharmacical measures put in place by governments around the world, evaluating more than 6,000 parameters in 79 different places, using four statistical approaches, no intervention can alone bring the index of transmissibility (the so-called RT index) to less than one and the data reported in this important study say that the most effective measures to loosen and reduce the spread of the virus in the population have proved to be precisely the closures of the places where people assemble in small or large groups, therefore the places of social aggregation but also family meetings seem to be the main risk factors in this pandemic. It is for this reason that in the majority motion that the Movimento 5 Stelle supports that, in implementation of the principle of maximum precaution and the need to protect the health of citizens, the adoption of any measure both restrictively and extensively must be evaluated on the scientific evidence relating to the evolution of the epidemiological curve, guaranteeing the maximum fairness of treatment among citizens resident in municipalities of different sizes and providing, in the event of new restrictions, measures of economic refreshment and this point on the refreshments has been added in the minority motion only after reading our text. [[Applause]] I repeat that this is the moment of courageous choices and of rediscovering that sense of belonging to a community that only if united can emerge stronger than before from this tragic experience. If we are able not to give in to the temptation of encouraging numbers, then at the same time we will be able to protect health, the economy and social life by securing our health system. We must not return to pre-pandemic normality, where normality meant a country that did not devote sufficient resources to health and school, a country that is seriously delayed in digitizing and promoting environmental sensitivity, but we must build a new normality and imagine a new model of society that does not leave anyone behind and that is capable of generating good and not only of consuming well, producing things that have a value and not only a price, and we, in this House, have the responsibility to cultivate memory, even the recent one of what we are living in these months, not only in the face of the emergency, but with the most demanding task of generating the future, not to wait for it to be up to history and to be able to embody and realize the dreams and vision of this wonderful country. [[Applause.]] (at 13.52 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u88	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u89	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u90	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I agree with the words spoken during the general debate by Senator Pavanelli and Senator Castellone now in an explanation of vote, and I must admit that I have heard in this House about things that perhaps it is really better for the Government and the Ministry of Health to decide and not us. I hear words and reflections like the one that says you can't even make a little gift, which is a matter of identity, that the shopping malls close on weekends (Senator Romeo said). The fact is that we are dealing with a virus, not Christmas holidays, families, elderly people, separate fathers and mothers who can meet and have to spend Christmas together because it is a moment of identity otherwise we eliminate affections. We're talking about a virus that doesn't care if a municipality is small or large or if it's close. [[Comments.]] Excuse me, President, but this laughter of my roaring voice is truly unbearable. You're really rude when you do this. [[Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u91	Colleagues, let's stay calm, because we are talking about a serious and delicate subject.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u92	AIROLA (M5S). We are talking about 849 deaths today, a doubling which is certainly not only due to an increase in cases, but also to communication. Let's talk about moving between municipalities. Many small municipalities of my valleys are practically all infected. Promote the movement, in these days, between small municipalities, between regions... President.Senator Airola, you must tell me where you are. AIROLA (M5S). My disagreement lies in the fact that this asking for a possibility of movement and meeting in the name of a cultural identity, affective and anything else, will harm the Italians. It would have served a dry lockdown just during the holiday season. Senator Romeo was right when he said it would be better to block everything first. [[Comments]] Yeah, he's right. It was better to make a total lockdown from December 15th to January 6th, also because we gave 100 billion refreshments. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. So your vote will be...? AIROLA (M5S). My vote will be abstaining, so as not to affect the good things that are there. [[Protests.]] You guys really suck. You're very painful. I didn't interrupt you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Airola, stop. Colleagues, let's proceed with the votes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u95	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to ask for a split vote on both motions, since they deal with two very different subjects. As far as the first motion is concerned, I would ask you to vote for the first part excluding the last paragraph, starting with the words: 'in the event of new restrictions'. I also request that the majority vote be taken because the commitments deal with two different subjects and therefore we consider it appropriate that we be able to express ourselves in a different way.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u96	He then asked for the first part of the majority motion to be put to the vote separately, to the point (a) included, and then the second part, i.e. letter (b). If we all agree, we can proceed to a split vote. There is a contradiction, so let us proceed to the vote on the proposal, tabled by Senator Malan, to vote separately on the motions for our examination. Normally you vote by show of hands. However, I have to say that the vote is carried out with the electronic system, without registering the votes. It's not approved. [[Applause. Protests]] Before we proceed to the vote, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of motion 304 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini, Romeo, Ciriani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot on motion 306 (text 2), tabled by Senator Marcucci, Licheri, De Petris, Pharaoh and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). The vote will take place at 5.30 p.m. 307 and 308 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u98	Senator Airola, about what? He had finished the time at his disposal, saying he would abstain.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u99	AIROLA (M5S). The order of business. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have the right to do so. AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, in fact, I had to conclude quickly, because it was an explanation of vote in dissent, and I understand that: but I would have done it with more serenity if this House had been more disciplined on such an important issue. I call on you and the Presidency to maintain discipline with an iron fist, because it is unacceptable for them to slap, applause and cries when it comes to such an important subject. [[Comments]] , especially on my person, since I have always respected everyone's opinion in silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u100	The debate on motions has thus ended. I suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. to allow hygiene and air change. (The sitting was suspended at 2.50 p.m. and resumed at 3.30 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u101	The next item is the joint debate on documents VIII. 5 (Report of Senate revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2019) and 6 (Project of Senate internal budget for the financial year 2020). The rapporteur, Senator Pesco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were received, the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u102	Mr President, like every year, the Senate Assembly is examining acts relating to the internal budget of the institution. This time it is the report of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2019 and the draft budget for the year 2020, which was decided by the Presidency Council at its meeting on 24 November. Limiting myself to an essential examination of these two accounting documents and starting from the statement relating to the last financial year, I observe first of all how the total effective expenditure (net of the savings to be paid to the State) has turned out pairs, in 2019, to 486,342,227.17 euros in decrease of beyond 760.000 euros regarding the consuntivo data of the exercise 2018 and even of approximately 34 million euros regarding the consuntivo data of the exercise 2012. It should also be borne in mind that this reduction in expenditure, being expressed in nominal terms, does not take account of inflation and would therefore be even more marked if it were expressed in real terms. Moreover, Senate revenue shows that the financial envelope has remained unchanged since 2012 to the extent of around 505 million euros. As a result, compared to the budget requested in 2011 - amounting to €526,960,500 - there is an annual reduction of €21,6 million. Taking into account that the amount of the budget will remain unchanged also in the financial year 2020 - as can be seen from the forecast budget for the current financial year - the cumulative reduction since the beginning of the last parliamentary term amounts to as much as €172.8 million. The constant reduction in expenditure in recent years has therefore been accompanied by a substantial stability of the main entrance of the Senate, but with the latter settling at a significantly lower level than in the years before the crisis of 2011. As regards the composition of the expenditure, the operating expenditure was 55.4% of the total expenditure in 2019, compared with 44.6 of the social security expenditure, with a slight decrease compared with 2018 of the share allocated to the functioning of the institution and capital expenditure. With regard to the forecast budget for 2020, apart from the fact that the budget required for the current year has already been reduced, there is a slight change in social security expenditure of more than 1% compared to 2019. However, it should be noted that this amount also includes the amounts set aside as a result of the reductions introduced for both the vitals and the pension treatment. In particular, it is noted that the savings due to the application of the reform of the calculation of viability, approved in the course of 2018, were left in a special fund, which was established Prudently until the end of the ongoing process in the internal justice bodies. Also with regard to the application of paragraph 261 of Law No 145 of 2018, which provides for the reduction of pension treatment in excess of certain gross annual amounts, the establishment of the savings fund on pension treatment of a high amount was carried out, as established by the same law, in paragraph 265. It should also be pointed out that, in the last financial year, compulsory current expenditure represented as much as 91.18 percent of all Senate expenditures, although since 2016, there has been a slight trend towards the reduction of this aggregate, which includes savings and costs for senators and former senators, personal roles, in quiescence or extraneous to the Administration, as well as all related charges, such as tax and social security charges. There is also a slight decrease, in the three-year period 2017-2019, also in relation to current operating expenditure in the strict sense, an aggregate that consists of all the expenses incurred in providing services and support supplies to the functioning of the Senate, such as professional services for the Administration, expenses for the activity of the Commissions, costs for IT services, communication, insurance, catering, transport, rental, cleaning and others. Conversely, capital expenditure increased, which between 2017 and 2019 rose from €1,702.323 to €2,066.679,44, although in 2018 it was approximately €400,000 higher than in the 2019 financial statements. Capital expenditure, which is the least significant aggregate in absolute terms among those mentioned above, includes expenditure on the purchase of movable listed property, extraordinary maintenance costs, as well as expenditure on the purchase and conservation of the heritage of the Library and the Historical Archives. Faced with such a marked reduction in expenditure as the one recorded since 2012, the challenge, of course, has been and still is to make compatible the financial results achieved, which testify the participation of the Senate in the effort to stabilize public finance achieved in recent years, with the maintenance of a high quality standard of the services provided, all the more in a context that has seen, at least until the end of 2019, a constant reduction of the staff of role of the Administration. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He asked Senator Commissioner De Poli to intervene. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u103	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my fellow Quaestors, Mr Bottici and Mr Arrigoni, I shall present this afternoon to the House the report of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2019 and the draft internal budget for the Senate itself. In the current emergency context of the Covid-19, which is having a dramatic impact on the whole country, both health and socio-economic, I would like to stress the assessments we have made in recent months regarding the Senate itself. I am well aware that these are general health-organizational measures and work discipline which you, ladies and gentlemen, are well aware of, but which, once again, is important to reiterate. From the very beginning we have put in place a whole series of acts and indications, from a health-organizational point of view, to deal with this epidemic. From January to today we have given ourselves two important objectives, felt the services of competence and protection and the competent doctor, in particular the Director of the Health Pole, Dr. Marini, who I would like here to thank for the work that he has done all together to face the emergency Covid. [[Applause]] The two important objectives we have set ourselves are health safety (so health protection as a fundamental and priority factor) and the continuity of the legislative activity of the Senate Constitutional Body. We have adopted a whole series of general and health measures and have intervened with a number of provisions at work, especially with smart working for all our employees and collaborators. We intervened with the document on biological risks from contagion, supplementing the Risk Assessment Document (DVR), and with organisational measures. We have ensured that the legislative activity and the examination of the important emergency measures proceed with the active participation of all of us senators, ensuring compliance with all the current rules and the rules of social distancing. This was first of all the case for the House, which, as you can see, we have reorganized, using all the forums. In this regard, I would once again like to thank my colleagues, although we have stressed them many times with the reference to attention, to the use of masks and to respect for distances and voting methods, each remaining in its place. In this way, however, it has been possible to guarantee the Senate, until today, to work with continuity without having particular contagions. I believe that this is one of the fundamental aspects of the work of this House and, in the same way, of the Commissions and the Councils. Finally, in order to give a further guarantee of the development of the epidemic, the College of Quaestors considered it appropriate to request an opinion for the assessment of the risk of the transmission of micro-organisms into the air in the Legislative Chamber and in the Commissions. That is why, as you know, we have three-hour periods, with interruptions for sanitisation and the adoption of all necessary cleaning measures. I quickly come to the substance of the subject under discussion today concerning the Senate's report and draft internal budget. Before I go into the matter, I would like to make an important point. Although we were obviously not aware of the problems that would arise as a result of the health emergency, there was no imbalance on the existing budget chapters, precisely thanks to careful accounting. This means that we have not made any changes in the budget, nor have we gone over the individual chapters. This is something I would like to put to the attention of this House, because it involves an important amount of transparency. I would also like to reiterate that, as you all know, we are the only constitutional and public administration body to have a cash balance sheet (and not cash and competence). This means that it is a budget of total transparency. I'm starting from the Senate revenue and expenditure statement for the financial year 2019. Also this year we have had a further decrease, which is now the trend of recent years, reaching 486,342,217 euros. In recent years - from 2012 to 2018 - we have had a decreasing trend of 34 million euros. I believe that this is a fundamental and important aspect. We also had a reduction in Senate spending compared to that of the state, from 0.083 percent to 0.056 percent. I believe that this is an attention which, as Quaestors and as an organ of the Senate, we have always put in place to give a concrete response, among other things at a time like this year (but not only) of great economic crisis for our families. I believe that this is one of the other equally important aspects. The statement provides for the establishment of an operating surplus for the financial year 2019 of EUR 61.15 million. These are important savings, due to careful and careful management of the administrative level. The same applies to the health care budget of the senators, which - as you know - is totally paid by each of us and has had a total management surplus of EUR 2.27 million. I repeat that we pay directly for this management in order to have this aspect (I say it for the outside and for those who do not know it). Then there are a whole series of other savings that you will find in the attached tables of the 2019 statement. Let's go straight to the Senate budget. This year, too, we have had special attention. Even if this is a budget, we can already say that this year we will have at least EUR 12 million in savings. This year too, therefore, we have had the attention not to go beyond, indeed, we have continued an important trend, despite the fundamental and important work we have done, particularly with regard to digitisation and innovation, both in the Senate Legislative Chamber (due also to the Covid) and in the Commission classrooms, where we have had to make a whole series of equally fundamental and important interventions. We continue with the demand for a lower budget of EUR 21.6 million per year, which has led in recent years to a lower impact on public finance of around EUR 173 million. I believe that this is another important aspect, together with the savings made directly on each chapter of expenditure, which this year amounted to about 12 million and which in recent years have seen a trend that has led us to have 116 million savings. I believe that this is one of the equally important aspects that see a whole series of operations done, starting with the functional integrations of the Chamber and Senate administrations. We are working together on a whole series of procedures to get the best savings and the best product compared to the market; I believe that this is one of the important aspects. I would also like to remind this Assembly that all tendering procedures are managed entirely electronically through the use of an electronic trading platform provided by the Council in application service provider (ASP), in accordance with Legislative Decree No. 82 of 2005 and Legislative Decree No. 50 of 2016. I mentioned this because it is one of the most transparent aspects of the Senate. We also have a whole series of reductions in the remuneration of employees and in all social security costs, in terms of both the vitality and the former employees. We also have a number of savings on these issues, and the same applies to parliamentary allowances and ancillary competences, with a further reduction that I would like to mention: from 2001 to 2020, we have gone from about 19 to 10%, virtually halving the costs of the allowances themselves. The Senate of the Republic - perhaps this is a strange thing in the eyes of the citizens and of each of us - manages to have an interesting aspect of good administration. It's one of many, but I want to quote it: we can pay our suppliers' bills within 26 days. I believe that we are below all European averages, in a positive sense; we pay in virtually a few days. It is a figure of 2019, but, having entered us through the electronic mandate, in 2020 we have further shortened the times, attesting to us on twenty-one or twenty-two days for payment. I believe that, at this time of great difficulty for our companies and our families, this immediate possibility is a very positive and important aspect. Good administration is not only made by numbers, but also by people and our entire administration in its general context. The aspect of human resources is therefore fundamental. As you know, we're heavily on staff. Two competitions were banned for assistants and coadjutors, but unfortunately we had to suspend them because of the emergency Covid-19. I believe that this is one of the issues that we will have to take up strongly in 2021, in order to give all our offices and the administration itself the opportunity to work in the best way and efficiently. I would like to address at this point an issue that many of our colleagues, on the one hand and on the other side of the House, have urged us, namely that of parliamentary collaborators. We have started a discussion table with our colleagues in the House of Deputies on the status of parliamentary collaborators, with a view to finding a shared solution on this issue. The issue is well known and important. It should be pointed out, however, that there are differences between the two branches of Parliament. In the Senate, already since the last legislature, we ask for a copy of the employment contract and the communication to be sent to the competent territorial offices of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Each senator can then ask for credit to the Senate of the Republic exclusively for the collaborators with whom he has established a working relationship of not less than six months, for consideration, giving to the Police Department and the ceremonial copy of the communication of the contract. With a resolution that was made at the time, in the regulation of the figure of parliamentary collaborators was defined a minimum performance of twenty-five monthly hours, equal to 375 euros. However, if this increases to forty hours a week, the monthly fee is about 2,400 euros. If the hours are thirty-six, it goes down to 2,160 instead. I am clearly talking about minimum wages, not maximum wages. This is the starting point. If we compare them to the salaries of the European Parliament, which stands at around forty-one hours a week, we see that they amount to about EUR 2,345 per month, thus remaining slightly lower. In the Senate, those who have not deposited the contract cannot enter, they have a minimum of twenty-five monthly hours and they have not communicated the communication to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This is to encourage the affirmation of a path of transparency that the Senate also wants to do with our collaborators. As I said before, however, I repeat the importance of a discussion table with the other branch of Parliament, precisely in order to define shared solutions and thus identify a concrete response to the issue of parliamentary collaborators. That is precisely what we will do, given that with the reduction of Members of Parliament in the two branches of Parliament in the next parliamentary term it is increasingly important to cooperate with those who are close to us. That is precisely why I should like to ask Mr De Falco, on behalf of my colleagues Mr Arrigoni and Mr Bottici, to withdraw the three agendas he has tabled, if he considers that our commitment can be valid. Going further, we've done a whole series of green policies within the Senate. We are working on energy efficiency and redevelopment of the areas adjacent to the buildings. A plan for overcoming architectural barriers is being put in place. Mr Arrigoni is following these last points directly, while Mrs Bottici is following directly the measures aimed at achieving an increasingly digital way for the computerized presentation of parliamentary acts, such as the amendments, including by electronic signature, by both the parliamentary groups and all the senators. So let's inform and go beyond using the fine paper in itself. Although we have achieved a 75% reduction in paper copies in recent years, we want to go further. There will also be a series of computer interventions, concerning the Tabulas app for the work and the Senato Media app and the website is being redesigned. As we proceed at the highest speed, I would like to mention the technological and IT modernization of all the Commissions' classrooms, the Senate's web TV and a whole series of other interventions, which have been carried out precisely to give our colleagues the best opportunity to work. Certainly there is always so much to do and I think it is important to highlight it, but, even in a moment of great difficulty, I think we have managed to overcome so many problems. I begin with the conclusion, with due thanks and heartfelt thanks, on my part, of Senator Bottici and Senator Arrigoni, therefore by the College of Senators Quaestors: they are not thanks for practices, but they are true. We therefore thank all the staff of the Senate, who really is the heart of this machine [[Applause]] , from the Secretary General, Dr. Serafin, from the Deputy Secretaries General, Dr. Toniato and Dr. Sandomenico, from the Directors of Services, from all collaborators, from all staff [[Applause]] , by the women and men of the State Police and the Carabinieri Army, who are here and guarantee the safety of our Palaces. [[Applause]] However, I would like to pay particular attention to our collaborators, let us call them, who so often take part with us, in order to give the opportunity to continue the work in this House, which we find at the entrances and in the various parts of the Senate, namely our parliamentary assistants. [[Applause]] , always attentive to their work and to help us in what happens. I have also mentioned this before, but I would like to end by thanking Dr Marini and the President of the Senate, who presides over the Assembly, not only today, but always today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u104	I inform you that the agendas of the G1, G2 and G3 have been presented, signed by Senator De Falco. I therefore ask the proposer whether he agrees to withdraw these agendas, as requested by Senator Commissioner De Poli.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u105	Mr President, I take note of the invitation of the Quaestors and withdraw the agendas, with the hope that a path will actually be set in motion, which will lead to greater transparency, which is required of us by the population, on the contracts of our collaborators, who, unfortunately, are often and gladly the subject of distortions and irregularities. I am very pleased that we are starting a joint table with the House of Deputies and that we can, hopefully shortly, make these contracts public, so that no one can doubt the seriousness of the Italian Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u106	We shall now proceed to the vote on the documents.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u107	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u109	GINETTI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I will speak very briefly to vote in favour of the two measures, both on the accounts of the Senate's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2019 and on the budget for the financial year 2020. I would also like to thank both the College of Quaestors and all the staff for their work, and also to take into account the process, the road taken for some years already for the rationalization of the Senate's expenditures, but above all the quality of the same, in compliance with the principle certainly of economicity, but also of efficiency. Ours is, in fact, an institution that needs to work best for the competences that are assigned to us. I am thinking, for example, of the importance of unlocking the turnover and starting a new recruitment process, even though competitions are currently suspended for the health emergency. Starting from the revenue statement, I would like to point out that, compared with an unchanged budget of around EUR 505 million, actual expenditure amounts to EUR 486,342 million, a slight decrease compared to 2018. The part relating to expenditure - divided, among other things, between operating expenses in the strict sense and social security expenditure - also shows an important saving, as well as with respect to compulsory current expenditure which - let us remember - covers 91 percent of all the expenses of the Senate and is divided into expenditures for senators and former senators, parliamentary groups, but also personnel employed in service and in quiescence, as well as the social security and tax charges charged by the administration. We are talking about an important saving, since in the 2018 budget we had recorded 441,985 million euros and in the 2019 budget, instead, we note the expenditure at 413 million euros. A significant saving, therefore, as well as with regard to expenses for services and supplies. I would like to recall the main capital expenditures that have already been highlighted in part by the Commissioner De Poli, the expenses we have incurred for the redevelopment of the palaces of the Senate, such as, for example, for Palazzo Madama, the new video system of the Chamber and the renovation of the 2nd Chamber. Commission to the mezzanine plan; therefore, important extraordinary maintenance costs. A path that continues with the forecast budget for the year 2020, drawn up according to the general accounting rules, but also the internal rules proper to the Senate, which highlights and confirms the goal of saving expenditure at over 700,000 euros compared to the same figure of 2018. A saving that, in eight years - I would like to stress this - therefore since 2013, stands at 288 million euros; therefore, a reduction in the financial weight of the Senate on public finance, with a current impact of 0.056 percent on total state expenditure. Two notes on the reserve funds: one mandatory, that of Law No 145 of 2018, for the reduction of pension treatment in excess of certain amounts, that therefore goes to constitute a specific savings fund; the other concerning the expenses of a social security nature, in application of the reform of 2018 for the reduction of the vitalities: a fund established in a prudential-precautional way, waiting for the process internal to the judicial bodies to end. This also seems to me to be an intelligent choice in financial management. As we said before, there has been an important reduction in the total amount of the wage bill, which has been considerably reduced in eight years since 2012, by a minus 22 percent. Finally, I would like to add that, in addition to the principles of cost-effectiveness and quality of expenditure, we must also stress the commitment to greater transparency in financial management, until the publication of the accounts concerning the parliamentary groups not only on the site, but also in the annex to the measures under consideration. It seems to me that this choice should also be highlighted. I would like to make just one observation, that is, as soon as possible, thanks to the unblocking of the turnover, to provide our staff offices in an adequate and sufficient way to guarantee a linear activity for the exercise of the functions that are assigned to us and therefore to give the utmost authority to the tasks that this Senate is called to carry out. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u110	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u111	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u112	LAFORGIA (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I too should like to thank the College of Quaestors and the Presidency. Let me say that I think it is right to give thanks not rhetorical but felt to those who, like Dr. Marini, have had and still have the responsibility to lead the health care of this institution [[Applause]] , but also the far-sightedness of putting in place a prevention mechanism with the aim of securing the parliamentarians and their collaborators, but above all all all those who these Palazzi attend them, live and live them daily, even when it seemed that a certain suggestion in relation to the protection systems was almost shamanism, as if that pandemic that then at some point hit us disastrously was not at the door, as then happened. We must acknowledge this fact of foresight to Dr Marini, of course in a very close relationship with the Presidency Council and the College of Quaestors who had the ability to implement these suggestions. Thanks also go to the work done in relation to the statement and the forecast budget. Of course, we will vote in favour of both documents. Here too, I believe that the emphasis on savings is not merely rhetoric, but is part of an important work which has been done and which, in my opinion, has not been driven by ideological fury. I mean to say that my perception, even in direct view as a member of the Presidency Council, is that of a work done on the basis of a basic objective that is the functionality of the system and not simply the cut with "acceptance" to be spent politically. I believe that this is an important objective which must be appreciated at a time when, obviously, even in the relationship with public opinion, it is never easy to do such operations, because one never knows what line one can or cannot overcome in relation to the expectations that are created in the citizens who rightly look at us on land of this kind. Mine is therefore a heartfelt thank you. I should like to close my speech with an emphasis which is close to my heart and which I believe should be dear to all my colleagues. I am very pleased with this assumption, in the report by Senator De Poli, of an important topic such as the classification of parliamentary collaborators in terms of their profession and professionalism. I feel very much in tune with the content of the agenda we were talking about, then of course each of us was struggling with the possibility of depositing them and did not do so precisely because the basic orientation is to build a passage in the name of a compactness that did not neglect this theme. I say this because I consider it a responsibility that we must fully exercise, so the connecting table with the House is fine, the commitments made are fine. We must take responsibility for tying up some of the arguments that are often echoed in this House, and which are also the subject of a translation into the legislative initiative that we often exercise, with the behaviors that we then put in place and with the consistency of those behaviors. Often, in fact, we talk about the dignity of work, how - all the more in the phase we are living - we must attack the theme of the precariousness of work and who lives this precariousness daily, so consistency would want this reasoning to be linked, in the specific case of parliamentary collaborators, to a direct commitment to a professional framework. There are some models that we must not invent - I am thinking of the European model, first of all as that model to which the European Parliament refers - that can be implemented with great simplicity, in the sign of transparency, respect and dignity of those who work with us and I think it is a way of redeeming us from this image, from this shirt that often make us wear, from this stigma that we carry as a caste that has an interest in opacizing any reasoning. We can make a further contribution to getting out of this opaque shadow precisely by doing a positive operation for parliamentary collaborators but also for us, in the sense of making our activity even more effective, more functional and above all more willing to build a link between what we do and the real life of people. I would therefore like to thank once again the College of Quaestors, of course the President who is currently chairing this House, the Presidency Council and all my colleagues. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u113	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u115	COLLINA (PD). Mr President, I believe that the report that has been drawn up by the Quaestors Senators makes good the path that has been made over the past few years with a view to a progressive and constant rationalization. The results that have been presented to us demonstrate the continuous and progressive path that has been made in recent years, which has gone in the direction of rationalising many costs and of making this institution more modern. I will not repeat them, but an opportunity like this can also be useful for us to make some reasoning that goes towards the future. If while the constitutionalists and also many of us were wondering about the distance voting here we worked and continued to perform the fundamental functions for the country and for its democracy I believe it was thanks to the organizational capacity of the Senate, all its employees, the executive officials and the College of Quaestors, who organized the work and of this we must acknowledge. [[Applause]] The debate is still under way on the issue of distance voting, and so this is an element of modernisation of the institutions that we have to deal with, but in the meantime we are here and I believe that this is something that needs to be emphasized. The speech that Senator De Poli made is important, it was a decisive summary: this was a complicated and complex year, in which all the measures that were put in place to allow us to work in safety were prepared very quickly, but with professional skills and with health security guaranteed by the staff of Dr Marini, through a set of decisions that from the secretary general, Dr. Serafin, to the deputy secretaries Toniato and Sandomenico, and of course to the Council of Presidency, have given important results from the point of view of effectiveness. We have a future ahead of us, which is now on its way, which involves a reduction in the number of Members of Parliament. Now, if we imagine that the trend we have set in the Senate over the past few years for budget management is not influenced by this constitutional change, I think we would make a resounding mistake. The Senate budget, in fact, is closely linked to the organizational choices that we consider to be adequate and necessary in order to redefine the institution with respect to the new numbers and the new necessities. It is therefore a subject of modernisation, digitisation, but also of organizing the work of senators and political groups. It is a work that started with the revision of the Regulations and that must be linked to a new structure of the budget according to the key elements and the decisive criteria that we believe in the future must be safeguarded in order to ensure democratic representation in our country within this institution. They will be fewer people, but their ability to work and to represent the territory from which they come must be intact, indeed, it must be strengthened and supported to a greater extent precisely because there will be a different distribution of the workloads and responsibilities that they will have to take charge of. This is a year of change, of design, of programming both from the point of view of the Regulations and from the point of view of the budget. The issue of parliamentary assistants is central to this criterion. The issue is not just about the type of contract and pay, but about the function they will have and how they will fit into the way the new Senate will work in the coming years. I believe that first of all we must define the strategies and then the organisation must be able to accompany them effectively. We also have another historical possibility. The reform is about House and Senate. The need to intervene on the Regulations and the organization is not only ours, it is also from the other House, so we have an opportunity of coordination even more than what has been attempted in the past years. I think I can stop. I just want to acknowledge the fact that in the everyday life of the Senate we see the ability of the Institution and all its offices to carry out with progressivity the renovation work, the work of technological modernization, of overcoming the barriers, of energy efficiency, with the attention to sustainability that this Institution has put on the field in the management of the waste cycle within the Palaces. There are other issues to deal with, for example, with distance work because a share of the work we do can be developed - and we have seen it in these months - through this mode, but there is also a cybersecurity theme that I would not underestimate with respect to our function and the function of the Senate that must be transparent, but not vulnerable. It seemed to me appropriate to propose these issues on this occasion. I thank you all again for the work you have done. Of course, our vote will be in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u116	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u117	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u118	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, the image of the Senate that emerged from the description of this budget is extremely virtuous in so many respects, which I would like to list a little quickly. The first is that among the three quaestor senators, who represent different souls of the Senate, it seems that there is a great closeness, a great capacity for collaboration, beyond ideological splits or prevarication. This is therefore proof that we can work together and that cooperation is also possible in the diversity of political backgrounds. Another positive image that comes out of the description that has been made is that of a Senate that, in the face of a social emergency like the one we are experiencing, in front of a level of general impoverishment of the country, was able to save and do it on all the items of the budget: it has saved on the quotas of the staff, on the quotas of the transfer to the senators of their parliamentary competences and, overall, in the management of the services. It is therefore a Senate aware of its corporate social responsibility, let us call it that. The other aspect that came out with great attention is sensitivity to the advanced technological dimension of the Senate, and many are the examples that can be made in this case and that have also been made. I would like to stress that this is a Senate capable of thinking technologically and translating the possibilities that science and technology offer to us in operational solutions that are immediately effective for everyone. Mr Collina mentioned earlier also the possibility of working in smart working, the possibility of voting even at a distance through tablets, the possibility that we have all experienced in this period of organizing webinars of the highest technological profile, with a quality of image and audio and a security in the connections that really envy compared to similar situations that we have experienced. It is a Senate capable of thinking also in strong terms of prevention and health protection. All of us were able to make all the swabs we wanted: every time the doubt insinuated in some of us that we could be exposed to the contagion, we could go knocking on the door of the already multicited Dr. Marini and we not only found always listening, but also solutions that arrived before, more and better. I am also thinking of the operation of vaccinations: all of us who wanted to immunize themselves from the flu virus, were able to do so and found no resistance of any kind. Now I wonder: a senate so virtuous because hell at other moments of his life must be crossed to the right or left by other structures? Why must it be emptied of meaning in its deepest function, the one that defines precisely the core of the Senate, which is, for example, its regulatory and prevention capacity? If I think of the chaos of last night, through the famous decrees-restorations, I think that if the Senate could have worked, it would have worked with this sense of economy, with this sense of efficiency, with this sense of interest for the common good, with this capacity for collaboration and with the ability to bring home results. So I thank the Senate management done in this way by our Quaestors, along with of course all the other resources present. Thank you very much because this gives us confidence in the institution in which we spend most of our day, and allows us to hope that there may be a better time, when talents and abilities can find their opportunities to express themselves properly. I must say that thanks cannot end here. I participated several times this year in the monthly Saturday meetings promoted by the President of the Senate, Senator Elisabetta Alberti Casellati. The Senate is culture and in these open meetings we Romans, I must tell the truth, we are lucky enough to invite people to participate to enjoy the cultural depth of what is the Senate, so that they understand the beauty of music in this Hall; they realize the beauty of the Hall, but also its acoustic possibilities. Which gives the idea of being in an institution of the highest cultural profile. We also enjoyed - why not? - absolute cooperation between the staff, all the parliamentary advisers and the staff present in this House and outside. We can say, if you want a little'smiling, that there has never been a mask missing from any of us because, before entering the Chamber, there is always someone who offers us a mask to protect us and others with the mediation of the amiability and kindness of the staff, which is really the figure and style of the Senate. Of course, all this is very beautiful and fills the heart with hope: the highest institutions of the State are able to guarantee quality of service from the human, scientific, technical and cultural point of view. What worries us in this context? That was also said by the Members who spoke earlier. For example, we are concerned about the staff who, on the other hand, surround the Senate in conditions of greater fragility. I am thinking objectively of our parliamentary collaborators, and I am not just referring to the economic dimension, because it seems that all of this must be translated into a contractual nature to which this or that figure corresponds. I am referring to the professional investment that people in this role can have in relation to their lives. What can he do after a parliamentary collaborator if he does not set up a figure with a profile that allows him to spend it not only on curricula, but also, in turn, on continuity in work in a context of fragility? I also think of another kind of staff, of our groups. When we return from Christmas holidays, it will be three years, 60% of the legislature. We will find in front of a smaller part and we know that it preludes to a kind of bottleneck, a funnel because, if we are 321 now, in a couple of years there will be only 200 senators. What will become of the staff of our offices, of their skills acquired, of the style of work and of the rigour that has done and makes the supporting structure of the work not only of the Groups, but also through them of the entire Senate? Here, I would like to see the idea of bridge solutions from this legislature that create that inclined plan so that we do not have to start all over again. If God wills, this legislature will last two more years, but we do not know: someone wishes it, while someone wants a change. What happens next? What kind of professional expectations in terms of safety, guarantee of competence, but also in terms of the protection of acquired skills? Let us not forget that the real investment that the Senate makes is in acquiring new skills every time. In a sense, it works as a learning organization, in which, from time to time, new skills are acquired. For example, all the accelerated digitisation of recent months has been personal, but also institutional, enrichment. I can only say thank you to the staff, to the Secretary-General, to Dr Serafin, to Dr Toniato, to Dr Sandomenico, who in the Chamber and from the Chamber help us and assist us in many ways and on many occasions. Thanks I say this a thousand times, but, as a colleague, I say it in a special way to Dr. Marini, who has taken care of the health of each of us always and in any event. [[Applause]] From this point of view, we would really like the Senate to be a school and a model of institution that guarantees objectives, transmits culture and, despite everything, is an oasis of peace in which one can work well, serenely and constructively, which does not always happen. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u119	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u121	TOSATO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on behalf of the League, of course, I too am voting in favour of both the revenue and expenditure statement for the financial year 2019 and the Senate's draft internal budget for the year 2020. The only point I would like to make - and I do so now - is that perhaps we can improve, at least from a point of view, and try to reach the approval of the budget not at the end of the year, but at least in the first six months, as all local authorities in particular do. I believe that this is one of the few goals on which we can still work to improve. I know that the College of Quaestors approved the budget, if I am not mistaken, in mid-June (it will confirm or disprove the Commissioner De Poli in his reply), but the Presidency Council of which I am a member has only dealt with it in the last few weeks. Let us try, where possible, to improve from this point of view. It is obvious that the assessment of a public budget using public resources, the result of taxes and the work of citizens, follows as a parameter that of the appropriate use of the resources made available, without waste and with efficiency, and as a basis on which to express the quality of the expenditure. We have appreciated the fact that there are savings this year too, of course as far as the accounts are concerned. It is a path that began from afar in 2013; often Senator De Poli cites almost 300 million savings from 2013 to today. It is obvious that in the initial phase, in 2013, the margin for saving was high, because it was more marked. As savings are made on what has already been cut, it becomes increasingly difficult and challenging, but we hope that this path will not be interrupted, but that every year there will be an effort on the part of the Senate to improve these performances. [[Applause]] Beyond the savings of a year, it must also be said, honestly, that the senators in this parliamentary term have approved very significant measures in this direction, whose fruits will obviously not be seen in the immediate future, but in the coming years: I am of course referring to the revision of the vitality regime, which has been approved by the current Presidency Council by a majority of the members, with an assumption of important responsibility. We do not see the result of this decision in the immediate future, but in the future, if the judgments are in favour, as we expect and we are convinced that they will be, we will see considerable savings for a more balanced and fairer system of vitality. That was the goal, without penalising anyone. The other great measure that has been approved by all the senators, I believe by all the groups, is the reform of the reduction in the number of parliamentarians, which in absolute terms for the budgets of the State represent a small thing, an intervention that will certainly not lift the fate of the country and will not have a significant impact on the reduction of public expenditure, but it was a matter of principle to which we all associated in a time of difficulty, which unfortunately has become even greater because of the emergency Covid. Everyone has to play their part; we could have an impact in this direction and we took responsibility for it. Our task will be to ensure that, in the face of this reduction in the representation of citizens, therefore parliamentary, the Senate and the House can still function properly and in a better way than in the past. We have appreciated the continued investment in the removal of architectural barriers, digital investment and IT infrastructure. From this point of view, the investments that have been made in the past have obviously been far-sighted, because they have allowed, at this particular stage of the need to distance, that the performance of the activity, especially of the Commissions, was adequately guaranteed and without the emergency posed problems or impediments. I am also referring to the issue, which perhaps has not been touched on by my colleagues, of recruitment competitions, the process of which has obviously been slowed down because of the Covid-19 emergency. We hope that they can come to an end as soon as possible. We are not talking about hiring more staff than is necessary, but simply integrating, only partially, the organic plant and, therefore, a just turnover, which is indispensable. Let us hope, therefore, that its path will be completed as soon as possible. I too wish to end my speech with thanks, which is practical, but I believe it is right, for the College of Quaestors. This year, this thanks certainly is linked not only to the functions that this body has always carried out in the past years, but to an emergency, which has certainly involved all of us, but they, perhaps, more than others. We thank, therefore, its members for having guaranteed, for what was in their competence, the functionality of the Senate institution of the Republic, the safety and guarantee of the health of all of us and especially of the employees who, together with us, have never left this Palace, even during the lockdown. Let's thank, of all people, Dr. Marini. Others have already done so, but we too, as a Group, feel the need to do so, because it was a safe guide, which gave serenity to everyone, with great professionalism and commitment. [[Applause]] Of course, we also thank the structure and all its employees, starting with the parliamentary assistants, and the Secretary-General, Elisabetta Serafin, and all its collaborators, who, like all of us, have never left this House and have always ensured, with their professionalism, that the work takes place to the best of our possibilities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u122	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u123	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u124	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to speak today with a premise and a wish. The premise concerns the way in which the Senate's internal budget is approved and is based on an anomaly if we want to call it that. Pursuant to Rule 165 of the Rules of Procedure, the draft budget and the final account of the Senate's revenue and expenditure are prepared by the quaestors senators and decided by the Presidency Council, and then forwarded to the President of the 5th standing Commission and finally submitted to the vote of the Assembly: it is today's vote. The draft to which Article 165 refers, which we are voting on today, relates to a forecast budget, as indicated, moreover, in the document drawn up annually by the quaestors senators. By definition it is a draft budget and refers to the financial year following that in which it is drawn up and approved. However, the strange practice, which has been established in recent years here in the Senate, goes in the diametrically opposite direction, because the draft budget for 2020 is what we approve today, in mid-December, when only two weeks are left until the end of the year. The same thing has happened in the last two years: the budget for the current accounting year has always been approved at the end of the accounting year and not at the end of the previous year. I shall conclude this premise in the hope that the 2021 budget will be implemented within the first quarter or half of next year, so that each Senator and the Assembly as a whole can exercise the powers of direction with regard to expenditure planning. He is pleased that Senator Tosato is also of the same opinion. After this premise, we must take up the thread of a speech that was launched in this House last year. On the part of our colleagues Senators Quaestors, there has been a formal commitment to address the issue of the regulation of our collaborators. Elder Senator De Poli stated in this House that the College of Quaestors would suggest in the Presidency Council that it should consider identifying specific contractual types and methods of payment for parliamentary collaborators, in order to guarantee them a proportional and adequate remuneration for the work done, in the same way as the House of Deputies' commitment, with a view to finding a single solution. I should like to add that he has also said so a little while ago, in an even more detailed way. So, the theme is being taken care of. I understand that in this year of pandemic crisis, in which the Senate administration has also had a lot to do, it has been difficult to work on multiple tables, but I believe that this issue should be put on the agenda of the Presidency Council as soon as possible. Recognizing the figure of the parliamentary collaborator and better regulating the working relationship with his senator is a duty that can no longer be postponed. With the historic reform of the reduction in the number of Members, which we strongly want, we now have the issue of regulating, together with the necessary legislative and regulatory changes resulting from the constitutional reform, the function that is carried out daily by our collaborators. Staff prepared and paid with fairness and transparency will be even more necessary with the increase of work for each individual senator, inevitable since the number of Commissions and commitments will remain unchanged. I am aware of the presentation of some draft legislation to be supported on this subject, but it can only be resolved by a vote in the Presidency Council. The Presidency Council is the administrative summit of the Senate and must address the problems and resolve the issues that have been outstanding for some time; it cannot afford to become the place where uncomfortable issues or which do not economically agree with some political parties never mature. Colleagues, we talk daily about the problems of workers' rights. We cannot allow this situation to remain unresolved in the home of all Italians, where often those who assist the parliamentarians are underpaid or paid with inadequate contractual forms. I shall conclude with the hope - but I am sure that this will be the case - that the College of Quaestors will work in practice on this issue, in parallel with that of the work of the competent Commissions on the draft law, in order to arrive by the end of the legislature at a regulation finally more transparent in the relationship between parliamentarians and collaborators. Dear Senators Quaestors, my speech must not leave the time it finds. It would not be acceptable to see another twelve months of inertia in order to find ourselves, in December 2021, having to put in place a pull and spring even if only for the presentation of a simple agenda to the internal budget. In conclusion, today I have the pleasure of expressing the position of the Movimento 5 Stars on the vote of the Senate's draft internal budget, which will certainly be in favour. Good work has been done on optimising available economic resources. I can only welcome the start of the competition procedures for the renewal of staff present in the internal offices, a new sap for the very soul of the Senate, an indispensable staff for the proper functioning of the institutions. Thanks again for the work that I hope will become excellent next year as a good guy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u125	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's statement of revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2019 (Doc. VIII, No 5. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the Senate's draft internal budget for the financial year 2020 (Doc. VIII, No 6). (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u126	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u127	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u128	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, during the debate on the approval of the Senate's internal budget, I saw not all of us very careful and a certain distraction from the speeches. Do we all want to applaud the President of the Senate, the Vice Presidents, the members of the Bureau, the Quaestors, the Secretary-General, the Deputy Secretaries, all the officials, the assistants and Dr Marini for all the support they constantly give us? Thank you. That's all. [[Live, prolonged applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u129	Thank you, Senator Romeo. I too would like to thank the Presidency and the Vice-Presidents of this House today, as well as our colleagues. And I would like to extend it from the Presidency to the Heads of Groups for the cooperation they provide for the success of the work of this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u130	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u131	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u132	Ferrero (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking today because I read some news the other day that has left me somewhat perplexed. Do you remember that rule inserted in the decree relaunching, in Article 180, entitled "Restaurant to the Municipalities for the reduction of the revenue of the residence tax and other provisions in this matter"? Already at the time - and it was mid-July - I had brought to the attention of this House what some newspapers had branded as "decree raises father-in-law." Article 180, behind a section of worthwhile intent, concealed from paragraphs 3 and 4 other provisions, which provided for a decriminalization of the offence of sin for those who, owners of accommodation facilities such as hotels and hotels, had collected the tourist tax from the customers and had not paid it to the municipality of belonging. It is now known to all that, precisely thanks to this rule, Mr. Paladino, whose relations with the Count lawyer are well known, sentenced to a year and two months of imprisonment precisely because guilty of not having paid the tax of stay to the Municipality of Rome in the space of time between 2014 and 2018 - these are words that I have detected from the newspapers - had the revocation of the sentence. Well, yesterday's news headlined: "The Congressman Michele Anzaldi of Italy Viva has a parliamentary question ready. Where does the norm come from?". But that Member should be aware that he has voted in favour of that article, giving confidence to this Government in due course. And if only today you wonder where that rule came from, I can answer him, who perhaps was more careful than he was at parliamentary work. It comes from an amendment "marchetta" - as is said in the jargon - amendment 87.10, tabled by Movimento 5 Stars in the last budget law, when the Covid was not there; an amendment, already marked in its time by the newspapers with the sanatoria on the crimes of Count's father-in-law, who at the time had remained dead letter, among the unreported. I thought this had happened out of modesty, and it probably was. The most shameful thing, however, of which the "giornaloni" too busy to adulate have not given news, is that that norm has appeared in the I raise decree, without having anything to do with the emergency Covid. Using this emergency, the norm has been hidden, not even so well, among the folds of an emergency measure. At the time I was outraged and still am; if other colleagues wanted to join the indignation, perhaps they could avoid giving their trust to characters who do not deserve it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u133	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u134	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u135	MAUTON (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my speech is aimed at highlighting the seriousness of an episode of urban violence in Acerra, a municipality in the province of Naples. In this town the population already lives daily on its own skin the economic difficulties, the social degradation and the negative consequences of a territory tormented by a high rate of environmental pollution and a high risk to health, linked both to the constant and widespread presence of toxic fires of the so-called land of fires, and to the location in its territory of the heater and its possible harmful effects. Well, in the night between December 12 and 13, two municipal police cars were burned down in Acerra. Investigators are still investigating the possible causes of what has happened. However, the absolute gravity of the episode remains, where it was confirmed the arsonous nature; it could be a gesture of a madman, a vengeance, a retaliation or, worse still, an intimidating act or, finally, the idiocy of someone who could see in the control action carried out by the local police, even more careful during this pandemic, a limitation of their freedoms, not wanting to consider that these restrictions are right and indispensable to try to limit the spread of the Covid-19. Citizens are outraged and frightened. The episode, whatever the cause, represents a clear sign of the degradation and the great environmental difficulties and of the social life that unfortunately unites many cities of our country. I am confident of the work and action of the judiciary for a rapid conclusion of the investigations that ensure to justice the responsible or those responsible for this insane gesture, also to give the community a clear signal of the presence and constant action on the territory of the institutions. The state is there. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u136	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u137	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u138	PUGLIA (M5S). Mr President, I am here to call for the answer to Question 4-03857, which concerns the supplementary pension fund for Italian journalists, the so-called Journalist Fund. The administrative bodies are characterised by an equal composition, i.e. by the same number of representatives of workers and employers; a dialogue between the parties, which is fundamental in these cases. We learn from a press report that on 23 June 2020 the Board of Directors of the Journalists' Fund entrusted the position of Director-General to a person who held the position of adviser at the time of the vote for his own appointment. His own vote was therefore decisive. It is a choice that in fact jeopardises the dialogue between the parties - I repeat - fundamental in these cases, in such an important garrison for the welfare of Italian journalists. Point 3 (e) of the Selection Notice for the post of Director-General of the Journalists' Fund, among the conditions necessary to participate in the selection, provides for the absence of situations of conflict of interest, including potential. This provision is intended to ensure the independence and third-party status of the person intended to be the Director-General of the Fund. It is enough to think that, as a reason for incompatibility, there may also be only a potential situation of conflict of interest. Therefore, I address this request and I think it is appropriate for the Ministry to look into the matter. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u139	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-16-LEG18-Senato-sed-283.ana.u140	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday, December 17, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.27 p.m.
