ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on document IV-a, No 3, which contains: Report of the Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the application for authorization to proceed in court, pursuant to Article 96 of the Constitution, against Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister of the Interior pro tempore, for the offences referred to in Articles 81, paragraph 1, and 605, first paragraphs, second, number 2, and third, of the penal code (sequestration of aggravated person); 81, paragraph 2, and 328, paragraph 1, of the penal code (refuse of office documents. Omission), transmitted by the Public Prosecutor's Office to the Tribunal of Palermo on 31 January 2020. The report has been printed and distributed. The Junta of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities has decided, by a majority, to propose to the Assembly the refusal of the request for authorization to proceed in court against Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister of the Interior protempore, waiting for the subsistence in the case of the case of the exigency of the pursuit of the pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government referred to in Article 9, paragraph 3, of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Gasparri, whether he intends to supplement the written report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u5	Mr President, the proposal not to authorise the trial, as you mentioned, was adopted by a majority of the Council. Coming to the facts, with communication of November 2019 the attorney of the Republic of Palermo, on the basis of the information acquired from the attorney of the Republic of Agrigento, has asked the college for ministerial crimes at the court of Palermo to carry out investigations against Senator Matteo Salvini, then Minister of the Interior, in relation to various hypotheses of crime inherent to events happened in August 2019, concerning immigrants of various nationalities arrived near the coasts of Lampedusa in the night between 14 and 15 August 2019 on board the ship Open Arms. On 1 August 2019, following information received by e-mail, the ship Open Arms, flying the Spanish flag, chartered by the non-governmental organization Proactiva Open Arms, carried out, in a rescue area of Libyan competence, the rescue of 55 people who were on board a boat, giving news to the Libyan, Italian and Maltese authorities. On the same date, on 1 August, the then Minister of the Interior, in agreement - I emphasize - with the Ministers of the defense and of the infrastructures and the transports, issued a decree, placing the prohibition of entry, transit and stop in the national territorial sea, therefore with an act of collegial Government that has involved several Ministers. On 2 August the same ship carried out a further rescue of 69 persons in the Maltese area of competence. The various authorities were informed of these events and Malta challenged its competence (which, as is well known, often does even when it is obvious). After submitting to the Maltese and Italian authorities various requests for POS (Place of safety) - let's talk about the possibility of landing - the ship was maintained in international waters south-west of Lampedusa. On 9 August 2019, Open Arms carried out, with the coordination of the Maltese authorities, a further rescue of 39 immigrants. In response to the various requests, Malta made itself available only at the landing of the 39 immigrants saved in this further operation in its waters of competence and contested the possibility of welcoming the others who, meanwhile, had been on board for several days. On August 10, a first evacuation of some people was carried out for health reasons. On August 14, the TAR of Lazio suspended that interministerial act, even if the Government challenged the decision of the administrative court. On 15 August, after a further request from POS, the ship approached Lampedusa, where it was authorized to settle to shelter, since the weather-sea conditions had deteriorated and therefore there was a need for safeguard. Then there were further initiatives of disembarkation of people who, for sanitary reasons, were sent off from the ship, with the participation of the Italian Harbour office and the Guardia di Finanza. On 14 August the President of the Count Council sent to the then Interior Minister Salvini a letter, which is in the Commission's proceedings and which colleagues were also able to consult, inviting him to take urgent steps to ensure the assistance and protection of minors present on the boat. The next day, on 15 August, the then Interior Minister Salvini replied with a letter saying that, having the Spanish flag ship, it was that country that had jurisdiction, so also competence, as far as minors were concerned and the protection of their human rights. Salvini pointed out that there were also adults accompanying minors. On August 16, after a further evacuation for health reasons and the notification of an extrajudicial act of caution, with which the lawyers of the Open Arms asked various Ministers to authorize the entry of the ship into the port, the President of the Council, replying to the reply that had received from minister Salvini, highlighted the necessity to authorize the immediate disembarkation of the minors present on board. I would like to draw the attention of my fellow Members to the fact that it is on these facts that we must vote, not on an abstractly political debate, which could take place in other places and places: the President-in-Office of the Council indicated the need for minors to be landed by letter. Minister Salvini responded to this invitation on 17 August (then the answers were immediate, from one day to the next, of course, considering the delicacy and topicality of the matter), ensuring that, despite not agreeing to the reading of the legislation proposed by President Conte, he would agree to the landing of the presumed minors. The adjective "presumed" is not random, because then, once landed, part of them turned out, at the controls, not underage. The Minister therefore complied with the President-in-Office's directive, obviously recognizing its superior hierarchical authority. I do not dwell on the rules of the Constitution and the role of the President of the Council and the Council of Ministers; indeed, even more so, not sharing, showed that he was implementing a directive and therefore the involvement of the Government in the highest hierarchies is obvious and obvious. Already here I could stop, ladies and gentlemen, in my report on the facts, because we are dealing with this today: the rest is part of the everyday political debate, nor will I mention in my report current events which I have read in the newspapers and which, however, do not fall within my duties and functions as rapporteur, compared to the controversy over the interceptions, which have not been, cannot and must not be the subject of the evaluation of the Junta, but are part of the political debate. On 18 August, at the disposal of the Agrigento Prefecture and after communication from the Cabinet Office of the Minister of the Interior, the 27 unaccompanied minors were landed in Lampedusa. In the meantime, the Spanish authorities authorized the landing of the ship in Algeciras, but those of Open Arms said it was too far away and was not good. The Italian authorities said that they would accompany the ship with an Italian, to allow a transhipment of illegal immigrants and a more comfortable journey. Despite this Open Arms refused to accept the Spanish proposal to indicate a POS for landing on its shores. Afterwards Spain approached the landing point to the Balearic Islands, because Algeciras was considered too far away, but the Open Arms ship also refused that destination: it is all documented, it is all established. The children had therefore been landed, because the Minister of the Interior had obviously accepted the indication and the provision of the President-in-Office of the Council. Subsequently, on 20 August, there was the inspection of the prosecutor of the Republic at the court of Agrigento, together with some doctors, and the preventive seizure of the ship was arranged, which obviously, having been decided by the judiciary, involved the eviction, but only after the minors had been sent down, in compliance with a government address. The nature of this act is being discussed. The College for Ministerial Crimes has excluded that of political act of the ascribed conducts and has recognized instead a ministerial crime, asking the Senate for the authorization to proceed, against which the Junta has expressed itself. Therefore, the report I am representing here is an expression of the Junta's direction, contrary to the authorisation of the trial. I would like to spare you long legal considerations, which you can find in the text of the report, which I would ask you to examine, in order to place well, in legal terms, the decision and the vote that we will have and will have to take. In the present case, it should be pointed out that the Court of Ministers, which assessed the relevance of Minister Salvini's conduct to offences, which are abstractly hypothesized, of kidnapping and refusal of office documents, identified the ministerial nature of the offences themselves and proceeded with the formulation of the charges, on which the Senate will be called upon to assess the existence of the conditions provided for in Article 9 of Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989 for the granting of authorisation to proceed. It has nothing to do with Article 68 or other aspects of the protection of the parliamentary function: here is a 1989 law concerning the functions of the Government and the Ministers, to which we have referred. The Court of Ministers, as I have said, does not consider it to be a purely political act, but an administrative one, which is therefore open to the judge. We could focus on the further distinction between administrative acts and acts of high administration, but I do not delay; there are also judgments of the Council of State that clarify that the political act, adopted by political and government bodies, is free in the end, unlike the administrative ones. There is a whole jurisprudence that has helped us in the examination of events (this is the third and each one has its own specificity), but the subjects, the sources of law, the precedents and the judgments of the Council of State are the basis of the motivations that we have already represented in other cases in the Assembly and that are specified in the acts, so I do not dwell on them, not because they are not important, but because it would be difficult to follow in detail the countless issues. We are therefore not faced with a criminal under the penal code, which allows anyone to prevent a harmful fact; here we are in the specific fact of a government action. We have also seen in some cases confusion with Article 51 of the penal code, but here we are in another case: otherwise, the judge could have said that, having been prevented from greater damage, it would not have proceeded; instead, it was considered to place the Senate in the face of the dilemma of the conduct of a member of government. In the Junta - I say this because some of my colleagues have raised the issue - we discussed whether there was any trace of the moral nature of the President-in-Office's action. Even from personal experience, I know that, when the Government meets, the President of the Council gives direction, corrects positions and calls for reflection (think of the measures launched subject to publication) and at those stages carries out an action of direction and moral suasion. Of course, we cannot ask the Presidency of the Council for proof of this action, which is a guideline and often leaves no formal written traces. The report cites a judgment of the Constitutional Court that addressed the issue of moral suasion (let's call it so) and acts of direction in relation to the President of the Republic, explaining its role. Think of the appointments of competence of the higher spheres of the State: you will not always find a report, but there is certainly a discussion and discussion. The ruling concerning the President of the Republic is therefore useful to understand that the President of the Council also plays a role of direction, often informally, because he does not record what is said to the Ministers (there are no judgments on the Presidents of the Council, but those who have held this office and sit in this Chamber know it well). In this particular case, there is a letter from the President-in-Office of the Council telling the Minister what to do and what not to do, but there will certainly have been other acts. Therefore, with respect to moral suasion and discussion, I invite you to reflect. Mr Salvini, when he received President Conte's letter, was faced with a crossroads: he could comply with the order or not, assuming political responsibility, with the political consequences of the case. He complied with that directive. Moreover, it is inferred that the President of the Council of Ministers at the time, if he had wished to arrange for the landing of all, would have ordered and written it. President Conte wrote that he had to land the children: it was not prevented by the political will to give a broader order, which he evidently did not consider to issue; in terms of moral suasion, of activities of direction and coordination of the Government, he could have issued this directive, therefore, to the contrary, we assume that he did not want to issue it and instead issued a specific one, which was implemented. The Government, as a whole, with the interministerial decree of 1 August 2019 on no to transit and arrival in Italian waters and with the action of President Conte (the one documented by tabulas), participated in this government address. There are the acts and it is these - I repeat - that we must take care of. The purely political debate concerns other areas and, as I recall in the report, questions, motions of mistrust and all that is deemed to be a political dispute over anyone can be presented. Parliament can distrust a government and, with the innovative practice introduced in the last twenty-five years, even the individual minister. This is another thing, however; it is a political judgment, which does not take on criminal importance nor can lead to judicial proceedings. So, recapitulating: the governmental sharing; the interministerial decree; the correspondence between Count and Salvini; the uniformity of the action of the Minister of the inside to the directives of the President of the Council of Ministers; the disembarkation granted in Spain, with the POS to Algeciras; the displeasing of the distant locality; the nearest disembarkation in the Balearics; the availability of the Harbour office to flank the Open Arms with an Italian ship, in order to render less unpleasant the transfer, that however was approachable (we always speak of a limited Mediterranean area); all this, in short, has led us to believe that it has acted for the pursuit of a preeminent public interest. At the time, the public interest was the strictest regulation of the management of migratory flows in order to discourage the trafficking of immigrants. We know that there are other criminals behind these activities - which are also being discussed these days - who, in Libya and elsewhere, are profiting from their illegal management. We have already discussed these issues on the occasion of the events of the ships Diciotti and Gregoretti. I remember that the direction of government was that of a more strict and restrictive management not only of the migratory flows (not within the debates of these days, because I have to stick to a fact, but it is enough to open the newspapers of yesterday, today and perhaps tomorrow, to read the debate that is transversally in place in the country, with events that reprobate, but that - I repeat - are not part of what is submitted to the Council of elections and parliamentary immunity), but also of security. In fact, the fact remains that several times (particularly on 13 June 2018) the National Committee of Public Order and Security and the highest security authorities have identified the possibility of terrorist infiltration into the smuggling of illegal immigrants. Someone will say that the Minister knew what they were, but it is not, because it is a general danger: if one knew that there was a terrorist on a ship, other types of intervention would be arranged. It is a danger of a general nature, which can use the migratory phenomenon, not because the immigrants arriving are all terrorists (no one can think of it), but because a situation of disorder and chaos can benefit or favour those who can infiltrate in Italy and Europe people who come here not in search of bread and work, but for other purposes. This danger has been highlighted over the years by the highest security authorities, with reports and reports that perhaps we do not read carefully either. As parliamentarians we get documents, converted from floppy disks to pen drives, in which information is clearly not sensitive or covered by secret, but of a general nature. Even in these days I have read in the newspapers the alarm of security services, because on the coasts of Libya thousands of people at risk of infiltration are ready to cross the Mediterranean. Therefore, the Minister of the Interior acted on the basis of these government guidelines and also in the pursuit of this public interest. The word "persecution" means that the action of the Government pursues that objective, it does not have the certainty of achieving it. As far as acts are concerned, it is not decided by the Court of Ministers or the Public Prosecutor, because there are margins. I read in the newspapers a few days ago that the Agrigento Public Prosecutor expressed concern about what is happening in terms of immigration into the territory of competence; of course, I wondered if they were the same as the Public Prosecutor who then expressed different orientations, but on this perhaps the debate will offer issues of reflection. Mr President, I come sooner than expected to the substantial conclusion of my report, without abusing it, but taking advantage of the time allowed, which I thank you for, because this matter has its importance. In the view of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which approved my proposal, Minister Salvini pursued a prominent public interest inherent in government action, consisting of the management of migratory flows, also in order to prevent (but this is an ancillary fact) a terrorist threat emerged in the National Committee for Public Order and Security since 2018 (but I also believe on other occasions and certainly in the past). On the political level, as I have already said, everyone can express judgements, motions and challenges, but that is another thing: in this case, we are on a legal level, on the application of the 1989 law and on the assessment of the action of a Minister and - I repeat this once again - of a government action, namely the interministerial decree against the arrival of the ship and the epistolary directives, meditated and formalized of the President of the Council. We are not talking about phone calls, intercepted or collected, but about formal acts, which have also been carried out, despite the divergence of views, and this shows precisely that, at some point, it was the Presidency of the Council that took over the management of certain choices and imposed the application of what it considered to indicate, while others obviously did not consider to use them. That is the thing, colleagues. Since we are well-informed and informed parliamentarians and because many, even in this House, have held responsibilities as a government at various levels, we know the practice of managing events, including complex ones, in terms of fact and law. It is for this reason, therefore, that the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, for all the reasons highlighted so far, and also for many others, which it would find written in the report, has reached certain conclusions. I also thank the Junta for offering arguments for discussion and reflection on which we measured ourselves; the story lasted even more than necessary, because there was all the story of slowing down the judicial activity of the country; On the contrary, I must say that our activities have also taken place, while it seems to me that the ordinary courts of the country are still suffering, judging by what the lawyers tell me, who protest for the chancellors who are not. Our so-called court, which is not such, but a Junta, has worked, although of course the events are of some time ago. Today our report comes to the examination of the Assembly, therefore I ask colleagues to approve the proposal of the Junta for the refusal of the request for authorization to proceed, waiting for the existence, in this case, of the modest pursuit of the pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government, referred to in article 9, paragraph 3, of Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. I certainly do not miss the political importance of the things we are discussing, but we are also in a forum that must move according to the facts, the laws, the norms and the prerogatives that concern the action of government in abstract and absolute terms. Today the person concerned does not act as a government, but the question of government actions concerns the institution in its complexity, in the decisions it must take: in other ways we are discussing different emergencies that have then been added in the country, with a debate on the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and other decrees, therefore on the action of government the legal discussion is wide and will never cease, as is normal. On this point, I think that the facts are very clear. The Junta has had the opportunity to discuss them and also to meditate on them, because they have remained in our actions more than necessary, but with a greater speed than other levels of justice, and I therefore call on colleagues to approve this proposal which denies the authorization to proceed with regard to the then Minister Matteo Salvini. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u6	I declare the debate open. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u7	Mr President, this is the third time that the Senate has been called upon to give a ruling on a request for authorisation of the judgment of Senator Salvini for the way in which on three different occasions he exercised the powers of the Minister of the Interior to prevent the docking of boats that had assisted at sea and the landing of shipwrecks and it is the third time that I have compared myself, right from the Constitution, with the rapporteur, Mr Gasparri. For the third time, I rise to remind this House of the task assigned to us by the Constitution and the law in this institutional transition, and above all to remind us of what is not our task, namely what are the limits of the exercise of our power. Let's start with what we don't have to do and we can't do. Firstly, today we are not a court that must decide whether, in relation to the accusations, Senator Salvini is guilty or innocent, whether others with him are responsible for the crimes that are being challenged to them, or whether the judgment given against him has properly assessed the elements that emerged during the investigation. In short, we are not called to judge the decision of the court of ministers, nor to anticipate the decision that the ordinary court will take if the Senate allows the trial. Right? Secondly, I believe here that we must not discuss Senator Salvini's ideas on immigration and their relationship with his conduct in the Open Arms case as in the previous ones. For over a year now I have been waiting for the moment, which this majority continues to postpone, when Parliament will be able to discuss the amendment of the so-called security decrees and the reform of the immigration law. That is not the place to discuss the ideas, political initiatives and responsibilities of Senator Salvini. Today we just have to decide - excuse me if it is little - whether it should be sent to trial for crimes of kidnapping and omission of legal acts that the rules of the security decrees have obviously not deleted at all. The appeal to the rule of law and to the guarantee of the rights of citizens, and the accused in the first place, must be paid by everyone remaining in the womb of their power and function. I don't want to, and you can't be accusers, defenders, or Senator Salvini's judges. Instead, we come to our task, I repeat: to the limits of our power. We must consider whether the conduct of which the judiciary contests the criminal importance were intended to protect a constitutionally relevant interest of the State, or to pursue a pre-eminent public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. The Council of Immunity has recognized the existence of this second criminal considering that Senator Salvini has acted for the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest. On the contrary, I believe that the former Minister Salvini justified his conduct for general political purposes, for example the defence of the national interest, whose coincidence with the public interest is not at all obvious, which in fact has not been qualified and whose preeminence over other interests and rights at stake sacrificed on that occasion has not been motivated. The lack of qualification of the public interest and the justification for its primacy is already more than sufficient to justify the vote against the refusal to authorise it, because, I repeat, as the Court's judgment also says, in order to be denied the authorization to proceed, it must be justified - I say well: do not say, but, the Court says, it must be justified - that the inquisition has acted for the protection of a constitutionally relevant interest. The explanatory statement cannot be purely political but must indicate the interest of the State. I'm told there was a chance there were terrorists on board. This is not the case and it is not the case by law, because the risk must be proven, immediate, contextual and not foreseen: to represent a cause for justification of the Minister's conduct should have been concrete threats. So, for the third time, I repeat what I said on 20 February 2020 about the Gregoretti case: the reasons for national security that can justify the violation of the law must entail real and present danger to the integrity of the State, to the life and safety of people, to constitutional rights, that is, real states of necessity that I frankly do not see. So I think, for these reasons, precisely because I am not a judge, that Mr Salvini, like all Italian citizens, will have every opportunity to defend himself in the trial. He's gonna make race calls or he's not gonna make them, depending on the defensive strategy. I am told that the process will last for a long time, but it will also last for millions of Italian citizens too long, and for this reason, for the third time, I will vote against the proposal to deny the authorisation to judge Senator Salvini. You, Senator Salvini, will have a very good defense, I am convinced. He'll have every chance to defend himself. You yourself said that you did it to deal with Europe. You yourself said: proceed to me now, so that you may try the Italian people. I mean, like megalomania, it's not bad. Senator Salvini, you are not the Italian people, you are today, here, a senator who, in my opinion, must answer for the performance of your duties as Minister and you will have every chance of doing so. It's not us and it doesn't have to be the Senate shield from the trial. Let there be an invitation to all, even when they are ministers, to exercise their duties within and within the limits of the Constitution and the rules in force. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u8	Senator Renzi is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u9	Mr President, in 1804, Bishop Talleyrand had the opportunity to leave a statement to history, which some do not attribute to him either, after a terrible fact in France. He said, "It's worse than a crime. It's a mistake. I believe that in the case of the management of the country's migration policy from 2018 to 2019, with the so-called yellow-green government, before even discussing whether there have been crimes, which is not up to us, as Mrs Bonino pointed out very correctly a few moments ago, there must be a clear and precise distinction between those who believe that it was a mistake and those who believe that it was not a mistake. We have not changed our mind about this: I tell my colleagues at Movimento 5 Stars. We always thought that the management of migration policy was a mistake and I don't need to tell Senator Salvini, who knows very well, having an opinion diametrically opposed to mine or I having it diametrically opposed to his. Maybe I need to tell that part of the intellectuals of the left who have intended to establish a connection between deeply different governments, between deeply different political people, perhaps united only by the name of baptism and who have argued in recent years that we were the ugly copy of the right, when we went to save not only the people at sea, but also - as the former Minister Pinotti knows - to collect at sea, with the Navy, the dead bodies of migrants who died during the crossing. We were this: something different from you. We were the ones who put money into international cooperation, because saying "let us help them at home" for us was a fair principle, to be realized concretely, by increasing the funds to international cooperation, which this part of the hemicycle did, when it ruled, and that part of the hemicycle did not do, when it ruled. We were those who, against the opinion of the majority, wanted culture and thought that, if we really wanted to combat Europe's disinterest, we should at least go to meetings in Europe, to which Mr Salvini has rarely attended. That is the political point, because the excellent colleague, Senator Cucca, rightly reminded me, a few moments ago, how political the debate we must have today is. So let us start from this fact. Then there are two elements that must be considered. The first is Mr Gasparri's report, which is very serious, precise and timely, although I do not share it. The second is the elephant in the room, Mr President, which you know best, not least because of your past professional and political experience, which is the relationship between the judiciary and politics. These are the two additional points. Clarified that politically we are on one side and you on the other and that someone has changed their mind over the years - less bad! - then there is the fact that it is necessary to decide whether or not to vote on permission to proceed, Article 96 of the Constitution and not Article 68, as Senator Gasparri recalled: this is an important difference. And then talk about the relationship between the judiciary and politics. I shall proceed quickly with the first point: we must not answer the question of whether Salvini committed a crime or not, nor whether Salvini in this crime was to some extent accompanied by other members of the Government. This question must be answered by the judiciary. We must say whether there was a constitutionally protected interest and/or a prominent public interest in the choice of Senator Salvini not to let the migrants land, a choice that the President of the Council endorses, at least in the part where he does not refer to the adult in his letter recalling President Gasparri. That is the question and I answer by saying that for me the constitutional interest protected or the pre-eminent public interest in this matter are not there, as there were not on the previous two requests for authorization to proceed. I cannot say that there is a prominent public interest in keeping a boat away from the Italian coast. I can discuss political choices, and I believe that this assessment is a choice aimed at exploiting consensus. You don't block immigration by keeping a boat out of the way, you raise followers on Facebook. It is the populist vision of immigration, because if you want to block immigration you have to manage processes upstream, you have to go make a big investment in Africa, you have to have a European vision, you have to attend European meetings, you have to do exactly the opposite of what the first Conte Government did. The political point is that in the face of this passage the considerations that are expressed by the colleagues of the League and in a more institutionally correct way by the president of the Junta of the elections and parliamentary immunity Gasparri, are absolutely correct in the part where they say that there is a shared responsibility with the Government. Here no one can deny this fact; the left cannot deny it, the right cannot deny it, but it is not the element of the contending. On the contrary, I say very frankly, we who voted in favour of the authorisation to proceed with the former Minister Salvini and who are going to vote again in favour, having not changed our mind, say in this House that if there were a request for authorisation to proceed not already against the former Minister of the Interior, Senator, but against the former Minister of Transport, Senator, who is also involved in managing ports, we would vote in the same way for authorisation to proceed. In fact, if there is no preeminent public interest for Senator Salvini, there is not even for Senator Toninelli. By ending this first part, I would add that the exploitation of a boat is a political fact, whether it is a crime or not, it is not up to us to evaluate it. My opinion - I say this because I want my opinion of this Senate and Senator Salvini to be fully corrected and transparent - is that if it had been an assessment to make on Article 68 of the Constitution and on fumus persecutionis in this case, after what we have read about some interceptions against Senator Salvini, it would change. Attention, it is not acceptable - I say this having just announced the vote in favour of the authorization to proceed with the former Minister Salvini - that there are chats of magistrates in which it is said that a Member, in this case a political opponent of mine, but a Member who must enjoy the respect of this House [[Applause]] , must be attacked, regardless, even if he is right. I acknowledge to the League that on this point we are in the presence, technically, of a scandal [[Comments.]] I then explain to those who evidently woke up just now, like Senator Ronzulli, that the political point is that politics respects Article 96 of the Constitution, since you rinse the mouth of the Constitution, on lunch break make at least an effort to read it. It is a learned Kennedian quotation, which I do not expect colleagues from Forza Italia to know. [[Comments]] I am not in a hurry and it is clear that those who do not succeed in moving from populism to politics cannot understand that, when we are in Parliament and turn to an authorization to proceed, we do not vote on a tweet, but on an article in the Constitution that should at least be read, it shows that today we are living that law of the counterfeit for which that populism that was the reason for blocking boats today turns against it. [[Comments]] I come to the second point. The relationship between the judiciary and politics is a relationship in which we have an elephant in the room, Mr President. On 12 December, when we spoke in this House, we asked for a mature political reflection. We were then told no, because then the question was about funding politics through a foundation that was judged to be party current. You see, friends and colleagues, either we deal with the relationship between the judiciary and politics, or it's up to everyone sooner or later. Let us be clear: if an articulated component of a party is so defined, even if it is a foundation that organizes events, and therefore the law on illicit financing of parties applies to them, even if it is in the presence of a different legal fact and a different legal configuration, if this happens today for a foundation, whatever it is, tomorrow it can happen that a srl who works alongside politics can become the subject to which is contested an illicit financing of politics. Friends and colleagues, what comes out of the intercepts of the magistrates was casually and suddenly put in mothballs by all the major media. Why, Madam President? If this information, which comes from magistrates, had come from politicians, those politicians would all be investigated at least for traffic of influence. If there are instruments such as the Trojans - I say this here in the Senate, and it does not concern me - that are lit up and turned off without a logical criterion; if they remain on, despite the different indication of the investigative magistrate, in view of the presence of parliamentarians in a meeting - this is a very serious act, on which you, Mr President, with your fellow President of the House, will have to intervene sooner or later - if the Trojans remain on when there is a Member, if the Trojan remains on when there is a very private, intimate meeting of the person under investigation and if suddenly the Trojan is deleted when someone else meets, perhaps because he is an important character of the institutions or the judiciary, we are in the presence of a Venezuelan drift, which I have the courage to say here in this Chamber, in the silence of the most. [[Applause]] Mr President, we are experiencing a complicated political season, in which a serious and good magistrate, who is now enrolled in Castelpulci school, risks not making the same career as another colleague, perhaps less good, because he does not join the right current or maybe because he does not subscribe to any current. We are in the presence of a former President-in-Office of the Council who has been declared to have fallen from this Senate in the last parliamentary term, in my view correctly, on the basis of the sentence but who today sees his personal affair deeply questioned by some interceptions and recordings of a magistrate. We are in the presence of a fact: the fact is that there is a... [[The microphone is turned off]] It is a policy that does not work. There are two options here. The first is that you think of taking the individual act and thinking about it; in this case, the authorization to proceed with the former Minister Salvini. It has nothing to do with it, because there is Article 96 of the Constitution. The second is to have the courage, majority and opposition together, to stand around a table beginning in September, Mr President, and to discuss the relationship between politics and the judiciary, knowing that on this side of the table you will find people ready to listen to you. But on this side of the majority it must be clear: don't ask yourself who the bell rings for, because once it sounds for someone, once it sounds for others, but soon it could ring for those who don't expect it. We have the courage to finally address the issue of the relationship between politics and the judiciary. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u10	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u11	Mr President, I respectfully say to Mr Renzi - it seems to me a lot to say this, but I try to draw the consequences. From the legal point of view, in my opinion, the story of the Open Arms, the third story of Salvini, can be interpreted in many ways. I do not say this because of superficiality, but because of the complexity of the matter, which has been treated - as it is said - at the head of the law regarding the precedent, the previous judgments and also in the particular historical moment. If we go to examine Salvini's discretionary decisions, Count's letter on the obligation, necessity and advice to have the children disembarked, the landing of the sick, the boarding of the judiciary, which seemed exorbitant to me at that time, we must take note of the complexity of the matter. From a political point of view, however, I wonder whether the quarantine on ships over the past few weeks, at a prohibitive cost, is not an indirect form of sequestration. What's the difference? Were there more services on the quarantine ships? Was there a play area or something different? But I want to return to the essentially political issue: how can we act politically and how can political choices be translated into administrative acts? In other words, I want to talk about the discretion of political and administrative action, which is an issue that has been the subject of judgments, writings and debates and which has never been resolved because, by its very nature, it cannot be resolved because in so many cases the matter and, above all, the decisions overlap and create an impossibility to settle. A political program and the defense of widespread collective interests, which are judged prominent on a political side that represents a predominant part of the electoral body, how can they be translated, when the border is labile? So discretion, in my opinion, must be interpreted in this and in other cases with a high possibility of analogy and broad interpretation, with the prevalence of politics as a collective interest worthy of being defended. In the meantime, and at the bottom of this issue, we are always talking about the different conception of immigration and what is happening. Sometimes I ask myself as a Christian if, being opposed to immigration, I am in the correct interpretation and translation of the Magisterium. Then, I confront myself and console myself with what Wojtyla and Ratzinger said - a little less with what the recent papacy says - and I self-justify myself, as we all do today, that we have all become a little Protestant and we confess ourselves. However, if there is not, after all, a religious motivation according to which I, we, a party, a faction, a State is led to say that it accepts all those who arrive in Italy and has this deep tension, if it is only for other reasons, then we are not there. I justify the Christian who interprets the concept of immigration in a certain, a little fundamentalist way, but for a citizen, for an Italian, who is not obliged to think of it in this way, I cannot justify what has happened and what has happened in recent weeks. Bringing everyone here, as it is happening again on our shores, isn't it a crime against the weakest Italian citizens? Because it subtracts welfare, there is little to do: if there is an appropriation of 1 million euros or 1 billion for welfare and a thousand people arrive, it is an account, but if 1 million arrives, it is another account: I can't satisfy everyone, I can't let everyone arrive. All this creates insecurity. They tell me it's just perceived. No, it's real insecurity; lifestyles have changed, especially in certain parts of our country. But why - I told you - a family of Italians who had emigrated from the South to Turin and who had struggled to buy accommodation in a condominium, where the other accommodations were bought later by immigrants (in part, in fact, they were also occupied), today is forced to sell out or to give away that accommodation? But what can that family of Italians who have worked a lifetime and the wife has also gone to clean the stairs of their gentlemen? Something's not right. I'm on the side of those weak Italians. As for the profit that favours some cooperatives, the NGOs that have seats in the strangest states but never in Italy: they took them to Holland, Spain or where they like or where they fly the flag. We renounce the fundamental values of our civilization, our values of democracy and society, in order to create a type of people whose origin, history and future are no longer understood. But, in your opinion, given what the newspapers have published (unless they are false photographs), who arrives with the poodle is one who has financial problems and who runs away from the war? There is a false representation of reality that is also given by television and the media, so in Africa it is thought that everything here is free and everything is due. If then they come with the virus, we say: but no, rather we forbid the entrances to tourists, as we did the day before yesterday, with the extension of the state of emergency. Tourism is in difficulty, so what do we do? Can't foreign tourists who spend? No, that's a sin; we bring in immigrants and if they have the virus and then they run away, patience, sad to those who touch. Because it does not touch those who are in the center of Rome or who are in certain types of buildings and frequent certain environments. And that's what a center-right guy says. This is to say that here the vote is essentially political, depending on whether you are majority with Salvini or you are majority without Salvini; depending on the feelings. Finally, I would like to conclude by saying to this House: yesterday someone was talking about the fact that the majority was compact; then, last night and tonight we saw how compact it was. I say to you: in this vow be as compact as in the evening of yesterday and last night, and Salvini will be saved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u12	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urraro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u13	Mr President, we are in the wake of Article 96 of the Constitution and Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989 (Article 9 (3)), as well as of the two cases that dealt with us earlier, the Diciotti case and the Gregoretti case. However, I would like to focus on an exquisitely technical passage which intersects with a political fact, which has rightly been highlighted. On 1 August 2019, the Minister of the Interior, in agreement with the Minister of Defence and with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, issued a decree with which he had "as of now" the prohibition of entry, transit and rest of the Open Arms ship "in the national territorial sea" I brought the song back. On 14 August 2019, the President of the TAR Lazio issued a monocratic decree, pursuant to Article 56 of the Code of Administrative Process, by which it accepted - I read - in the senses of which in the statement of reasons, the application for monocratic precautionary measures of the applicant ProActiva Open Arms, in the context of the appeal for annulment of the aforementioned interministerial measure. In summary, the president of the TAR Lazio, in order to fumus, observed that the appeal did not appear to be entirely dissuaded of legal basis in relation to the vice deduced, while with regard to the periculum in mora thought that it certainly existed, in the light of the documentation produced it, the proposed situation of exceptional gravity and urgency, - I quote - "such as to justify the concession - in the more of the treatment of the precautionary instance in the ordinary ways - of the request monocratic precautionary protection, in order to allow the entry of the ship Open Arms in Italian territorial waters (and therefore to lend the immediate assistance to the most necessary rescued persons, as it seems already happened for the most critical cases). It is therefore clear, by tabulas and without any doubt, that the scope of the monocratic decree of the President of the TAR was limited to entry into territorial waters, in order to allow health and material assistance to the most necessary people. No landing obligation can be deduced from that judicial act. Moreover, if the president of the TAR had wished to order the landing, he would have expressly stated this obligation, even in compliance with the general methodological principle of the ubi lex voluit ibi dixit, ubi noluit tacuit, principle conceived for the legislator and for the laws, but certainly extendable also to judicial acts, expected that requirements of legal certainty are incompatible, both at the level of laws, as well as of judicial acts, with silent and unexpressed profiles, assuming on the contrary explicit and clear statues. In the letter of 15 August 2019 the then Minister Salvini reported to President Conte that he had given a mandate in any case to the General Commission of the State to challenge the aforementioned decree. It should be noted that on 19 August 2019 the Deputy Head of Cabinet of the Ministry of the Interior, the Prefect Formicola, in relation to the request of assignment POS (Place Of Safety), clarified how, according to the perspective of the Ministry, the interministerial decree of 1 August had not ceased to produce its effects in the light of the precautionary measure of the President of the TAR Lazio, with which they had indicated only emergency precautionary measures, aimed at allowing the entry of the boat into territorial waters in order to guarantee assistance to the most necessary rescued persons, not imposing to the Italian authorities any obligation in order to the allocation of a port of disembarkation in the national territory. He also pointed out that the Italian authorities themselves had fulfilled the duty of assistance, helping to carry out the necessary medical evacuations and treating the landing of 27 unaccompanied minors on board. Senator Salvini, also in the memory deposited in Junta on 17 February 2020, states that on 19 August 2019 the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and the Presidency of the Council of Ministers presented before the TAR Lazio request to revoke the precautionary decree of the President of the TAR Lazio, pursuant to Article 56 of the code of the administrative process, given the non-existence of the presuppositions for the issuing of the decree, as well as for being always assured the medical assistance to all migrants, as demonstrated by the medical evacuations, thus not being able the ship to stop further in Italian territorial waters. On the same date, then again on 19 August 2019, the Open Arms produced before the Latium TAR a memory to counter the aforementioned request for revocation, making a request for a new precautionary measure, pursuant to Article 56, fourth paragraph, of the code of the administrative process, asking the president of the same TAR, after confirmation of the previous decree, to adopt, I read: "to supplement the same all the necessary measures to allow the landing of all migrants." It seems evident that the argument that the monocratic decree of the president of the TAR imposed the landing, not only contrasts with the letter of the measure itself, as already pointed out, but appears completely incompatible with the same procedural behaviour of the parties and, in particular, with that of Open Arms, that it would never ask for a second decree to order the landing, if the landing had already been ordered in the first decree. In other words, the same lawyers of Open Arms introduced new request for further precautionary measure ordering the landing of migrants, thus confirming the non-satisfaction of the monocratic precautionary measure compared to the claims of that procedural part. It should also be noted that, if the decree had ordered the landing and had remained unfulfilled, the lawyers of Open Arms would certainly have availed themselves of Article 59 of the administrative process code, which provides that, if the precautionary measures are not carried out, in whole or in part, the interested party, with a reasoned request and notified to the other parties, may ask the regional administrative court for appropriate implementing measures. The court shall, in such a case, as expressly stated in that provision, exercise the powers inherent in the judgment of compliance. In the present case, no compliance under Article 59 was required because no landing had been arranged. Therefore, no road can be identified that would allow the first monocratic decree of the President of the TAR to be considered to have ordered the landing. This assumption emerges from the letter of the measure in question and is also further confirmed by the behaviour of Open Arms' own lawyers in relation to that judicial act. The aforementioned logical incompatibility of the concession of the place of safety (POS) with the aforementioned decree, recognized even by the court, therefore reveals the political purpose and the inesigibility of a different behavior, which would have been different from the concerted action put in place. The case of Open Arms is therefore fully ascribed to the exercise of the function of Government for the pursuit of migratory policy objectives, aimed at combating human trafficking and calling the other Member States of the European Union, as provided for in the Council of Europe Agreement of 28 June 2018, to a burden of sharing in the management of the phenomenon, since the search and rescue operations at sea. The actions put in place by the Minister of Interior had therefore been carried out in implementation of a political direction of the Government, as documented in the previous cases that have occupied us, also following the reading of the memoirs of the President of the Council and the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport of the time, which confirmed this general policy line of the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u14	Senator De Falco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has been said, it is the third time - with regard to expenditure, costs and political times - that we are dealing with Senator Salvini and the way in which he has exercised his ministerial function. I have just finished listening to the report by my colleague and friend Mr Urraro, which is very interesting and, in legal terms, absolutely acceptable. However, it must be said that, under the circumstances, it is irrelevant. In fact, we have to deal today with a question that temporarily falls between 14 and 20 August 2019. In this period of time we have a political situation quite delineated and defined, since from day 8 Senator Salvini had, masochistically I would say, threatened to pull the plug to a government of which he had not realized he was the leader; in fact, he was the leader. That he was the leader is seen from the acts that were put in place by that government, for example, as we will say, with the decree security- bis. He wanted to pull the plug on day 8, but then he didn't have the courage to go any further and he didn't resign. When one does things in this way, from a human, political and social point of view, he clearly pays for them... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Can you hear me? The point is this and this was the political situation of that moment. But what was the factual legal situation? It was the following. Open Arms had carried out some rescue operations at sea. It had been issued, pursuant to the decree security- bis, an interdictive decree, as my colleague Urraro has well said, that it prevented the ship from entering the territorial waters and to make the disembarkation of the shipwrecks (in fact we speak of people gathered in the sea in the process of drowning). This situation, however, had been dealt with at some point by Open Arms, who had appealed, and the president of the TAR had suspended the effectiveness of that ban, although - as my colleague Mr Urraro says - in a partial way, having not intended to prohibit the landing. Well, what's going on? That the participation of ministers Toninelli and Trenta, at this point, becomes irrelevant. At this point, the part relative to the countersigning of the decree interdittive from the minister of infrastructures and the transposted Toninelli and the minister of defense Thirty becomes irrelevant. What's left? It remains impossible to land without an indication of the safe port of landing. And what is the indication of the safe port of landing if not an act (which is not a political act)? It is an act covered by an amendment to the SAR Convention 2004, transposed by Maritime Safety Committee through the guidelines of Resolution 167 (78). These guidelines have been translated in Italy through the standard operating procedures elaborated by the General Command of the captains of port, according to which, against the obligation of the captains of the ships to carry out the rescues, there must be the corresponding obligation - from the acceding States - to lift the same captains of the ships from the necessary requirements in order to carry out the disembarkation in the shortest possible time, involving the least deviation possible from the route and the least increase for the shipowners. Therefore, the international standard that has been introduced into the Italian law, through the ratification of the SAR Convention, signed in Hamburg in 1979, requires the Italian State to indicate the place where to land without delay. What does this mean? That this is not an act assisted by political discretion or an act assisted by a broad administrative discretion; it is an act of technical discretion, in which, it being understood that the if (an) is not in question, it can only vary where and how it is fulfilled. It will be possible and must, that is, evaluate the current marine weather conditions, the proximity of the port, the organization on the ground as to reception and public order. These are the elements that may vary the indication (not concession) of the POS (Place of Safety). In this context, moreover, the security-a decree was in force, because the partial effectiveness - as Mr Urraro correctly says - of the interdiction decree had been suspended, but the security-a decree was in force, which stipulated that the administrative management of these acts should continue to the Minister of the Interior, in collaboration with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport and the Minister of Defence. On 12 February 2019 - excuse me, but it has not been said - a change in the standard operating procedures had been implemented. This change focused no longer on the Department of Civil Liberties and Immigration, as for the previous cases Diciotti and Gregoretti, the responsibility for the indication of the POS, as correctly stated by the court of Palermo, because it insists immediately and - I emphasize - exclusively on the Minister of the Interior. Therefore, everything grabbed the Minister of the Interior, so much so that the court of Palermo excludes any hypothesis of responsibility also of the Head of Cabinet of the Minister of the Interior, the Prefect Plantadosis. In this factual and legal framework there is, in my humble opinion, no possibility of finding the co-responsibility of the President of the Council of Ministers, who does what he can do in terms of moral suasion, as has been correctly said. He can act from the political point of view and writes a letter to Minister Salvini, inviting him at least to end the most obvious crime that is being carried out by preventing the landing of minors. Indeed, there is no doubt that preventing the landing of minors was a criminal offence already in place. So what does President Conte do? He writes to Salvini telling him: make at least minors land (because, I repeat, there was already the integration of a specific crime). I agree with the splendid intervention made by Senator Bonino. Today we have to discuss within a different perimeter, considering whether there are, in this circumstance, elements that qualify the conduct and behaviour of Minister Salvini as objectively intended to pursue a preeminent public interest qualified and not, as is written in the report, a teleological putative hypothesis. What does that mean? With this report, unfortunately, President Gasparri made Italy go back to the Magna Charta Libertatum of 1215. It is not possible, in a rule of law, to say that if the Minister intends to pursue, then it is certainly a matter of functionalisation of the public interest. Are you kidding me? As Senator Bonino has already pointed out, the Constitutional Court has stated that Parliament cannot exempt a citizen, even Minister, from criminal liability if the argumentative process - as in Senator Gasparri's report - is contradictory, insufficient, weak and, above all, not anchored to objective data. That's the point. There must be no chaste agreements in this House, as some people seem to have mentioned. You don't have to agree because in here, sooner or later, it's everyone's turn. I repeat, you can't. We are here not to defend ourselves, but the function: but if there is no objective function, then the exception has no reason to be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u16	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start from a point of view repeated several times in this House, namely that the Senate is not the judge of Minister Salvini and that it must assess only the fulfilment of the requirements of Article 9 of the Constitutional Law of 16 January 1989, No 1. It is true that this clarification is correct, but I cannot fail to point out that in this House a subject has returned which has become very topical, namely the relationship between politics and the judiciary. Since 1993, when Parliament, under the emotional pressure of public opinion, has removed parliamentary immunity, there is no counterweight to the judiciary and we frequently witness, repeatedly, the invasion of the field by the judicial authority towards politics, beyond the fact that two referendums have established the need to identify the civil responsibility of the magistrates and never discussed it again. Even in the light of the captures, transcriptions, messaging among some magistrates, these considerations cannot fail to point out in this debate, which is the only form not of corporatism, but of self-protection and defence of the institutions from the inappropriate invasion of the judiciary against politics and political initiative. This is an issue that we must take into account and not just as President Renzi does, which does not lose an opportunity to mention the question of foundations, which obviously are particularly dear to him. The problem is much more general and concerns everyone; it cannot concern a part or a single subject. The facts have been set out in detail by the rapporteur and have been taken up again. Minister Salvini's behaviour was to comply with a political direction that had been established (and could not be otherwise within the meaning of Article 95 of the Constitution) by the President of the Council and in the exercise of this expression he guaranteed respect for human rights, observed the laws, did not abandon on a boat of immigrants, however illegal who had no legitimate title to enter our country. That's the truth. It allowed the evacuation for medical reasons; it allowed, despite not sharing it, the landing of unaccompanied minors, as it invited the President of the Council to do, who until then with his silence had ratified the behaviour of his Minister of the Interior. I therefore consider the conclusion reached by the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to be correct, which identified the existence of the second criminal under Article 9 of Constitutional Law No 1 of 1989, i.e. having acted in the exercise of the function of Government and in the pre-eminent public interest. We must therefore check whether the action in this case was part of the exercise of the function of government. As I said earlier, the coordination and control of the Government is carried out by the President of the Council and it has been recalled that on 1 August 2019 the Minister of the Interior acted in agreement with the Minister of Defence and with the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, therefore with a collegial act that was absent from the President of the Council. Minister Salvini, therefore, was absolutely in the exercise of the function of government as established by the President of the Council; the rapporteur of the Council told you that there is no need for a formal act establishing what is the behaviour that the individual Minister or that Ministers must hold in certain circumstances; there are informal relations and contacts, there are customs, there are absentees. Therefore, having acted in the first place in agreement with the other Ministers and having carried out that initiative with the assent, with the silent assent of the President of the Council absolutely qualifies the role of Minister Salvini at that time as a function of Government, so much so that when the President of the Council felt that he no longer shared a certain behaviour, for his reasons that Minister Salvini did not accept but that he respected (he could not do otherwise, since the obligation of coordination of the activity of Government was of the President of the Council), he invited Minister Salvini to bring the unaccompanied minors down. There is therefore certainly the exercise of the function of government, as identified and established by the President of the Council. Now we have to see if there is the preeminent public interest. The previous speakers say that there is no such thing. What is the preeminent public interest? It is the protection and protection of non-negotiable rights of the citizens of our country. In those circumstances of time and place, Italy had become the natural port of berth of boats of non-EU countries, we are living it also these days, I don't think the situation has changed. That attitude served to convince, beyond the agreement signed in 2018 on the redistribution of immigrants, that then it was not respected, so much so that Malta, which was the country competent to intervene for the International Convention, did not do so except in the third line, only with 39 shipwrecks that had been saved. He wanted to do it and he didn't, but he had given his willingness. Is it not a national interest to ensure the proper redistribution of non-EU nationals on European territory? There are 650.00 illegal illegal aliens who are maintained by our country still today and cost several billions of euros. At a time of difficulty which is not only determined by the Covid, but which has existed for a long time, with five million absolute poor, is it not a prime national interest to guarantee the protection of citizens' rights before opening up to solidarity? Does the presence in our prisons of 34% of non-EU prisoners not create a need for security for our country? Is it not a legitimate behavior, in the interest of the nation, that put in place by Minister Salvini, to try to put a brake and a remedy to a custom that had been created? I believe there are all the conditions and I am not surprised that President Renzi has not changed his mind compared to the other requests for authorisation to proceed. I am surprised and makes me very much like, instead, that the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, who had even passionately rejected the request for permission to proceed in the Diciotti case and who today have changed their minds and probably did not do so on issues in point of law, but only because yesterday they were in the government with the League and today instead the League is in opposition. This is not the way to conduct political battles. [[Applause]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the only place where we can shout our independence in political choices, our prerogative to make certain political choices, in the face of the constant invasions of the field by the judiciary. Recent events are evidence of how long some of us have been saying and who today find other proselytes. It's an objective fact. To make excuses a posteriori, to celebrate funerals, may honestly serve to give you an attenuating conscience, but it certainly does not serve to restore the truth and respect for facts and institutions. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is not with the permissions that the political battles take place. The political battles are being waged in this House, they are conducted by confrontation of ideas, the contribution of citizens and the vote, and certainly not by unjustly and inappropriately putting a representative before Parliament and then the Government as Minister Salvini was. What is even more serious is that there is reason to believe that not only the authorization to proceed that is required, if granted, would be inappropriate and not covered by the constitutional guarantees, but that you by this act, if you accept it, send an Italian citizen, a representative of the Republic, a former Minister before a firing squad. This is your responsibility, and you will be accountable to your consciences and voters. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u18	Senator Stefani is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u19	(IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Open Arms affair concerns issues which we have dealt with a long time ago when we examined the Diciotti case and the Gregoretti case, because they all look alike and differ only because of certain peculiarities. Certainly the case under consideration today is rather complex and complex. There have been quite atypical behaviors on the part of the ship's commander who, despite, to them say, the difficulties of the rescues in sequence, refused to land where he could. That of Open Arms is a story that fits, among other things, in a complicated ripple of responsibility and competence between the various foreign authorities that are called to respond. All this in a national and international framework of very difficult reading and further complicated because it is part of procedures first administrative and then judicial. A further complication is that the automatic relocation mechanism for migrants was not in operation at all. This has been discussed, it has been discussed, as colleagues have also said, and the facts have been broadly summarised in the report proposed by President Gasparri. If we want to open a small parenthesis, we are certainly not here to assess whether or not there is a possibility of crime. It should be noted, however, that there are some contradictions in the very request for authorization to proceed which could make clear, although not even so hidden, the intention of wanting to smokily pursue a political representative as uncomfortable as Salvini. The accusation addressed to Minister Salvini is that he has held an omissive course for failure to indicate the POS to the ship and for violation of international conventions and of the principles of rescue at sea, that is the so-called seizure. But reading well on pages 107 and 108 of the application for authorization to the court of ministers, the same court says that there is no possibility of crime as referred to in Article 323, claiming that there are no grounds to support in court the assumption that the primary objective of the POS's refusal by the Minister was precisely to deprive migrants of their freedom of locomotion and to prejudice their right to health and other fundamental rights. He is saying, that there was no intent, there was no will to do so. Moreover, the same court of ministers also confirms that there is the complaint referred to in Article 9, i.e. the famous, trite and contrite (because I think that our citizens also know exactly what it is) pursuit of a preeminent public interest in the exercise of government functions. The court, in fact, says that the conduct of the Minister appeared animated by the aim of combating irregular entry into the Italian territory and of actively opposing the lack of responsibility for migratory events by other States of the European Union. He's confirming it. This is a contradiction in which it seems to emerge that, sometimes, it is okay to support a thesis when it is against Salvini, while it goes wrong when you have to support it in favour of the Minister himself. We believe that we share everything that has been explained by the rapporteur. It is fully proven that there is this pursuit of preeminent public interest. Pursuit does not mean effective protection, it means that you have acted in the intent of and in function of and pre-eminent does not exactly mean prevailing, it is not a prevailing judgment and we are talking about the exercise of a function of government. It is not necessary because it seems to keep repeating it, but we can recall very well what has already been said both in the case of Gregoretti and in the case of Diciotti. It is clear that there was a government political involvement of the President-in-Office of the Council and the whole Council of Ministers on decisions on migration policy. It is not necessary to recall all the speeches made by President Conte, who were made here in the Senate, in the context of programmatic statements or in the communications in view of the European Councils. We also remember the interventions of the other Ministers: even if it was the Gregoretti case, the same vice premier of the time, Di Maio, has repeatedly argued that, in his opinion, Italy could not bear new arrivals of migrants and that migrants had to go to the rest of Europe and Toninelli himself called him back. The involvement is then fully seen in the famous inter-ministerial inter-dictional decree of 1 August, then challenged and sub-iudice, which was signed by ministers Trenta and Toninelli, as well as by Minister Salvini. The Ministries established themselves before the TAR, in order to defend the decree of 1 August. Then there is a special correspondence between Minister Salvini and President Conte, in which, clearly, the Minister has worked as Minister and the President of the Council has worked as President of the Council, that is, Article 95 of the Constitution has been fully applied, so the President of the Council directs the general policy of the Government and is responsible for it, maintains the unity of direction, promotes and coordinates the activity of the Ministers. The landing of minors was arranged and requested, thereby arguing against, ordering or giving a directive on the landing of others. Let us remember that, however, President Conte could have availed himself of a rule, contained in Law No 400 of 1988, according to which the President of the Council of Ministers may suspend the adoption of acts by the Ministers. It was a period that we know well, there were political difficulties and therefore, if he had wanted to discredit the actions of the Minister, well he could have done so. There was therefore a full involvement. We can therefore only confirm the conclusions of President Gasparri's report, in which the reasons for the existence of the complaint have been fully explained. Nothing has changed, the overview of the facts is the same for both the Diciotti case, and for the Gregoretti case. In the Diciotti case, the 5 Star Movement took a position and today no. What's changed? Only the alliances have changed. We know that, in balancing the powers provided for in the Constitution, the judiciary does not have the right to process choices about how to pursue public interests, with the function of government. This is the real guarantee offered by Law No. 1 of 1989. It is only in this Chamber, when we discuss requests for authorization to proceed, that we simply have to divide the pro-Salvini senators and the anti-Salvini senators in the Commission and in the Assembly. There are principles to which we must call ourselves, as Senator Renzi has also said, even if we affirm the separation of powers, but then, when we have to act against Salvini, it is okay to act against Salvini. We must remember that there is autonomy of politics and independence of the judiciary, but, in conclusion, the real issue is that the opponent fights it with votes and certainly not in a courtroom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u20	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u21	Mr President, what we are going to discuss today is a political issue and this is demonstrated by the fact that the debate is precisely about the possibility of declining hard, radical, strong policies in the face of migratory flows. This is also demonstrated by the distribution of time, given by the Mixed Group. Who defends the soft line, the government line, has ten minutes, who instead, like me, tries to say something different, has only five; ten minutes to Senator Bonino, ten to Senator De Falco, ten to Senator Grasso and five to Senator Paragone, who obviously must not be able to say certain things except for a reduced time. Here too you have to see a bit of scar on you and that's exactly what you have to see in relation to the story of Salvini, who is one of the interpreters of the hard line and then sending Salvini to trial the second time, you say you can't and you don't have to have in governments that line that with the first government, with a different majority, Salvini interpreted as Minister of the Interior. That was, however, the Minister of the Interior of a Government that I trusted. In fact it was saved in the case of the ship Diciotti, also by the MoVimento 5 Stars that had then obviously uncomfortable the platform Rousseau, had given maybe some Maalox to someone who had stomach ache, but in the end it was saved because there was the majority to run. Is that so or isn't it? Of course it is, then the alliances change and here everything becomes barterable. It is a bit like the ESM; in the end, so much has been done, that they put it in black and white and had to be there because a political signal must be given. Given that the issue is exquisitely political, that is, whether it is possible to have a tough, firm and determined policy on controlling migratory flows, Brussels is telling us to be careful about the alliances we make because otherwise it ends up sending you to trial. It is this - land, land - the game we are discussing. There must be no possibility that countries will have a firm line on the control of migratory flows [[Applause]] And then, from here, there will be those who say enough with the uncontrolled flows of migration and, on the other hand, there are those who close an eye, there are those who say they have now noticed the emergency coming from Tunisia. Welcome, Minister Lamorgese, everyone understood that. I want to remember something weird. During the lockdown we witnessed the use of drones, army and law enforcement forces to pick up those running on the beach. There was one block sunbathing and half of the law enforcement to pick him up. So let's get this straight, with all this stuff you've been able to control those jogging on the beach during the lockdown, and you can't, with satellite employment, keep a part of the Mediterranean under control? People realize they don't want to do this. Of course they do not want to do that, because Europe simply acts on a double cage to disintegrate States and create social tensions; from above, there is the grip that comes through financial capital and, from below, through mass migrations. So close the countries, disintegrate the states and create tensions that, by chance, will always, once again, dump on the weakest parts of the cities and the country, on the outskirts already inhabited by the unemployed, by people invisible to labour policies, people who - by chance - are forced to live in conditions of absolute discomfort this pseudo integration. In fact, if you don't invest, integration will never happen. In fact, if you take away money on services, housing, health care and kindergartens, it goes without saying that the places are few and there is constant tension... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Paragon, I'm sorry. They let me know you can talk ten minutes, so you have five more. PARAGO (Mixed). Thank you. By now I had articulated the speech. I was therefore saying that these tensions are poured out on the outskirts that - by chance - are the places where the most plastic and most evident is the discomfort of the lack of spending. It is not in fact that integration is obtained with the sum of more ethnicities put in those parts of the city. If you believe it, integration also has a cost. So far no one has believed it, starting with the left, who has accidentally lost his votes in the suburbs because there is the discomfort of an integration never consumed, never even guided in political terms. In fact, when you do not have the opportunity to act on the labour market and to intervene on unemployment, it is precisely on the outskirts that the latter falls, increasing social tensions. It is in the outskirts that there are housing needs. It is in the outskirts that there is a problem because there is a lack of social services, even integrated services. There's the underlying problem. This is the theme: they want to welcome and then think that integration comes by itself. We are experiencing a particularly delicate and intense moment, in a crisis in which Italian citizens have been forced to lockdown (and have been very disciplined); but then we find strange news, from which emerges a kind of asymmetry: we must be very controlled, through lockdown and the deprivation of freedom to circulate; on the other hand we are witnessing strange uncontrolled entrances, uncontrolled flights, people who risk bringing a possible contagion. People see it. The problem is therefore not the trial in Salvini; we take Salvini out of the speech even if in this case we are talking about a judicial matter. The theme here is political, because Salvini, when he occupied the post of Minister, did not occupy him as a king, but was occupying him as Minister of the Interior of one of the two forces that made up the majority of that Government. Now someone says it's weird and didn't expect Salvini to be tough on the migratory control front, surprising the thing because he never said that in the election campaign. And the Movimento 5 Stars idem: when he made the election campaign it was tough also on the issue of migratory flows. The two political forces converged, and that's why the security packages eventually found a majority; then someone pulled a little bit on one side and someone else tried to moderate, for God's sake. But that majority was found: that wanted to be a common line. Now, changing the political paradigm, those security decrees embarrass and what the first government of the legislature did embarrassment, but there are traces. On migratory flows I think that, with this vote, we will understand in a plastic way who decides in one way and who decides in another. With this vote we will understand who says no to uncontrolled migratory flows, who says that someone is earning money and lucrating us with certain migratory flows and, on the other hand, who says: We now welcome some consensus in the city centers and in the ZTL, we stay in our comfort zone and the newspapers cuddle us a bit and "everything is fine, Madame the Marquise". It is a pity that people outside tell us that this is not the case; things are emerging in their tension, because - as I said before - when we cannot control these landings, foreign citizens are not dumped, but tensions are being discharged on other citizens. I hope then that once and for all we will take a line. I believe that this line is deeply dictated by Europe: Europe, through uncontrolled flows and through these mass migrations, wants to create panic within European countries. It is a precise design that they have in Europe and this design must be dismantled. That is why, more than once, I have suggested breaking the cage of the European Union, because there are also the toxins of what I think is a bad policy also on migration issues: from top to top with finance and from bottom with migratory flows. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u22	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bressa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u23	Mr President, on 9 March 1977 Aldo Moro in the House, in a memorable speech on the Lockheed affair, in defense of Luigi Gui, said these words: There is the objective risk of an unacceptable politicization and that, equally serious, that our behavior is considered to be affected by biased reasons, in any direction whatsoever. It is a risk that you run every time a Chamber is called upon to decide on the permission to proceed with a component of it. That's why I want to stick to facts, rules and jurisprudence. In the report of President Gasparri it is stated: "it is not necessary here to assess whether or not the choices made by Minister Salvini are acceptable... but only if the latter were aimed at the pursuit of a public interest inherent in the action of Government." Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989, laying down rules on proceedings for offences referred to in Article 96 of the Constitution, defines the two essential elements of these offences: the first is the exercise of a government function and the second is the pursuit of a preeminent public interest. These are the parameters for assessing the action of a Minister or the President of the Council, which have been confirmed by the constant jurisprudence of the Cassation (to name one for all, I recall the judgment n. 8854 of 1998). Has Senator Salvini pursued a prominent public interest? What's that? In the case of the Open Arms the primary interest was the duty of rescue and the docking to a safe harbor. On the Open Arms were said to be of all colors - it's a Spanish ship - it's a private ship - but the duty of rescue at sea operates for all. From this point of view, it is the recent judgment of the Cassation no. 6626 of 20 February 2020, which deals with the case of Carola Rackete and the Sea Watch, entered into port in Lampedusa in violation of the interministerial decree issued under the safety decree Salvini- bis. Recalling several international conventions signed by Italy - which, I would like to remind you, are over-ordered sources compared to state law - the Court has given a very extensive definition of the duty of rescue at sea establishing that this is imperative and can be said to be fulfilled only by the landing of migrants, which must take place as soon as reasonably possible in a place where they can ask for international protection, that is, an operation that, according to the Cassation, cannot be carried out on the ship. In support of this, the Council of Europe Resolution No 1821 of 2011, which states that the safe place is where the physical protection of persons is guaranteed, but also the respect of their fundamental rights. The arrest of Carola Rackete was declared illegitimate because only by docking on the dock, even against the Italian entry ban, he fulfilled to the end the duty of rescue imposed by the applicable supranational legislation. It is a pronunciation that puts the duty of the migrant's rescue at the centre, in fact reducing very much the line that distinguishes refugees from economic migrants, for which international protection does not operate, and establishing that first of all they must be allowed to disembark, since the assessment of status takes time and can certainly not be done at sea. The focus is the legal qualification of the decision not to authorise the landing until the manifestation of availability from other European States to the distribution of migrants has been received. It must be demonstrated that, even if it is an act falling within the function of Government, the delay of the authorization to disembark must be caused by a situation of danger to the security of the State and its borders and that this situation of danger has been prevalent in the balancing of the rights in conflict, the duty to rescue the migrants and the protection of their dignity and personal freedom. The Constitution, in Articles 2 and 10, defends fundamental and indispensable rights. The political conveniences of the moment cannot subdue the legal culture and the protection of the Constitution to party interests, and that is what we are talking about now. The jurisprudence of the Supreme Court in establishing the boundaries of the seizure of a person: it is sufficient that the victim, for a short period also, pours in condition of relative and not absolute impossibility of self-liberation, which must be judged taking into account his difficulties in reason of personal conditions to overcome the physical and psychological obstacles that are opposed to the recovery of freedom. Professor Filippo Sgubbi, who wrote fundamental things for criminal law, argues that crime and guilt are a state that precedes the commission of a fact. This is not a general fault inherent in the human person as such, but is linked to the social role he holds and to the type of activity he carries out in life. Be careful, therefore: not a specific fact; I repeat, role and activity carried out. And Senator Salvini, in the role and activity of Minister of the Interior, has judged that 164 people, of whom 27 declared unaccompanied minors (in fact there were 18), represented a danger and a threat to national security; for which they were held at sea for nineteen days. But did he really think so, or was it a political choice to pursue partisan political ends? The most correct definition is that of populist use of the criminal question, to ensure the power that exercises it to acquire popular consent and thus appease the pressure or perhaps, better, to excite its compulsion. The people are not the protagonist of a policy that increases their role, but is used as a recipient of a legislative or government message, the aim of which is to restrain their pressure by appease their worries with operations of pure facade. Too bad this time the operation wasn't a front, but it took on the contours and the substance of the kidnapping. Horace in one of his Carmen, which begins with the words "integer vitae scelerisque purus," writes that those who are intact of life and pure of guilt do not need weaves, neither of the bow, nor of the quiver filled with poisoned arrows. It seems to be written for Senator Salvini, a great teacher in sowing political poisons. But in a rule of law, as we are, there is always a time when law prevails over poisons and propaganda. As Aldo Moro said in fact: "beyond opportunistic cynicism," "a moral law, whole, without compromise," finally has to assert and dominate politics." A moral law for politics. These are the strong reasons that are under the vote that we are called to give today, and that is why I shall vote in favour of the authorization to proceed with Senator Salvini. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Balboni. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u25	Mr President, as many of my fellow Members mentioned before, this is the third time we have dealt essentially with the same issue (Diciotti, Gregoretti and today Open Arms), but in the end, although with certain peculiarities and specific features, that is always the subject. The majority say that it is not up to the Senate to stand up to judge and determine whether there has been or has not been a crime in the behaviour of Minister Salvini. Mrs Bonino says that it is not us who must become a shield from the trial for Senator Salvini. Well, ladies and gentlemen, that is not the case, because we also have a judicial function at the moment. It is true that it is not up to us to judge whether a crime has been committed or not, but it is certainly up to the Senate to determine whether there is or does not exist the eminently special rule of constitutional law. And only we can judge on this exilely special. The ordinary judiciary cannot enter into the substance of this specific question on which, I repeat, the Senate must rule by exercising a judicial function. We're judges right now. [[Applause]] ; Even if we speak of politics, we are judges and we must determine whether there is or does not exist the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest in the function of government exercised by Minister Salvini when he made his decisions. Members of the majority say that the preeminent public interest was not there and I can understand them: those who deny the value of national identity, security and borders, those who want a world without borders, in which we are all consumers, without identity, without culture and without specificity, I can understand that they do not understand the value of a preeminent national interest in defending borders from an invasion [[Applause]] It is the invasion that Italy has been abandoned for years and years by Europe, which pretends solidarity, but leaves us alone to face this tide of "refugees." But are we kidding ourselves, my colleagues in the majority? But what refugees? The other day one landed even with the poodle, as if to say: I like Italy, I return, even if I have the decree of expulsion, so I have the hotel for free and everything I need; they return me sooner or later for free and then I return. Perhaps at most 5% of those who arrive on our coasts are really refugees: all the others are economic migrants, at best, because, within that mass of desperate, there are also the criminals, the exponents of the Nigerian mafia and there are also the victims, of which you beautiful souls of the left, when you discuss these matters, you always forget [[Applause]] : there are girls destined for prostitution, there are young people destined for drug dealing and well-nerbored guys destined to manage the plazas of the drug dealing on behalf of African mafias and away from this step, but all this is not necessary and cannot be talked about. If, however, the preeminent public interest is not here, I would say the absolute national interest, where is it? But how can one deny that the mass of desperate people who arrive in Italy and who we welcome with open arms, in the end, at best, becomes the object of exploitation of black labour, therefore unfair competition against workers and honest entrepreneurs? How can one deny that it becomes labour for crime, that it becomes the object of exploitation of prostitution goes to fill our prisons and competes with Italians who have the right to minimal assistance (which is taken from him by those who are not entitled because being a refugee does not have the right to be on national soil)? [[Applause]] How can one deny that there is a national interest here and not just a public interest? Yet, by ideology you deny it, because you have not lost the ancient habit of bringing down the opponent by judicial means, when you cannot bring him down politically. [[Applause]] This is the real debate we are having today, which has nothing to do with the judicial function that we should have. I listened to Senator Renzi, who is gone: he made his show and left, after telling us about his foundation. [[Applause]] We are a judicial assembly and we have come to talk about the foundation: it has gone a bit out of the question. In fifth grade they would fail him and make him repeat the year; from us you can afford to say what you want. Senator Renzi says he doesn't stop immigration by keeping a boat in the middle of the sea. But, dear Senator Renzi, look at the data belie you. When Minister Salvini, with his limitations, tried to keep the wave of invasion away from our coasts, in a year 3,000-3,500 migrants landed: today we are four times more. It must be said that Minister Salvini was far-sighted when he said: "Warning" (in fact, Minister Salvini did not say so, but the National Committee for Order and Security, already on June 13, 2019). He said to be careful because in the midst of that mass of desperate people there were not only the people I've been talking about until now but there could be terrorists. And then it turned out that there were terrorists. Especially today we are looking at another issue, which really has to alarm us: in the midst of this new mass of migrants coming, there are unfortunately many positive people at Covid-19, hundreds and hundreds landing. [[Comments]] Hundreds certainly, official data: at least 600 positives so far established. [[Comments.]] At least 600 positives so far confirmed! If the colleague wants to host them in his municipality, I think he will find some objections from his fellow citizens too. Well these people land and then they are let go; they are let go and they do not know where they go. Isn't there a danger to public health in this case? He's not here. There isn't, because by ideology you want to deny it. That's the only reason he's not here. [[Applause]] But Minister Lamorgese (who, if I am not mistaken, is Minister of the Interior and some competence and some power might have them in this matter) says that the situation of landings is unacceptable. That's what the Interior Minister Lamorgese says. If it is then unacceptable today, was it not when Minister Salvini did what he did to defend national borders? In fact, as I have said several times in this House and I repeat, Senator Salvini, you could have done one more thing, in our opinion, and that is what should be done today: a real naval blockade, to prevent these people from coming. [[Applause]] But also to prevent the boatmen from exploiting it and to avoid the dead at sea. In fact, the only way to avoid the dead at sea is to prevent them from leaving, not blocking them halfway or blocking the Italian ports: to prevent them from moving from the ports of Africa. This really had to be done. But I do understand that, with the throbbing majority of that time, it would have been impossible to achieve such a thing. But today Minister Lamorgese says that we will put ships in the middle of the sea and put migrants there. So let me understand: if Minister Lamorgese puts them there on the ships in the middle of the sea, is it okay and if, instead, Minister Salvini was blocking them? [[Applause]] Honestly, I'm waiting for someone to explain it to me. [[Applause. Comments]] PRAYER. President, keep this House quiet.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u26	I think I've always kept her quiet, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u27	He's enlisted to speak Senator Grasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time in less than two years that the Senate has been asked to assess an authorisation to proceed with Senator Salvini. There was the case Diciotti, then that of the ship Gregoretti and now the Assembly examines the events that involved the Open Arms in August last year. The crimes that have been contested by the prosecutor of the Republic are the seizure of a multiple person, aggravated by the fact that he has been committed by a public official, with abuse of the powers inherent in his duties, even in the detriment of minors, as well as the crime of refusal of legal acts. Once again - it should be remembered - we must not discuss the possible criminal responsibilities of the then Minister of the Interior, but only if his actions are attributable to one of the claims provided for by Constitutional Law No. 1 of 1989. The Senate must therefore decide whether Salvini acted to protect a constitutionally relevant State interest or to pursue a pre-eminent public interest. We have heard President Gasparri's report, on which we voted against in the Junta, and others have already reconstructed in detail the chain of events that took place between 1 and 20 August. For this reason, I will concentrate only on those crucial elements which, in my opinion, clearly qualify the actions of the former - by his choice - Minister of the Interior, for the purposes of the judgment to which the Senate is called. Firstly, it is appropriate to reflect on the prohibition of entry imposed on the Open Arms by interministerial decree of the Ministers of the interior, the defense and the transports. This measure, which is based on the security decree - bis, theorized a hypothesis of non-inoffensive passage of the Open Arms and referred to a general danger of a terrorist nature for our country. The lawyers of the Spanish NGO submitted an urgent appeal to the TAR, which was accepted on 14 August and which suspended the effects of the interministerial measure in a precautionary manner. In no way does it appear - as the then Minister Salvini argued - that the TAR partially accepted the appeal of the Open Arms. In the explanatory statement, however, the hypothesis of non-inoffensive passage that had been placed at the basis of the interministerial decree is rejected and a situation of exceptional gravity and urgency on board the Open Arms, which alone justified the entry of the same in the territorial waters of the Country. Should interpretative doubts arise, it should be recalled that, following the decision of the TAR, the proposal of the Minister of the Interior to arrange for a second measure did not receive the indispensable support of the other Ministers. From this one can easily be deduced how, since there is no agreement between the competent Ministers, one certainly cannot qualify as an act of government the subsequent activity of Minister Salvini who worked in relation to his duties as Minister of the Interior. From the moment in which the prohibition of entry imposed to the Open Arms is suspended on 14 August and the ship makes its own entry in our territorial waters, it is irrefutable that Italy has the obligation of the release of the POS, of the indication of the safe place to dock. It is a due act for which the Minister of the Interior is solely responsible. It is good to remember that it was the Minister of the Interior who, in the technical table of coordination of the fight against illegal immigration by sea, on 12 February 2019 decided to remove the competence of the head of the Department of Civil Liberties and Immigration and entrust it - happens - to the head of cabinet of the Minister, directly dependent on Salvini himself. The intention was clear: to use the indication of the POS as a political instrument, which clearly runs counter to international law, which instead qualifies it as the final act due to any rescue operation at sea. Even for this consideration it is absolutely not acceptable the position supported by Salvini and Gasparri, who consider instead the collegial responsibility of the Government to justify the pre-eminent public interest. In this regard, it is useful to briefly retrace the correspondence between the President of the Council and the Minister for the Interior during those days. On 14 August, President Conte, having received information confirming the presence on board of dozens of minors in emergency and life-threatening conditions, invited the Minister of the Interior to take the necessary measures as a matter of urgency to ensure their assistance and protection, as provided for by the international norms to which Italy was unified and unified. Be careful, this is an activity independent of the indication of the POS for the other shipwrecked. The following day Minister Salvini basically observed that they were presumed unaccompanied minors and, moreover, that, not being present on the national territory, since the ship was not at the time of the note of 14 August in territorial waters, the competence to protect them was, if anything, the responsibility of Spain, as the flag State of the Open Arms. The following day President Conte sent Salvini another note in which he strongly deviated from the considerations on the presumption of custody of minors to other migrants present on the ship and in which he demonstrated the opposition to the thesis of Minister Salvini. In the same note, the Premier pointed out that the legal, as well as humanitarian, issue of authorisation for the immediate landing of minors was indisputable regardless of redistribution to other European States. However, President Conte pointed out that France, Germany, Luxembourg, Portugal, Romania and Spain had already shown their willingness to share the hospitality of all persons on board. Therefore, indirectly, President Conte pointed out that those new conditions for the release of the POS agreed at the technical table on the fight against illegal immigration had also occurred and that they included amendments to the SOP directive 009/15, in the sense that the POS could be released only after the opening of negotiations for the distribution of migrants between European countries. In other words, since there was the availability of European countries there was no reason to prevent the landing. On 17 August alone, Salvini gave in and made the children land "his own despite" and made it clear in writing to the President of the Council of Ministers that he did not share the reasons and responsibilities of the landing. In the communications between the two, it is clear that the President of the Council of Ministers has intervened without any replacement of the Minister and to remedy the obvious failure of his Minister of the Interior. Therefore, no collegiality, but the solitary action of the Minister who has transformed a due act (such as the landing of minors), provided for by international conventions, into an instrument - also this - of combating immigration, moreover subordinate to redistribution at European level. Finally, it is appropriate to reflect on the position of the commander of the Open Arms. As you know, the master of a ship has specific duties and responsibilities, as provided for in Article 295 of the Navigation Code, among which the protection of order and safety on board is of particular importance. In those days the Open Arms arrived to accommodate more than 160 people on board, between crew and shipwrecked, and in difficult weather conditions. The tension on board was very high and there was even fear of a revolt. On several occasions five shipwrecked even tried to swim to the coast, endangering their lives. It is in this difficult context that the commander is convinced that he cannot guarantee safety on board if the shipwrecks saved in the third SAR event were landed preferentially in Malta. It is difficult, in fact, to imagine that others who have been at the mercy of waves for several days would have understood the difference of treatment, also in view of the fear of being repatriated to Libyan detention centers and perhaps made subject to firearms. The same applies to the refused proposal to continue shipping to Spain. The Open Arms was not equipped at all to continue safely the journey and the people on board were now exhausted. As the third criminal section of the Supreme Court of Cassation has well argued in the judgment of 16 January 2020, n. 6626, in fact, the obligation to provide assistance dictated by the International Convention on Search and Maritime Rescue signed in Hamburg does not end in the act of subtracting the shipwrecked to the danger of getting lost at sea, but involves the ancillary and consequent obligation to land them in a safe place, in the so-called place of safety (POS). For all these reasons, I believe that this House should not confirm the direction of the Council of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and allow the judiciary to proceed against Minister Salvini. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u29	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, President Grasso has made a number of very good points and I would like to take up some of them again. However, listening to the speeches during the morning I would have changed the order of the arguments and, instead of speaking first of all of the reason of state, on which I will dwell, I would start from the title of this day and of our reflections, which is the following: Are people tools or are they fine? People have ended according to our Constitution, but even before that, according to our humanity, according to our Christian roots. In fact, the Constitution cannot be invoked in alternate phases, but neither can Christendom, who, dear colleagues, regardless of faith, is a culture of which we are permeated. So are people tools or are they finished? I've heard about border defense and everything else, but if people aren't tools and they're finished, I wonder what we're talking about here today. We continue to confront the defense of the borders when the fact with which we confront ourselves is that there were people rescued at sea, shipwrecked asylum seekers and rescue seekers who were entitled to the completion of the rescue. We decide how to write this point and see it immediately. For convenience I think it's right to remember some irrefutable facts and challenge some falsehoods and some fake news. First of all, being now in the third episode, even unintentionally many things we have all learned. So it is peaceful that there is binding international legislation, which is the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and is there binding national legislation that is the Constitution? Yes. Is it common ground that unaccompanied minors, even more than adults, must be protected and landed under Law No. 47 of 2017, the so-called Zampa law and it is also peaceful that they were landed because there was a request from the Republic's Public Prosecutor who would otherwise intervene? Yes. Is it peaceful that it was up to Malta to intervene, but it did not do so as in other situations, and that is shameful? Yes. Finally, is it peaceful that it was for Italy to help, at least since August 14, as a binding norm? Yes. I would now like to talk about migrants, because the actual situation on board must be remembered. We are talking about a boat that, at the limit, could help and not accommodate and in this case it hosted more than 150 people (while it was approved for 19), with a crew now exhausted and with two Turkish baths on board indiscriminately intended for men and women in precarious health conditions, conditions not stated so by the partners of the left, but verified by the doctors who boarded and then verified also by the prosecutor of the Republic of Agrigento. That is, it was a massage of people in precarious health conditions, among which - just by way of example - there was a woman with severe burns and a man with a bullet in her foot. However, it was said that the main life - threatening reliefs had still been insured. The discourse is always that: what are people and what is the measure of judgment of the sufferings that can be inflicted. And then we'll see the reason for the state. Is there a measure? And what does that depend on? From citizenship? From the conditions? Or isn't the measure of suffering the same for all people? Or maybe there is someone who can make you suffer a little more? That's what you're saying. The situation was exasperated to the point that the only idea of being brought back to Libya - because we are talking about this - some jumped into the sea not knowing how to swim. The weather conditions were disastrous and, when we discuss where they could go - then we'll see if they could - what are we talking about? From August 14 the weather conditions were so disastrous that the admiral chief of the harbor captains writes to the chief of cabinet saying that he had personally authorized the proximity and anchoring to Lampedusa because the weather conditions were prohibitive and would not have authorized other ports because there was danger. I address above all to lovers - so to speak - of military uniforms, which cannot be worn in alternating currents. Also within the framework of our Navy there is a noble tradition on the rescue at sea, that prevails over everything, even the defeated enemies: after they have sunk their ship, they go to rescue. And I say this if we want to recall some noble tradition, because Italy of noble traditions has many. We come to other matters. The commander of the Open Arms every day asked for directions on the safe landing place, the Place of Safety (POS), and immediately involved his own state of belonging, which he did not reply, until the date of August 18. Facts are not an independent variable. On 18 August the situation was seriously deteriorated and at that point, in worse conditions, with the persons on board the ship in serious physical condition, there was 590 miles from the legendary Algeciras; the commander of the Open Arms asked to be helped and rescued for transhipment on another boat. He asked for it personally. At this moment, however, I am not interested in discussing the conduct of the commander, and I say this only to make some order in the facts. Before we talk about state reasoning, I want to say one more thing about the TAR, because in a parajurisdictional context the documentation is also made up of legal facts, and here were said - excuse the term - nonsense. The TAR issues a precautionary measure that causes the decree prohibiting entry and disembarkation in the port to lapse. The judicial authority, precisely for the independence between politics and the judiciary, cannot impose and order to land, because that is the act of high administration of the Government and the Minister. It takes effect on your provision, and then it's you who has to provide for it. At that point, Minister Salvini tried to make another decree that - by chance - the Minister of Defence refused - in terms of the government's cooperation - to sign. On the other hand, in the idyllic correspondence of loving senses on government policies of that August 2019 I don't think it might seem strange. Even the issue of the TAR I would kindly invite to set aside and the defense of Open Arms demands a recurrence of it in order to have a further specification and an instrument, but this is part of the defensive issues and we do not care. Let us then turn to the reason of state. In the third report, despite the argumentative ability of our President of the Junta Gasparri, they had to make forcings and an effort to climb the mirrors that denote a weakness of the arguments. While in the first hypothesis on Diciotti it was argued that there had been a full sharing (in public statements), here we resort to an interesting institutional legal instrument, namely that, if there is not an explicit act that intervenes authoritatively on the Minister - who had also centralized on himself every measure and power with the famous security decrees - then there is sharing, which, moreover, I consider totally irrelevant and irrelevant, but I say it just to make some clarification. Then there's the other interesting prospect. It is said that it is not necessary for the public purpose to exist and to be assessed in its objectivity, but that the pursuit is sufficient. It's like putative self-defense, just to stay in familiar matters on this right. As with putative self-defense, the pursuit of the end is sufficient. But excuse me: do you mention a historical precedent of any kind - whether authoritarian or not - of a man of state, a king, a pharaoh or anything else who reports that something has been done to pursue a public purpose but not for the good of the people? Did anyone ever say they did it out of whim? Is it enough to state that the goal is the good of the nation and the defense of borders or should it be assessed whether there is an objective criterion? Otherwise, we're really joking. What, then, is the matter? The Constituents, looking at the primary good that is freedom, wanted to regulate precisely the relationship between the law that everyone must observe and that power of choice in the higher national interest, which only exceptionally allows to violate and bypass the limits. We have also seen it recently: some measures, which have somehow limited freedom, have been taken against thousands and thousands of deaths, because of a major national health problem. But in this case, who do you want to defend yourself from? Considering that, however, there would have been the redistribution of migrants - as has been said - having been agreed and having taken steps forward in Europe, in what, if not symbolically - and here come into play the different conceptions of the relationship between the state and the citizen, propaganda, populism and authoritarianism - would the borders have violated by completing the rescue? In what would they be a threat? Or perhaps it is hypocritical to say that in this way, before re-embarking, since he knows that he will suffer at least twenty days at 40 degrees in the shade, perhaps the migrant will reconsider? This is not the case, because those fleeing torture and despair may also face the risk of drowning and the 40 degrees in the shade. It is we who cannot bear to make him suffer such suffering. What's the state's reason? The question of immigration is purely incidental. It is not enough to say that there is a general political end and that by any means it can be achieved because then, if there is an industrial policy problem, a Board of Directors can be seized. For example, Mr Paragon, who has a conspiracy vision and also very hostile to all financial issues, would be entitled to seize the Board of Directors of a multinational company, because, if he announced it in the government programme and knew about it, who could tell him anything? Someone, then, who is in favour of the abolition of private property could legitimize a beautiful proletarian expropriation in some supermarket. The issue of immigration is totally incidental at this point. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to add one point: we are all called upon to put in place, as far as we are concerned, hoping for a constructive dialogue with the opposition as well, a real plan for managing migratory flows and the relief of asylum seekers; an accomplished plan that also sees Italy as the protagonist of the international scene. First the Italians does not mean the Italetta of cardboard tanks that counts nothing neither in Europe, nor in the world, but it means to know the international situation, to be protagonist and to compete also with the last events that are already different from those of two years ago, when the government was green yellow. But I want to conclude by recalling the following: 151 people, a badly burned woman, a man with a bullet in his foot, 13 of them jumped into the sea and could not swim. Senator Salvini, she often brands the rosary and Our Lady as an advertising brand and always does so in public, although prayer is often something very private. [[Comments]] I want to ask her, and I want to ask all of you if we've ever wondered what little prayer there was for that man who had the bullet in his foot, for those women who were raped, for those who fled from torture. [[Applause and protests]] What soft prayer, what state, what freedom, what hypocrisy... [[Happy protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u31	Colleagues, let me finish.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u32	Mr Rossomando (PD). ...in saying that you even want to face the hullers, when you face helpless people, wounds in the body and soul? [[Protests]] You're looking at these people, not at the boatmen! In order to face the hullists we must question national and international relations and go and discuss with Orban! That is the courage that is asked to those who want to defend the Italians and to those who legitimately want to pray for a better world. [[Applause and protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u33	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Gasparri, today we have had a great deal of discussion, touching on two aspects, which I would like to mention. One is legal and concerns what the Senate has to do and the other is more political. I think we could have skipped a lot of evaluations if we had also taken a look at the arguments that were produced in the application for permission to proceed by the judiciary. In fact, reading those 100 and more pages, we will see how a sort of clipping operation has been done, to try to define punctually, with the chisel, what can be conceived as a public interest and as a function of Government. In a simpler way, in my land it would seem that they sewed the dress on. In other words, an ex post judgment was carried out, on the basis of facts judged after and with a meter of jurisprudential interpretation, which served to identify the act not put in place, i.e. the omission of Minister Salvini, according to the request for authorization to proceed. So it has been practically described in this way, with this operation that I call cutting - and then I will explain why - the preeminent public interest in the exercise of the function of government. The judiciary, however, on page 47 of its file is contradicted, or rather intertwined in its clipping operation when it expresses itself on the first contact of the ship, or on the choice made on the basis of the flag of the ship. It says, in essence, that there is no unanimity of views, because one can choose as safe port that of the first contact, or that indicated by the flag of the ship. It is usually believed that, if it is the first contact, non-governmental organisations (NGOs) are encouraged; while the identification of the flag favours cooperation between States for the protection of persons. It is - in my opinion - the public interest and the function of government, without even doing so long, because they have practically indicated them to us, but doing some stunts: this was done by the Interior Minister Salvini in those circumstances. The public interest was aimed at finding cooperation between States for the protection and protection of those who are inviolable rights. Therefore, there was no omission; on the contrary, always in the authorization to proceed, it is clear that the Minister was engaged in the tables precisely to find a solution. To what has already been explained, that I fully share, in the clear and clear report also from a legal point of view of President Gasparri, I add only one question that we have checked: when we talk about the question of the collegiality of the act - even if someone said it was an act only of Salvini, someone of Count or that other - a fact that cannot be forgotten is that the appeal of the order of the TAR was signed by all the Ministers: Ministers for the Interior, Defence and Infrastructure and Transport. So, it was unequivocally an act of a collegiate nature. [[Applause]] There's no need to look. Having said that, however, I would like to focus now on some issues which do not concern the eminently legal part and the function that we must play. I believe - as I said - that the two aspects - the public interest, which consists of cooperation between States when there are migrants to be placed, and the act of appeal signed by the other Ministers - are exhaustive from a legal point of view. The proof of this is what the Foreign Minister and Minister Lamorgese say about the Republic today: it is necessary for States to help us, or just think about what happened with Ocean Viking, a ship left to roam around the seas for ten days. In that case, however, since the minister was Lamorgese, there were absolutely no positions. [[Applause.]] We forgot that. That doesn't exist. That said, there is a political issue. It is true - as my colleagues have said - that this is the third time we have dealt with the issue of what Salvini did when he was Minister of the Interior. It is a kind of subscription, of cutting, but in this case, the coupon has some differences compared to the previous ones. The fundamental difference - in my opinion - is the issue that broke out with reference to the famous chats of Palamara that nobody wants to talk about. [[Applause.]] We are faced with a situation that would frankly scare me. But why don't I get scared? I am not afraid because, since 1995 (but we can safely quote 1994), I have witnessed a political persecution of an extreme heaviness. What I am very sorry about is that what happened to our President, testified, among other things, by the latest facts that have emerged, did not teach anyone how serious judicial persecution can be; he did not teach anyone. [[Applause]] I'm not here to listen to someone who says it touches everyone: you had to think about it long before, when the warranty notices arrived in full G7 or G8. Those were alarming elements. Today, however, we are lucky - or lucky, I don't know - because there are photographs of what they have actually said or have said certain magistrates. Of course, I have the utmost respect for the judiciary, and I am sure that there is only one more side to it. But this does not mean that there is a political responsibility on our shoulders: the framework that has emerged, which has not yet been implemented by politicians and parliamentarians, I think is very serious. Today I believe that we are witnessing for the umpteenth time facts that have been built - just see the authorization to proceed - because somehow it had to be put under trial Salvini (of course must be put under trial the winning opponent in turn). Allow me to conclude with one final remark. The issue of migrants in this country is not only a public interest, but it is also a serious social and economic alarm that affects people. In my small region they took them sneaky, without warning the mayors, and they even made them escape; it happened to Gualdo Cattaneo and it happened in other municipalities. All this has created incredible alarms. The solution to this conflict today means giving answers of certainty and tranquility to the country, which no longer accepts to see limited freedoms only to some and not to others. I believe that this is a political duty and today's opportunity gives us the opportunity to remind us all of this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u35	Senator Salvini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u36	Mr President, first of all, I would like to address our forces of order, which, even in these minutes, are struggling to defend the borders. In fact, they enlisted to defend the borders and not to act as taxi drivers to guys with hats, mobile phones and poodles. I thank the Coast Guard for what they do. I hope I can get ten minutes of attention. It has already been understood that the vote is political. However, let us try to get to the bottom of it. I thank the government for its abundant presence. [[Applause]] It was not due, but, if the form is substantial, I would like to thank the empty benches of the Government, which show respect for this House. I note the abundant presence of the senators for life and I reaffirm the idea that this is a widely surpassed figure in our institutions. [[Applause]] I notice that no one from the Movimento 5 Stars has intervened, and this clearly underlines the embarrassment. But I have to say, I prefer the nice movemo 5 Star tacer to Renzi's free supercrazzos and company. ( [[Applause]] ). I say this with all due respect for Ugo Tognazzi and my friends, who are more serious than some senator present in this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u37	The terminology "supercazzola" is, perhaps, better to keep it aside. There are some more appropriate synonyms to this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u38	SALVINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). All right, let's add another process: one more, one less. It is sad to see Senator Renzi go from having De Gasperi as a model to acting like an ordinary Sciliopti, but everyone chooses the destiny that awaits him. ( [[Applause).]] Let's get to the bottom of this. I support the initiative announced a few minutes ago by the mayor of Treviso, Mario Conte, who will ask for damages to the Italian Government because 129 immigrants present in the barracks of Treviso have turned out positive to Covid and Treviso is the first outbreak in Italy. Instead of extending emergency states in emergency shortage, avoid landing people who then bring the contagion around Italy. If the contagion starts again, we will denounce someone who has allowed Italy to take this risk. They chase the Italians with masks and then land hundreds of people potentially infected on the beaches damaging our tourism. According to Article 52 of the Constitution, the defence of the Homeland is the sacred duty of the citizen. ( [[Applause]] ). Of all this, the only thing I regret will be the fact that I have to explain tonight and tomorrow morning to my two children that Dad will go to trial not because he is a criminal, but because he simply did his duty as Minister and as a citizen of this Republic. I don't give a damn about political criticism; I'm a little more interested in having to answer my two children. And you have the responsibility for this explanation. I know it won't matter to you, but it's the only weight I really carry. I've heard so many unsubstantiated things. If I were to summarize for a third grade girl what happened, it's in the record. Missed President Grasso, it's in the record, it says. ( [[Applause]] ). It is a pirate ship that on 1 August gathers immigrants in Libyan waters and on 2 August gathers immigrants in Maltese waters. It is a ship that has the right to have 19 immigrants on board and that will come to have more than 150. If anyone has committed a crime and put people's lives at risk, he is the commander of that pirate ship and not a minister who has defended his country. On August 1st he is in Libya and August 2nd in Malta. Then we go in on "Pranks" apart from "Pranks." The ship requests a safe port in Malta and Spain. A Spanish ship in Maltese waters does not request a safe port from Finland, Venezuela or Italy. A Spanish ship asks Spain for a safe port and, as it is in Maltese waters, in Malta. Malta and Spain say: no, thank you; see you next time. On August 4, Malta says: not from us. On August 9 the commander of the pirate ship gathers 39 other immigrants in Maltese waters, putting at risk another 39 people. Malta says: at least these 39 I land them in Malta. He, however, says no and refuses. On 12 and 14 August the ship's commander wrote to the Spanish embassy in Malta. The Spanish ship writes to the Spanish ambassador in Malta. Italy has nothing to do with a dry fig. Again on 14 August, he repeated his request for a landing in Malta. Malta says, no, thank you. From 1st to 14th August, the ship roams the Mediterranean. We, who are ugly and bad, as the sea begins to get agitated, in front of the rough sea and a criminal commander aboard a pirate ship, say to enter our territorial waters until the storm passes, forbidding with the harbor captainship, which depended on another Minister, expressly entering the port. And at the same time, we bring down migrants in precarious medical conditions. On August 17, we send down twenty-seven presumed minors, nine of whom will then prove to be anything but minors. So the "sequestration" is abundant and the President-in-Office of the Council is obviously absolutely complicit in this possible crime, which does not exist. On August 18 we really arrive to the surreal: after eighteen days Spain wakes up and makes available a Spanish port. The commander of the pirate ship thinks a little bit about it and says it's too far away. On August 19, Spain offers a closer port to the Balearic Islands: beautiful, welcoming, holiday resorts. The commander thinks about it and says no to the Balearics. On 20 August, in full "sequestrian," Spain sent a ship to welcome immigrants to Italy and bring them to Spain: no to this too. On 19 August, in full theoretical seizure, former Minister Toninelli, currently Senator, gave an interview to the Republic of: The migrants we take to Spain with the Coast Guard. No, this one, too. It was clear that it was not a shipwreck, but a deliberate invasion of the field and a deliberate violation of the law. [[Applause.]] But so does a six-year-old. [[Applause.]] I say this with the utmost tranquility: if a man is not willing to fight for his ideas and defend his ideas to the end, or his ideas are worth nothing or he is worth nothing. And I'm gonna go through with it without asking anyone for help. [[Applause.]] Frontex numbers say that, after our dangerous Government, the only country in which landings have multiplied this year is Italy: half-landings in Greece, half-landings in Malta, half-landings in Spain, threefold landings in Italy. Therefore, someone will have to pay and I do not say judicially, because the difference in culture between a liberal democrat and someone who looks left is that we counter ideas with other ideas [[Applause]] , and not the courts or political processes. I repeat: let us contrast ideas with other ideas. [[Applause]] I have fought and will fight the wrong policies of Monti, Fornero, Renzi and Azzolina, but I will never bring them before a court of law. The only court is that of the people [[Applause]] , of the vote of the citizens, of the voters. That's how democracy should work. [[Applause]] I'm going to conclude. I would point out that, among the poor shipwrecked who have landed this year, the two main nationalities are Tunisia, with more than 5,000 arrivals, and the Bengali one, with 2,000 arrivals. Or something has happened that only Prime Minister Conte is aware of and concerns war events in Tunisia and Bangladesh [[Applause),]] or it is simply an economic migration that, in a moment of crisis that enters millions of homes of Italian citizens, convinces me even more that it is first a duty to help Italian citizens and then to take care of the rest of the world. [[Applause]] First I have no right, but the duty to find a home, a job and a place in the hospital to my fellow citizens, who pay my salary. I could go on for a long time. Anyway, I'm coming home tonight with my head up, with a trial, but with my head up. [[Applause]] I know, because some of you tell me in the hallways, they tell me at the buvette, they text me: "Matthew, you're right, but the party's indication is this." I'm interested in text messages or aisle chatter as much as zero. I care less about justice at the Palamara than zero. [[Applause]] I look at the facts. I go quietly to those courts: I already have the first appointment on October 3, in Catania, while the other will be in Palermo and it will be a joy for me to go to the beautiful land of Sicily to mark my right and duty to defend the beauty of our land. I am sure that the vast majority of the judiciary is made up of healthy, honest and free people who do not spend time at dinner with left-wing parliamentarians to share seats in the Supreme Council of the judiciary or in some prosecutor's office. We'll leave that to you. [[Applause]] Remembering that, not a sovereignist, but Einaudi said that, when politics enters into justice, justice comes out of the window, this country, without a deep and sound reform of justice, with a separation of careers, with short-term trials and with responsibility for those who err in the hands of citizens, will never be free, modern and European. [[Applause]] Thank you for your choice, which goes beyond reality, dates, facts and evidence, because it gives me even more strength, more energy and more desire to reaffirm the right-duty to love our country. If anyone thinks or thinks - I have also heard the speeches this morning - of putting fear to me, to the center-right and to my movement with yet another political process, I tell you that you have really wrong people and party: give me, if anything, more strength and more conviction in defending our ideas [[Applause]] And any reference to the political process against Lombardy and the Lombards, ignoring what happened in Rome and Lazio, is purely wanted. On the one hand, we investigate a donation and, on the other, we pretend nothing out of 14 million euros paid public for masks never arrived, but time is gallant man. [[Applause]] I can tell you, and I conclude well knowing what the verdict of this House will be, that we will find ourselves in six months, one year, ten years. Today we are sending Salvini to trial, a political process: it seems absolutely obvious to me. Tomorrow - I tell you before - because the wheel turns, when it is up to some of you - because it is up to some of you - the League will stand on the side of the guarantees and freedom of Parliament and of the citizens. [[Applause]] We will not send you to a courtroom: it will be the citizens who judge you, and not the judges. It will happen to some of you and the League will stand on the side of freedom and guarantees, and not with chatter, but with facts, with vows, with high heads, with straight backs. [[Applause]] So thanking you for what is clearly a political process, I also thank the millions of Italians - the silent, industrious and hardworking majority - who are calling for useful, limited, positive, controlled and qualified immigration. My pride as Minister, a kidnapper for someone, is that, thanks to the control of illegal immigration, we have more than halved the dead in the Mediterranean Sea. [[Applause]] Open harbour fans have blood on their hands and have turned the Mediterranean into a mass grave. So I can tell you, with serenity, joy and tranquility, remembering a great Italian to whom I would not even be worthy to tie the shoes, that "he who is afraid dies every day, who is not afraid dies only once." I am proud to represent, with all my faults and my own, Italy that has brought art, beauty and culture into the world, that is not afraid and wants its history, its borders, its honour and its dignity to be defended. Long live Italy. Long live freedom. Long live democracy! [[Applause]] Thank you to all those who will send me to trial, because they give me a great gift. In that courtroom, unlike most, I go head-to-head with my back straight. [[Very lively, prolonged applause. Congratulations very much. Burst diffused and persistent. Reiterate protests. Senator Biti's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u39	Senator Biti, I've never interrupted the applause, wherever they come from, and you know that. The debate is closed. [[Intense applause. Liveful and repeated comments.]] Senator Lucidi, don't film with cameras: you can't do it, I say it every time. [[Persistent applause. General comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u40	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u41	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u42	MORONESE (M5S). Forgive me, Mr President, just one second, because I think it must be pointed out that, repeatedly, when you speak... [[Very lively, persistent applause. General protests]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u43	I don't feel anything. Please, ladies and gentlemen, we must continue the sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u44	Senator Moronese, what are you intervening on? MORONESE (M5S). Very simply, Mr President, I allow myself to speak because Senator Lucidi usually takes up and directs. [[Reiterate protests.]] Since this isn't the first time...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u45	Senator Moronese, I already said, maybe she was distracted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u46	I call the rapporteur, Senator Gasparri.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u47	Mr President, I should like to make a few simple points. [[Liveful and repetitive comments. Call the president back.]] I have dealt with this issue, as it was and as it is my duty, as rapporteur and President of the Council, in legal terms. I see that the debate has been very political, but I am not surprised, because I consider myself a political militant, first of all: this is the Senate, a democratic and political Assembly, so I understand, even if I have avoided political arguments. This morning, out of curiosity, I went to look at Dr. Palamara's statements that Salvini, even if he is right, must be attacked on migrants (this is how he replied to another magistrate, Auriemma). All of this is not part of our decision - or rather, it should not - which must be based on the facts and on the application or otherwise of Law No 1 of 1989. Senator De Falco, it is not a caste affair - I think he used this term, but I use his quote in general as a pretext to introduce the subject caste and law - because we are talking about the application of a law that allows in absolute, to those who carry out functions of government, not to go to trial, if certain issues arise. On this we are gathered today, then the rest we discuss every day (the immigration policy, justice and politics; issues that are daily bread). The 1989 law, adopted in distant times - I do not even know who was physically in Parliament in those years - is not a law to favour some castes, but to allow government actions to take place, in the presence of certain requirements, without preventing the judiciary from assuming judicial action against anyone in the government, but only to subject any judicial action to a procedure. However, even if Parliament rejected my report, it did not say that there would be any action, because here we are always in the process; the judiciary could decide whether to make a referral to trial or not and, in that case, decide how to judge, and so on. Law No. 1 of 1989 entrusts Parliament with an assessment of the presence of claims, but not the ordinary ones of Article 51 of the penal code (when any citizen prevents a fact, such as aggression, violence or murder, even committing in turn an act of force, in which case there is a complaint, because he did a useful action, having prevented a greater damage, pushing another person, punching her or saving someone). In this case, we are in another situation: we discuss whether the government action was such and had as its objective a public interest. At this time of reply, I will not repeat what you find written on pages 12, 13 and 14 of the report, which - I am sure - you will all have read, studied and examined (although perhaps not). In fact, in the report, it is explained - as I said this morning and before that, in Junta, where we have been talking about it for months - that these requirements are fulfilled. I also want to say to Senator Grasso, who reiterated that this was a solitary action by the then Minister of the Interior, that it is not true what he said: you can express opinions, but do not make statements out of reality. In the report and in the reality of the facts - you are a very authoritative member of the Junta, Senator Grasso - there are the letters of President Conte and all the references to the interministerial decree: the truth of the facts is that it was an action widely shared by the Government, in a detailed, motivated and addressed manner. [[Applause.]] Then, for political reasons, everyone can vote for what they want; this is a free assembly and our vote is inevitable. Someone might want to review the vote, too, sooner or later, since this came up, too. Everyone makes use of the political freedom to vote as he wishes, in my opinion in a manner different from the facts, but it is not forbidden. I do not hope so, but it is not forbidden. There has therefore been an action not solitary, but of government, and there has been an emergency and a problem that I am not here to repeat, with all the events on the security and the policy of migratory flows that I see re-emerge in these days, with escapes of debate and controversy. In fact, it is a recurring problem, with which Italy and the world make accounts and the various governments - whatever their compositions - must be measured, sometimes changing opinions, because they are called to some evidence. I repeat that the action has certainly been of government and inspired by higher interests, problems of security and containment of migratory flows and all the various concerns that are being repeated in the country. Then the virus's emergency probably wasn't there, but who knows that it wasn't already traveling (yet you haven't historically understood everything that happened, it will take time). Today there is an attack, but I will talk about it on another occasion, when I will speak not as rapporteur, about the problem of infection and anything else, about Palamara and the political use of justice, which perhaps even today finds another small chapter of the Senate's political use of a judicial procedure. I remain very convinced of what I have proposed to this House and I hope that the vote will be in favour. I listened to Senator Renzi's speech, who put a theme of justice and politics. This is an opportunity for everyone, across the board, to reaffirm that one thing is to govern one country and another the political use of justice: to renounce it is a serious mistake for Parliament and all the groups, because it allows to restore a principle of legality and democratic sovereignty. [[Applause]] ; not the sovereignism of the rallies, but popular sovereignty, that of the Constitution (because the word "sovereignty" is also written in the Constitution, it is not a swear word). I confirm my arguments; they did not convince me of the criticisms, to some of which I replied. The debate will continue and I hope that the Senate will vote in favour of the proposal contained in the report, as it would be a gesture of wisdom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u50	LUCIDES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I apologise for the previous episode and understand that it was a moment of euphoria, but I would like to reassure Senator Moronese, saying that I was simply trying to open a can of tuna. That's it. [[Applause. Comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u51	You only need to reassure me, Senator Lucidi.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u52	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u53	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u54	Balboni (FdI). Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking Senator Salvini, because his quote from Ezra Pound reminded me of the times when, as a young right-wing militant, I too opposed those who wanted to prevent me from speaking and expressing my ideas. [[Applause.]] We young people used this beautiful phrase of Ezra Pound, which - it seems incredible - after so many years is still current, because there are still those who think to shut their mouths to those who defend national identity and sovereignty, as we did then and as you did as Minister. We in the Fratelli d'Italia Group will vote in favour of the report by President Gasparri, convinced that there are very well-founded and also political legal reasons. Mr President, in particular I shall be voting in favour of the report by President Gasparri, because I fully agree with what the prosecutor of Viterbo, Dr. Paolo Auriemma, said in his famous interview with Dr. Palamara: I really don't see where Salvini is wrong. Illegally one tries to enter Italy and the Minister of the Interior intervenes, so that this does not happen. Clearer words could not be written. Palamara insists, saying it must be attacked anyway and the prosecutor of Viterbo replies: Inquired for not allowing entry to invaders. We are indefensible, says Dr. Auriemma, referring to the judiciary: "We are indefensible." If Viterbo's D.A. says so, I think we can say it too. [[Applause]] In fact, it's really about invasion. Some of my colleagues in the majority have previously insisted that the Open Arms vessel, like so many other NGO vessels sailing in the Mediterranean, has been rescued at sea against shipwrecks. Instead we are convinced that most of these ships and NGOs do not help at sea against shipwrecks, but carry out a sea taxi service between the shores of the Mediterranean, finding themselves - by chance - very often precisely where there are boats that suddenly are no longer able to navigate. No one wonders how and why they have arrived there, nor who has made sure that they arrive there and why there is always this coincidence between those who make them find in a place and those who then intervene to help these people, who, as I said in the general discussion, very often, almost always, are not refugees or run away from the war, but people seeking luck and better economic conditions, among which very often they nest criminals or unfortunately also people who will become the object of exploitation (between black work, prostitution and anything else). Well, we are convinced that defending national borders is always and in any case a due act, which all politics, right and left together, should exercise. I have said and I repeat that I am not surprised that from the left we want to deny the pursuit of a pre-eminent public interest, where the Minister has tried to defend national borders; this happens on the part of those who deny the very concept of national identity and borders and want there to be no borders and that everyone should be free to go where they want and do what they want to do, who care about the security and freedom of citizens for good. I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that, without security, there is no freedom and that those who put security at risk - as you are doing - endanger freedom. The work of Minister Salvini was not individual, as the rapporteur and Senator Salvini himself explained in his speech. It was a concerted work within the Government, widely shared by the President of the Council and the other ministers concerned, who issued the decree of August 1, according to which - I remind you - entry into Italian territorial waters was prohibited. We must say this and repeat to those who deny that there was a pursuit of the defence of legality in the work of the Minister. For all these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I think that today we will be rendering a service to justice, saying here that the Minister has acted in the function of government, in the national interest, the State and the public. For these reasons, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote strongly in favour of the report by President Gasparri. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u55	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u57	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are again, for the third time, deciding whether or not to authorise the trial against Matteo Salvini on a matter relating to the kidnapping of men, women and children on board a ship. These are facts dating back to a year ago, when the senator was Minister of the Republic, a task from which he decided to lift himself, to the relief of all of us and the country, in those same days of August. We can say that the Open Arms case is the song of the swan of a ministerial experience and a certain way of doing politics. I too believe in my ideas, and I, like the lacked Minister Salvini, will go all the way. As the third time, as I have just mentioned, and as I have already spoken both in this House and in the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, on this case and on the similar cases of the Diciotti and Gregoretti ships, I shall sum up as much as possible the technical and legal questions of the matter which each of us knows at this point. It is now clear to everyone the national and international regulatory framework of reference: the obligation to save the human life of those in danger at sea prevails over any other national norm or agreement aimed at combating immigration. It prevails, in addition to a normal and reasonable rule of civilization, because it is a principle that, in the hierarchy of sources, has a primary and therefore superior rank. Who defends Salvini speaks of a collegiate action of the Government and of a pre-eminent public interest. As I explained in the Junta and in general discussion, there was no collegiality, but the solitary action of the Minister - I repeat - that has transformed an act due, provided for in the International Conventions, into an instrument of contrast to immigration. I regret that at this very moment Senator Gasparri has left the Chamber with his mobile phone, because I would like to remind him that he probably did not follow my speech carefully, given what is different is the assistance of unaccompanied minors, to whom there is a duty of assistance, regardless of any POS and indication of landing place; therefore the situation of the other shipwrecked is different. If, therefore, President Conte's intervention was there, it was to restore national and international legality, compared to an action that was against minors and against international law. It is therefore certainly not an act of the Government. However, every action of a Minister must always and in any case take place within a framework of constitutional and international legality, so that it does not incur the danger that, by virtue of an alleged reason of state, the inviolable rights of man, which are therefore inescapable. I regret to repeat myself, but today too I want to stress that authorising the trial against Senator Salvini is of extreme and delicate importance. In fact, we must strongly reaffirm the principle, denied by this House on the Diciotti affair, whereby everyone is called upon to respond to the law when he deliberately decides to ignore it, especially for political and propaganda purposes. This conviction - and I say this also for the future - is in no way the result of ideological prejudice, as some have said, towards the person. On the contrary, what I support today and which I have supported on previous occasions, I will support it with the same strength in the future, if we ever find ourselves making the same decision on who holds or will hold the position of Minister of the Interior, because my choices are based on purely legal considerations and should be so for the Junta, which is a guarantee body. We have seen that this is not the case: this is demonstrated by the different results of the three authorizations to proceed against Salvini; this is demonstrated by the unconstitutional decision on the Sicilian seat assigned in Umbria; however, there is a case, that of the seats of Campania, which photographes the unacceptable attitude that, without distinction between majority and minority, goes through the politics of this period. The electoral law, which I did not share in the substance and method of approval, precisely defines the mechanisms for allocating seats. The first rapporteur of Forza Italia, Senator Malan, has rightly acknowledged that the seat is for Liberi and Uguali. With an interpretative force of the electoral law and the Constitution, however, we have been trying for months, for unknown reasons, to assign the seat to the claimant Lotito or perhaps confirm who can boast the last change of line. Returning to the Open Arms, it is necessary to make some considerations: the first concerns the decrees Salvini, which would be daring to define still security decrees, as its extensor would like. It is clear - and I have already said this in this House - that those rules are exclusively propagandistic and have not focused their objective, namely to lift former Minister Salvini from the consequences of his decisions. Meanwhile, the Constitutional Court, one sentence at a time, is dismantling them, supposing the inertia of the current majority. I call on my fellow Senators who support this Government to free the Supreme Court from this duty and to proceed, without further delay, to cancel the rules on immigration, if not for ethical and legal conviction, because they are obviously detrimental to the proper management of the migratory phenomenon and not only in the perspective of integration, but also in that of security. I would like to address my colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars: I know that you have voted in favour of both decrees, but it is time to take note of the mistake made and start an active repentance that restores a regulatory system worthy of a democracy accomplished, as we are. I also say this to my colleagues in the Democratic Party, whose line on the subject includes a range of positions that is far too broad. I say this to my colleagues in Italy Viva: beyond what the intellectuals mentioned by Senator Renzi think, I do not forget that the Mare Nostrum operation was cancelled by his Government. Saving people at sea is an obligation: on this the government or the political majority of the moment do not decide; the management of migrations, on the other hand, has to do with foreign policy, security and economic and labour policy choices, such as those of welfare. Now - and I say now - you have to change. This is one of the basic points of our loyal and far too patient participation in this majority. It is a political act, whose responsibility cannot and must not hypocritically fall on the only Minister Lamorgese, because it concerns the Government as a whole, all the political forces that are part of it and each deputy and majority senator. In conclusion, we have a duty to restore the principle of legality, authorising the trial - be careful: not the condemnation, but the trial - towards Senator Salvini. There is no sovereignism that can ignore respect for the Constitution, international treaties and laws. There is no first Italians who hold, without mentioning the diamonds in Tanzania, the graduation in Albania, the return of public funds in convenient ottantali installments and the money in Switzerland. We also have a political and moral duty to overcome the agreements with the Libyan Coast Guard, at the top of which we have seen ambiguous and former traffickers, such as the well-known Bija. It is two days ago the news of the three migrants killed and others injured by members of the Coast Guard, when, as soon as they get back on the ground, they tried to escape, so as not to be taken to detention centers. It seems clear to me that refinanceing the Libyan Coast Guard is all the opposite of what we have to do to solve the immigration problem. We have a political duty to cancel the Salvini decrees and finally end with a propaganda season, which continues, now with less success, in the most total political and institutional irresponsibility and even embraces the negationist theories of the Covid-19. Finally, we have a duty to establish, once and for all, what country we want to be and whether or not we are able to defend and pass on the values carved into the fundamental principles of our Constitution. For all these reasons, I declare the senators of the Free and Equal component voting against the report approved by the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u58	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u59	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u60	MIRABELLI (PD). Mr President, Senator Anna Rossomando, in her speech, has already explained a great deal of the reasons why we are going to vote against the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities and has already explained that our task today is not to decide whether or not to condemn Matteo Salvini for kidnapping multiple persons or refusal of office. That is a task for the judges, while we must decide whether, in the case of the Open Arms, the Minister of the Interior at that time has carried out acts justified by the pre-eminent public interest or not. For us, the answer is no, because the argument used in Mr Gasparri's report, namely the presence on board of terrorists, is not credible. If so, why did nothing happen after a year and there was no arrest or investigation that led to anything? Why? Where did this danger stand out? For us it is not even demonstrated - assuming that this could justify the decision to leave 160 people at sea for nineteen days - nor can it be demonstrated that there was a need to put pressure on Europe for the distribution of those people; indeed, it is shown that the willingness to accept, by several European countries, had already been obtained by the President-in-Office of the Council. We do not believe that the public interest is demonstrated, but, even if it is, I want to say very clearly that we do not think that it can justify the violations of human rights and individual freedoms and the suffering of those people, left for nineteen days on a ship, which saved them from shipwreck, but that it was not able to offer them the minimum acceptable conditions to guarantee health and life itself. We don't think there's any way we can justify what happened. There is no public interest that can justify those violations and the choice not to take care of people in difficulty. This has nothing to do with border control and immigration, or the need to call for a greater commitment than Europe: it has nothing to do with it! Maybe it has to do with propaganda and the need to show how true the thesis of the closure of the ports and to hide the futility of policies that showed to be fierce on the migrants and not on the scafists. Do You Remember? The end justifies the means. If we show the bad face of the country, no one will leave. It was useless to hide by demonstrating harshness and intransigence towards men and women saved from the sea, to whom inhuman treatment was reserved. To hide the failure of those policies: this was the purpose of that act. Senator Salvini, today, because it suits him, discovers what exactly a year ago he was told in this Chamber, while shaking his head denying, that while holding 160 people off Lampedusa hostage, at the same time, hundreds of people, every day, arrived there and on our coasts from Tunisia, simply because that country before was close to Italy, Lampedusa, as it is now. Salvini here denied and shook his head when we told him about the ghost landings. Today he discovers them and what happened a year ago is happening, with the difference that Minister Lamorgese, in order to stop these flows, went to Tunisia and increased the presence of the Forces of Order in Sicily, while a year ago he denied the existence of the problem, stating that it was enough to keep Open Arms at sea for nineteen days, to prove that he was able to combat immigration. Other than public interest: the real risk is to make propaganda on the skin of saved people. Mr President, I repeat that it is not up to us to say or decide whether Senator Salvini is guilty or innocent; it is up to us to allow the judiciary to decide, because no one is above the law and a democratic and guaranteeing state cannot fail to assess to the end whether the balance between public interest and individual rights has been exceeded or not. If Senator Salvini is convinced of his reasons, as he says, I think that, like the last time, he should return to the judgment of a court. I say this clearly, because there must be no victimism: we do not hope that Senator Salvini will be condemned; we are not those of throwing away the keys, easy handcuffs, or putting people in jail for anything. We hope that Senator Salvini will be acquitted, but we will continue to fight his idea of a country and his strong politics with the weak, who wants to shake the problems rather than solve them. Look, Senator Salvini, there is no judicial way we want to follow. We are not like you: we do not do summary justice; we do not use investigations as you do whenever you can. Have we forgotten Bibbiano, and Umbria, and how any news of crime that concerns a part other than one's own is being used? [[Applause]] All we are asking is for clarity and for the judges to be able to express themselves out of respect for the judiciary. Colleagues, you're not credible. It is true, suddenly the League, that of the noose and the handcuffs, in these years has converted to guarantee, but it has done so according to the situations, only when it suits. He stands to censor in front of every news of crime or suspicion that concerns others and then never feels the need to clarify vicissitudes that those who want to govern the public thing should clarify. They call themselves the 49 million (where are they?), talk about the funds from Russia, talk about the shirts, talk about tax havens. He can't handle it; no one can handle the conspiracy theory. We must respect the citizens. The very serious things that emerge from Palamara's interceptions must certainly be pursued. We need reforms and we are doing them; but no one can use them to delegitimize the judiciary or, better, to defend himself. The magistrates who do the investigations that don't like, they are always the ones who are crucified. And you can't even use them to never answer what concerns you, Senator Salvini, or your party. I believe, Senator Salvini, that you really owe something to the Italians. You should not offend, as you have done today, because you have offended the Senators of the Republic in this House, treating them with contempt and contempt. [[Applause]] Instead of telling everything, unless of the things you have to answer for, you would do better today to give answers to Italians on the issues that concern you, also on this issue, and to give explanations that also understand the six-year-olds, to whom you often address. Don't worry, Senator Stefani: we haven't chosen any judicial route. We want to fight you politically, showing that even the great problems such as immigration can be governed without ever losing sight of the rights and freedoms of people, simply by continuing to be human. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u61	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u62	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u63	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, it seems to me to relive an experience we experienced together in 2013, when, as today, a part of this Senate, ignoring and violating the law, applied a wrong sanction to President Berlusconi. By breaking the law! [[Applause]] I do not say this: the Court of Cassation said this in sections joined in June 2019. You said you couldn't evaluate constitutional issues, because the election committee was a parajurisdictional body and President Grasso agreed to a clear vote on these issues. We know very well that the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation have said that it is a constitutional court. Not only that. In the same case, you know well that you said that you cannot discuss the judgment of the Supreme Court. We all knew it was wrong. Do I say it? No, the Court of Cassation, eight months later, in March 2014. That judgment could not be applied because it had no principle of law. This is the same story we are witnessing today. Finally, Senator Mirabelli, it is not true that you want to put this matter back to the judiciary; it has nothing to do with it. By not judging today what you have to judge, it cannot be judged by anyone. The Constitutional Law of 1989 says that the Senate is responsible for that assessment, not for the judiciary. The judiciary will not be able to assess whether or not there is a public interest. You will not be able to evaluate it, Senator Mirabelli: this is a fundamental thing. And no one else can evaluate it. Once he gets out of this Chamber, there will be other assessments, but this cannot be evaluated by the judge. Why did the constitutional legislator attribute to the Senate and not to the judge the assessment of one exile, of a cause of justification like all the others? The performance of the duty is already foreseen and is what is judged by the ordinary judge. But here is the constitutional rule. I have heard some readings of incorrect judgments of the Court of Cassation, because the reading of the judgment of the Court of Cassation refers to the question of the protection of a constitutionally relevant State interest. Senator Gasparri's report does not take this into account and correctly says that it does not exist. On the other hand, the other is taken into account, namely the pursuit of a public interest in the exercise of the function of Government. Senator Rossomando, the prosecution speaks the law, not the report of Senator Gasparri. There's no way we can discuss self-defense. On the pursuit of the public interest, it is a question of assessing the public interest: is a government programme a public interest or not? ( [[Applause).]] Today we have a government that contradicts itself and, therefore, we cannot identify the public interest. You want to know why? The day before yesterday we voted for an extension of the state of emergency. In your opinion, is it possible to identify a public interest in maintaining elections on 20 September or voting on a constitutional reform? No, there is a contradiction in terms. In democracy, if there is a health emergency, no elections are held in any country in the world. True democracy is at the electoral stage, when people can participate, discuss, reason and participate in the political-administrative debate, but this will not be possible. This government has adopted issues that are totally in conflict with each other. During the first Count Government I was against it; read my speeches in the Chamber. I argued that immigration policy should be implemented through other channels and, in particular, it was necessary to identify a law that would allow legal entry into our country; it was necessary to save the norms that concerned asylum law and refugees, but it was necessary to establish rules that would not allow the entry of the whole world into our country and that, beyond the limits set by legal entry, it was not possible to accept everyone. This was part of the law made in the First Count Government. In that logic, there was also a part that concerned the blockade of ships. If I had been a lawyer, I would have wondered, but did this ship commander do it on purpose? Has it deliberately created a situation, as in other cases you have seen that the situation is created directly? ( [[Applause]] ). Otherwise, it's not possible. But what rescue at sea? President-in-Office of the Council. - (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the President-in-Office of the Council for his excellent report. There, however, it was not a rescue at sea, but a ship that was now quiet in a port. Senator Salvini reiterated this and we all know that in those fifteen days everyone was involved, but not Italy. So tell a lie. Senator Renzi said that we should not apply the Palamara thesis: but excuse me - Senator Cucca, I address you because Senator Renzi is not there - what is your behavior? Palamara and Auriemma agreed that Salvini had nothing to do with it; their assessment was that Salvini was innocent and that that law could not be applied. But they said, "Let's give it to him." And that's the logic you're reasoning with. Either you identify something that had to be done and that wasn't done, or, if I were the judge - I'm not the lawyer, but I'm not even the judge - I should question myself about why only Salvini and not Count are in front of me, and not the other ministers who signed with Salvini. But we are not faced with this activity. We exercise a function of our own, that of the member of the Senate who must assess whether or not there is one that cannot evaluate anyone else. And does the cause of justification exist or not? Yes, because there is a public interest. How can you say that there is no public interest once laws have been passed that bind everyone, that must guarantee the migratory flows and the security of our country. So much so that President Grasso, with his skill, to try to water down said that there was a general risk of terrorism. President Grasso, you remember, like me, the '70s, when we were talking about so-called Red Brigades. [[Applause.]] And after a few years we found ourselves with the dead on the street. Then the general risk of terrorism was not a general risk; we all know what happens and what brings us to our country. [[Applause.]] When there is an uncontrolled and uncontrolled migratory flow, we have these consequences. How do you want to break the law? Because your decision would be against the norm. Then who's playing it? The judge will not be able to do that, because this is our function. And those who refuse to do so fail their function. You are carrying out an activity that is against the senator's function, because you have no right or need not to pronounce. I appeal to Senator Perilli, whom I have always appreciated for the way of reasoning, and not because you voted in a certain way in the Diciotti case and in the Gregoretti case; this does not interest me. I only care about one thing in the first vote. Today, how can you fail to take into account the public interest that was the fruit of laws passed by you, not by me? Today I asked President Bernini to speak - and I thank her - simply to affirm principles and rules. Then I'm less interested in Salvini or others. I am interested in the respect of the rules that the Senate must have because, at the moment when this did not happen, we would be faced with the most complete anarchy, with the democracy that tramples on itself. At a time when the rules do not apply at the place and time when they are to be applied, it is the denial of the democratic state. And on this I believe that each of us must question ourselves. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u64	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u65	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u66	BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Senators and Senators, let us start with a question: why were these three requests for authorization to proceed on manifestly collegial matters, and in all three questions are only asked to try Salvini? [[Applause.]] In the Diciotti case - I don't know if anyone remembers it - the Premier and some of the competent ministers even decided to present memoirs to say that they had participated collectively in the events and to feel like marrying Salvini's work, as if to say: Let us also process it. In the other two cases there were no similar memoirs, but there are extensive public statements, which I also mentioned in the previous speech. Still, nothing. I do not have a technical answer, as a criminalist, because the contest in the crime is there whenever more people share, regardless of the role each one has. Then I ask myself another question. Just now Salvini said: "I know, here you have decided to vote against me." I would therefore ask what the outcome of the vote would have been today if the request for permission to proceed, as well as Salvini, had included Count and the other competent Ministers. [[Applause]] Listen to these words: some have remembered them, then we will see what they mean. I regret to say that I do not really see where Salvini is wrong: illegitimately one tries to enter Italy and the Minister of the Interior intervenes so that this does not happen and I do not understand what the attorney of Agrigento has to do with it. Am I wrong? These are the words of Paolo Auriemma, chief prosecutor of Viterbo and attention to words, because we have read them, but they must be understood. "No, you're right, but now you have to attack it": these are instead the words of Luca Palamara, very powerful and influential member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, capable of conditioning the careers of his colleagues, former president of the National Association of Judges. So Palamara utters these words and every word has meaning. First he says: "You are right", so I Palamara believe that it is true that Salvini intervenes so that there are no illegitimate entrances, it is true that he is doing his duty (and perhaps it is also true: what does the Agrigento Public Prosecutor have to do with it?), but now we have to attack him and it is the "we" that impresses me enormously. [[Applause]] "We": the plural is used, but "noi" who? He was talking to a magistrate, ergo we magistrates are not that we can attack him, but we must attack him, even if he is on the side of reason. Someone wanted to get a little drunk on these words, saying that maybe, at the end of the day, they were talk between friends, between privates. So, I tried to examine the intercepts -- and I tell you more, I want to see even more -- and I found another one that maybe makes it clear whether or not they were private chatting or if there was something more. Guess who's the president of the Palermo Court of Ministers? I mean, this war declared to Salvini was so well known, at least among the magistrates, that it led anyone to have a file in his hand concerning Salvini to write immediately to Palamara. Do you know who's on it? Me! Something like that is so weird. And do you know what Palamara answers, always sober, discreet, that protects the institutions? He says: "Great." Great, and then he concludes, after the chat: "I am always with you. A strong hug. Consider that almost all of Palamara's chats end with a hug: here perhaps it was a particularly important figure and at that time the hug is "strong." [[Applause]] When these messages came to light, for two or three days everyone was scandalized in the newspapers and then it was said: all in all there is a trial in Perugia, we will see what will happen. The Perugia trial, for the sake of clarity, will check whether any crimes against Palamara exist. But I ask myself another problem: if those weren't private chatter (because they don't seem private chatter, since everyone knew what Palamara's goal was), did this invitation of Palamara remain only in that chat or, by chance, did it have consequences? Let's see some dates? Do you know what date that message is? August 2018. Matthew, when do the various applications for permission begin to proceed with you? August 2018. Since then, we have had any kind of delay or denial to the unlawful landing turn into seizure: 18, kidnapping; Gregoretti, kidnapping; Open Arms, kidnapping. It will be said: perhaps it is because, in the end, Salvini begins to operate at that moment, so it is actually from that moment that a crime is formed. The answer is: I am sorry, but it is not so, because the same conducts, delay or denial, occur also later, without criminal consequences: October 2019, according to Government Count. The second Conte Government is characterized by wide open ports, but not always. Ocean Viking is stuck at sea for eleven days because it was waiting for the vote for the regional elections in Umbria. [[Applause]] Note that the time that was considered criminally relevant for Salvini ranges from August 14 to 20; in this case instead it is eleven days. January 2020, second Conte Government, always Ocean Viking, near Taranto, with 403 migrants on board, of which 149 children, waits four days before having the ok: no consequences. What I am wondering is this: does the Italian penal code, by chance, contain a criminal who provides that, if the seizure is for electoral purposes, is it lawful? [[Extended applause]] Otherwise the difference is not explained: one was an alleged seizure to protect the Homeland and the other was a seizure for electoral purposes. But, be careful, I see double standards on another front: do you know who Creus is? He's an important character, sometimes even doing interviews with Baricco and others. He's the commander of Open Arms. Know that Creus is the commander of both the Open Arms trip subject to this application for permission to proceed, as well as other trips made by Open Arms in the past. What's going on with Creus? Was he Minister Salvini in March 2018? No. Well, Open Arms, with Commander Creus, makes the usual game of asking with insistence to arrive in Italy; he lands in Italy and takes a trial against him for serious crimes. There's been a very good appeal for a trial for Marc Reig Creus. Do you know what he's accused of? Private violence, because instead of heading towards Malta, the nearest landing point, and requiring the Maltese authorities to indicate a port, as provided for by international conventions and as indicated by the flag State, headed towards the Italian coasts, forcing the Italian authorities to grant the landing place. Creus is violent: private violence. The second head of charge is aiding illegal immigration (among other things, it is within the meaning of the third paragraph of Article 12 of Legislative Decree No 286 of 1998, so it is considered among the organizers of this aiding). So, in March 2018, Creus is a criminal. What happens to the Creus delinquent? Delinquent according to that request for referral to trial, Creus is aboard the Open Arms in August 2019, and Salvini has already reminded you that Creus, four times, refuses the possibility of landing migrants. Let's see what these opportunities are. Meanwhile, on August 4th, there were extraordinarily bright weather conditions: Malta immediately invites Creus to contact Spain, which can be reached in 2-3 days, so Creus, starting on 4 August, could have reached Spain on 7-8 August. Creus's good answer is: no way! On August 10, Malta, at this point, decides to authorize the landing of some migrants, so Creus, who wants to save migrants, receives the approval from Malta at the landing of part of the migrants and you know what answers? He doesn't want to do injustice on board. There is a letter in which it says that it would cause problems because on board it had more races and if it had sent down one race, the other would have been hurt. I'm sorry, but who took all these races? So, he doesn't let the migrants down. On August 18, the first Spanish approval and Creus' response is as follows: too far to get to the Strait of Gibraltar. At this point, rightly, Toninelli takes charge of telling him that we would help him. Gentlemen, I say this for the sake of clarity: Toninelli does not appear in the application for authorisation to proceed. Just to avoid misunderstandings. There is a public statement, a statement that you will find everywhere, in which Toninelli says: to me it does not seem in good faith Creus. He says to the same Creus: we accompany you, with our ships. And Creus answers Toninelli: no, thank you. On 19 August, to eliminate further alibi, it indicates an even closer port, Gibraltar. Creus refuses for the fourth time. So, my question is, if there's a danger situation, and you have a chance, four times to get out of the danger situation and say no, you, are you going to look for it or not? [[Applause.]] What is amazing is that Creus - very bad when there is Minniti, very good while there is Salvini - in this case he has no charges. Do you know who has the denial charge? Matteo Salvini. Because, in addition to the kidnapping, I'll write you down, Matthew, who also gave you the refusal of office papers. He refused, but the crime was given to him, who is King Midas of the crime: where he touches, it is a crime. So, Salvini's taking an indictment for kidnapping. In this regard, I want to ask a question: if I were in a locked room, and there were five doors in this room, four of which were open and one closed, armored, and I, instead of heading peacefully towards the four open doors, would I try to force the locked door, be the victim of a kidnapping or would I be a wild crazy woman trying in every way to force a door? [[Applause.]] Colleagues, I am overconvinced that there are different situations and that we must never make the whole grass a bundle, but it is also true that, among some of these ships, it seems to me that they are starting to make a bit of a whim: there I do not go, neither, not even there; therefore, they must explain why they do not go. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that when we talk about the public interest, perhaps we should also take into account the fact that there is also a public interest in preventing people who have very heavy accusations, such as aiding them, from entering Italy. Have you raised this problem? I'd like to say something else. You who are now going to vote to send Salvini to trial, are in favour of Creus. I would like to point out to you that you may have missed it. Do you know what happened on February 5, 2020? In Ragusa the trial of Creus began. Those who vote against Salvini today say that Creus is good. Well, those who support this Executive know that the Government formed a civil part against Creus on February 5th. [[Applause]] Do you know who made up a civilian? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bongiorno, I invite you to conclude. BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). The Presidency of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of the Interior have formed a civilian party against Creus. Minister Salvini's assessment of immigration policy will be permanently removed from the evaluation of history and the electorate and you will entrust it to the judiciary. In my opinion, one day you will understand that you are making steps backwards for Parliament. [[Applause]] Today, those who vote to send Salvini to trial do exactly what Palamara asked: he attacks Salvini even if he knows that he has done his duty. You're parliamentarians, don't kneel in Palamara! [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u67	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u68	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u69	EVANGELIST (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few weeks ago in this House, Senator Matteo Salvini said that open ports have saved lives, closed ports are condemning thousands of people to death. Can we ask you, Mr Salvini, if this was a repentance? I believe, more likely, to a lapsus - unfortunately - because, in fact, in August 2019 the former minister Salvini deprived of their personal freedom 161 shipwrecked, then become 134 (including a nine-month-old, two children and two pregnant women), crammed into a civil ship that could contain at most 19 people, under the sun, devoid of human dignity, veterans from wars, suffering, violence and a shipwreck; psychologically exhausted and sick people, as evidenced by the numerous medical evacuations that were arranged. We also remember that on board the ship, during the days of August, the health situation was worsening from hour to hour, with some people lying in very serious conditions, with a lack of antibiotics and in the presence of gunshot infections. Some migrants, at the sight of the mainland, decided to launch themselves into the sea in an attempt to reach the coast by swimming for about 800 meters. Former Minister Salvini, we are talking about people who were landed only after twenty days and not by you, but by the Attorney General's Office in Agrigento. And while this drama was being consumed on the ship, Senator Salvini rode the scenes on the stages, convinced that he was already in the electoral campaign for politics, stating, in a crude and inhuman way, that the package had ended for those who wanted to land in Italy. [[Applause]] For these facts, the Senate Assembly is today called upon to decide whether or not to authorize the judiciary to proceed against Senator Salvini for the offences of seizure of a aggravated person and violation of official duties, pursuant to and for the effects of Article 96 of the Constitution and Article 9 of the Constitutional Law of 16 January 1989, n. 1. The question therefore arises: Did Salvini act in the context of a governmental action in order to pursue a preeminent public interest, as the criminal referred to in Article 9 of the aforementioned law requires, or alone and for his personal political conviction? Well, the Movimento 5 Star Group is there today, it is present and has no doubt. The then Minister of the Interior Matteo Salvini, with a serious behavior taken autonomously and not shared by the remaining government, in open violation of the norms of international law and of the principles of superior hierarchical rank that impose on the signatory States the obligation to save lives at sea, illegitimately held the persons on board, denying them the landing for a political conviction that cannot rise to the pre-eminent public interest of the State and its citizens and for this reason must be subjected to criminal proceedings before the judicial authority. We leave every evaluation to the judiciary, and we do not condemn it here. Therefore the Movimento 5 Stars expresses dissent with respect to the pronunciation of the Junta of the parliamentary elections and immunities, which has accepted the proposal of President Gasparri to deny the authorization to proceed. This does not fail to point out that the proposal cited, in particular in reply to the numerous exceptions raised also by the Movimento 5 Stars in Junta, contains a showy interpretative force, I would say almost hermeneutic, of the facts and their chronology. First of all, the rapporteur recalls in his writings only partially the written notes of Prime Minister Conte and has moved to argue that only with the letter of 16 August, addressed to the then Minister, the President of the Count Council had explained the course to follow, but this is not the case. Already in the first letter, that of 14 August, in fact, the President of the Council clearly indicated the line to be taken to resolve what had in the meantime become the Open Arms case, urging Salvini - these his words - to take urgently the necessary measures to ensure assistance and protection for minors present on the boat. This is due to the international conventions, in particular the International Convention on Research and Maritime Rescue (SAR), signed in Hamburg in 1979, which imposes on the signatory States, including Italy, the obligation to assist and assist persons at sea, but above all the obligation to take these people to a safe place and therefore to land. Salvini prevented the immediate landing of such minors, having as its sole concern to inoculate the doubt that their younger age was only supposed (phrases affirmed by Salvini from a stage during a rally). One wonders, however, how important the circumstance could have been that of 27 minor subjects, in fact nine were of age: evidently none. So, however, it was not for the majority of the members of the Junta and for President Gasparri, who, on the contrary, strongly and in contempt of the real succession of events, claim that the address given by the President of the Count Council to the then Minister is dated 16 August instead of 14, when the President of the Council expressly recalled Salvini to respect the legislation in force. Added to this, the minors, after the order of Count and the intervention of the court for minors in Palermo, were only landed on August 17 by Salvini, despite his (the words of the former Minister). It is not true, therefore, that the landing took place immediately or on the same day as Salvini's taking of action of the government's address, compared to which, on the other hand, it reiterated its discrepancy with its political orientation. Let us remember that on the same date the regional administrative court (TAR) of Sardinia had suspended the security decree bis; suspension in my opinion even unnecessary because, unlike what President Gasparri wrote in his initial report, domestic law always gives way to the rules of international law that prevail and there is no need for any recourse to the Constitutional Court. Moreover, the desperate attempt, which failed resoundingly, of which no mention is made in the decree of the Junta, with which Salvini, after the TAR had suspended the decree security bis, tried to issue another interdictive measure, but the Minister of Defense and the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport refused to countersign, thus giving that irrefutable proof that you continue to seek open disagreement between the line adopted by the former minister Salvini and the collective address of the Government. [[Applause]] Nor can we accept another fearsome and daring deduction made by the rapporteur, namely that the address given by the President-in-Office of the Council was only for minors. In fact, he had clarified in a few lines, the Prime Minister Conte, that he had received the availability by a plurality of States to the reception of migrants of the Open Arms, according to his words: "to share the burden of hospitality for all the people we are dealing with, even regardless of their age". [[Applause]] The parallelism, also super exploited, between the 2018 Diciotti case and the 2019 Gregoretti and Open Arms cases is worth nothing, completely different concrete cases, so different must be the conclusions. During the months between the two summers, a valuable diplomatic work had been carried out by Prime Minister Conte, who had consolidated good relations with European partners and the redistribution of migrants had become a good practice, which will in fact be formalized in October, at the meeting in Malta, so that the pressure to be made on European countries through the ban on the landing of shipwrecks was no longer a governmental action, but the political action absolutely personal of Senator Salvini. The argument of President Gasparri that the pre-eminent public interest does not really have to exist is therefore even more peculiar, but the Minister's ventilated will to pursue it would be sufficient. This would fully justify the work of Salvini, who claims to have acted to avert the terrorist threat linked to migration flows, highlighted at a meeting of the National Committee of Order and Public Security held one year earlier, in 2018. This is nothing more than a loophole, the result of an unacceptable forcing, which does not take into account the profound change in the international landscape that took place in 2019, when the European States decided to adopt the policy of redistribution, as unacceptable is that it is said that it must be appreciated that Salvini wanted to save Italy and the Italians from international terrorism, even if this risk was completely imaginary. Accepting this argument would mean subverting an objective parameter of judgment and the very logic of judging, because it would end up justifying any criminal action, if abstractly aimed at pursuing an inaccurate pre-eminent interest, detached from the real scope of the facts. Last but not least, it shows how the ideas of Minister Salvini and of the Government to which he belonged were now on different and distant tracks: in the days of the Open Arms affair, had consumed the unsatisfied fracture desired by Senator Salvini himself with the presentation of a motion of distrust to President Count just on August 9, 2019 in the Senate. It was the days of the demand for full powers, with the glasses at the top, under the scorching sun of the Riviera Romagnola, a bad page of republican history, further tainted by the League's instrumental and self-referential attempt to oppose the application for permission to proceed against their leader. It is for all these reasons that, on behalf of the Movimento 5 Star Group, I am voting against the report by Senator Gasparri. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u70	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u71	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u72	Mr Quegliariello (Mist). Mr President, in the few minutes I have, I would like to talk about two problems. The first one is called Matteo Salvini. From what we've heard, Matteo Salvini has become a symbol. Senator Salvini has often spoken in this House lately. I am part of his side but I didn't always agree with him, but often my opinions are different. This does not mean that, when a person becomes a symbol, it is a serious problem for politics and even a crime for justice. This must somehow be borne in mind and have an even stronger precautionary principle. Mr President, you know that we are not new in this House and you know that this precautionary principle has been achieved not only when it comes to taking a position on the people of our side, but also and especially when it comes to our political opponents. The second problem is called politics, Mr President, and in particular it is called gubernaculum: that area of government whose defence coincided with the birth of modern constitutionalism. We are here to defend the empire; the possibility that it is not another power, without adequate counterweights, to decide what the pre-eminent public interest is. It seems to me that we are giving this power to the judiciary today. To subtract decisions such as those on the prosecution of a minister to the dynamics of post-politics is essential if we are still to assert a role for this Parliament. You can think of it as you want, you can change a majority, but at least those senators who were part of the previous majority should not change their mind about the public interest, otherwise politics dies and post-political is born. This is for decency, but if decency is dead we would like to try to prevent politics from dying too, and that is why the senators of IDeA and Cambiamo!, members of the Mixed Group, will vote in favour of Senator Gasparri's report. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u73	We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I would remind you that the proposal of the Assembly for elections and parliamentary immunities, pursuant to Rule 135a (8) of the Rules of Procedure, will be rejected if it fails to vote in favour of the absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, i.e. 160 votes. In accordance with Rule 135- bis of the Rules of Procedure, I call for a simultaneous vote by electronic ballot on the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities, which is aimed at denying the authorization to proceed with Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister for the Interior. The senators in favour of the Junta's proposal not to grant authorization to proceed will vote yes. Senators against the Junta proposal will vote no. Senators who intend to abstain will express themselves accordingly. I declare the vote open. (The vote was followed). I declare the roll-call vote closed by simultaneous ballot. I would also remind you that the result will not be proclaimed immediately. Senators who have not taken part in the vote will then be able to go to the bench of the Presidency and declare their clear vote to the Secretary Senators who will take note of it in appropriate minutes. This option may be exercised until the closing of voting operations scheduled for 6 p.m. Subsequently, the vote and the proclamation of the result will take place. The sitting is not suspended. At 3:00 p.m., the question time is expected. As agreed, I immediately point out the Conference of the Leaders in the Pannini Room. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 14:18 a.m. - at 11:18 a.m.) - 14.57 -).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u74	The next item is the immediate questioning (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, the Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism and the Minister for Health will respond. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Magorno has the right to explain the question 3-01839 on measures to support food and food supply, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u75	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the restrictive measures taken to prevent and combat the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 have resulted in the worst economic crisis since the post-war period. In particular, among the sectors most affected is the Horeca channel (hotellerie, restaurant, café), that is, all the operators working in the food and drink administration sector, other than the large organized distribution that mainly affects the food and beverage trade. This specific section has undergone, from first, the complete closure during the lockdown and, subsequently, a complex phase of reopening with limitations of the seats related to the necessary measures of social distancing. Given that the flow of tourism has also fallen unprecedentedly and the pandemic does not seem to diminish, particularly outside the European borders, the crisis in the catering sector is worsening further. According to the Institute of Services for the Agricultural Food Market (Ismea), on the side of extra-domestic food consumption the expenditure of Italian households in 2019 has almost 86 billion euros, with a real increase on the previous year of 1.6%. In view of this very positive trend, the outlook for extra-domestic consumption for 2020 is far from encouraging: it can potentially be estimated that the channel has had a fall of 40%, for an amount of at least €34 billion of losses. According to "FareRete" a project composed of thirty associations of the catering sector, with 100,000 employees, and according to the agri-food and fisheries sectors of the association Alliance of Italian cooperatives, in the absence of the catering channel a quota of between 30 and 50 percent of the agri-food productions is found without a commercial outlet. According to Coldiretti, in just three months of lockdown the collapse of the catering activities for the forced stop of hotels, bars, trattorias, restaurants, pizzerias and agritourisms has had a negative effect that has reverberated on the entire national agri-food sector, with a loss of turnover of at least 1.5 billion euros for the missed purchases in food and drink. The measures of liquidity and non-refundable aid introduced with the decree-law care Italy and with the subsequent decree relaunch were a first positive signal, but not decisive in order to raise the sector. In this context, there is an increased risk of food waste due to the lack of market positioning of food products for the catering sector. It is therefore asked to know what measures the Minister in address is developing for direct support to the 180,000 catering activities, for the benefit of the entire Italian agri-food chain. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Covid-19 emergency and the prolonged closure of most of the Horeca exercises have led to losses for all economic actors involved in the agri-food system. Also the reopening, in these weeks, is critical that cannot be ignored, starting from the drastic decrease of the places available in the premises, that it affects the billed ones of the catering enterprises already in great suffering and also on the occupational levels. In recent times, we have all recognised the strategic and decisive role of our food chain, what we have called the life chain. We all said thank you, but that's not enough. Supporting catering means preventing the failure of a strategic piece of our Made in Italy, a piece on which our strength is based, our identity in the world. As I have already said to my colleagues in the Government, the Italian agri-food supply chain must be seen in its broadest perspective, from the agricultural worker to the consumer. From this point of view, the catering sector is a crucial link, I would say crucial, given above all the significant share of national agri-food products, including wines and drinks, which is absorbed by catering and pizzerias and which has a significant influence on the segments of excellence of our productions. With Minister Patuanelli we have listened to the representatives of the sector and it is very urgent to intervene in order to support the restaurateurs and the entire supply chain, in the within of the actions to preview in the next decree of support to the economic and productive sectors. In these hours there is an intense activity of confrontation with the other administrations, in order to define the modalities of intervention. Our proposal is already on the table: a catering fund with a total value of about EUR 1 billion. In fact, it is necessary to encourage as much as possible the maintenance of restaurants with an immediate measure that injects liquidity in order to put these enterprises in a position to quickly reactivate the supply of food and that enhances what already foreseen in the liquidity decrees and relaunch. Hence the proposal of an ad hoc fund for a bonus supply chain Italy. In fact, we offer a bonus of about 5,000 euros in direct loss to the 180,000 public catering establishments for the purchase of national agri-food products and Italian raw materials. As I said, the objective of this proposal is twofold: to ensure an immediate injection of liquidity and, at the same time, to support the Italian agri-food supply chain. I am convinced that the adoption of a measure of this magnitude will contribute very significantly to the reactivation of virtuous economic and social dynamics that the country, especially at this time, needs. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Magorno has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u77	Thank you, Minister, for the work you have been doing over the last few months. With your measures, which are concrete, you have given an effective and concrete response to the last mile of the life chain, as you have defined it. Our restaurants are the flagship of Made in Italy, the excellence of the food and wine chain. As mayor I can testify to the suffering, the discomfort, and even the pain sometimes, of generations of families who have handed down an ancient trade, which should never be mocked and abandoned because it is one of the most important glue of our communities.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u78	Senator De Bonis has the right to explain the question 3-01838 on the import of foreign grains of lower quality and food safety, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u79	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the arrival in the port of Bari of foreign ships containing durum wheat mainly from Canada continues undisturbed. We are talking about millions of quintals, not indifferent quantities that are destined for large industrial food companies, which thus alter the price lists of the national market. Officially, it would not seem sufficient the quantity produced in Italy but in reality it is the precarious market situation that discourages the cultivation of this important cereal for our Mediterranean diet. I would remind the Minister that I have asked many questions, in which I have reported all the ship data in detail, but none of them has been answered, not even in relation to the controls of the Central Inspection of Quality Protection and fraud prevention of agri-food products (Icqrf), which we also heard at the Commission's hearing. I should like to inform the Minister that on 27 July he visited the Casillo Group which appears to be the main importer of Canadian foreign wheat. In fact, since the beginning of the year it has imported about 1.650,000 quintals out of a total of more than three million quintals that all Italy has imported from abroad. I would also like to remind the Minister that this House has approved the motion for a resolution on haddock, which is a substance in Canadian wheat which is harmful to public health. Recent scientific studies have revealed genotoxicity, endocrine interference and alteration of intestinal microbiota as well as probable carcinogenicity. I therefore ask Minister Bellanova today: what steps does he intend to take to discourage the purchase of foreign grains which are punctually mixed with high quality national durum wheat, depressing its national production? Since the Minister was in Corato on Monday, a visit from the Casillo group, in the middle of an election campaign, what were the topics discussed on the issue of foreign wheat import? When you came to Casillo, leader of the milling industry market, did you invite him to give priority and fair value to the wheat produced by the Italian farmers represented by you? This is not clear from the interview. With his message, instead of promoting the use of Italian wheat for the production of pasta and to protect Made in Italy, he thanked industrial entrepreneurs who make the production of an industrial Made in Italy obtained through the transformation of Canadian wheat. Its role requires it to take care of the protection of the Italian agricultural product, of Italian wheat and not of the industrial product composed of Canadian raw materials. Otherwise, Minister, many of us would doubt that he is a Canadian rather than an Italian Minister of Agriculture. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u80	Mr President, Mr Senator, the Ministry of Agricultural Policies, which I represent, is strongly committed to supporting the entire cereal supply chain and, in particular, the wheat-paste sector. As a testament to this, in the I throw back decree I strongly wanted the inclusion of the extraordinary contributory exemption, social security and welfare, for the period from January to June 2020 also for cereals growers. This measure is one of the main response tools that the Government has put in place at this very delicate stage for the country. With regard to transparency, I would remind the Senator that, at the initiative of Mipaaf, the decree that makes the origin of wheat used for pasta compulsory was extended, a clear choice to put the consumer in a position to know, consciously and informedly, the foods he buys. On the price formation front, as the Senator will know, the Ministry has opened a comparison with the supply chain for the establishment of a national experimental commission for the indicative price. Because of the pandemic, the end of the collection of delegations to establish the representation of the productive world in this commission was postponed to 30 September. I would also remind you that in these weeks payments for national durum wheat in supply chain contracts have been released and additional €10 million are being paid by the Ministry of Agriculture for the 2019 application. I am convinced that strengthening supply chain contracts represents one of the most powerful structural actions in order to enhance the quality of national wheat and promote the production of quality pasta 100% Italian. On the supervisory front, we are all committed to maximum consumer protection, as demonstrated by the thousands of controls carried out by the competent bodies, just as I am aware of the need to help national agricultural production of durum wheat to produce more and more quality wheat, given that the pasta industry absorbs it completely and we are not self-sufficient in this production. As regards the request to have the nationalized import hard wheat return to the invoice, I would point out that on the traceability documents of the imported lots there remains an indication that the wheat is of foreign origin. Finally, I would like to refer to what the Ministry of Health has pointed out in relation to the controls they are responsible for. The numerous health checks, carried out by the competent peripheral offices, operating at Italian ports and airports, have not found, for three years to this part, any criticality regarding the presence of chicory on wheat of foreign origin, that it turns out conform to the national and European health regulations.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u81	I give the floor to Senator De Bonis to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u82	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have held a hearing in the competent Commission with the authorities responsible for controls and we have heard first the Icqrf, which depends on your Dicastery, and then the Office for Maritime, Air and Border Health (USMAF), which depends in particular on the Directorate-General for Health Prevention. We are still waiting for the Commission to be presented with all the analyses carried out by Icqrf and we have made the same request to the USMAF, but to date nothing has been received. In the Commission we had the opportunity to report to the officials of the Icqrf that the managers of the Harbour office, mainly Puglia and in particular to Bari, accused of the failure to carry out checks and of not having seen the Icqrf in Bari since last February. So we have a lot of concerns about the quantity and quality of controls. As far as we know, all ships contain products with quantities of haddock which, while complying with the limits laid down by the European Union with regard to maximum concentration, are contrary to the precautionary principle, which has also been transposed into our country. As far as prices are concerned, it would be appropriate for the Single National Commission (CUN) to develop the delegation for producers before it is launched so that there is no close link with its trade union representative body, because farmers would like this activity to be carried out freely and therefore they would have the full possibility of giving this delegation to anyone. I hope that as soon as possible the committee will be set up and convened and that a process of harmonization of national quotations with the rest of the world will be launched, where the poor quality grains with toxicological residues undergo a downgrading abroad which is not good for us and this instead results in a flow of imports of these third and fourth category ships. We also called for a greater... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u83	Senator De Bonis, I remember that during the question time the respect of the times is a little more rigid.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u84	Mr President, it is a pleasure to be able to question the kind Minister on behalf of many colleagues in the Democratic Party on the issue of the critical issue in the insurance system of agricultural enterprises, which we believe is very important for a sector, which, as the Minister has also mentioned earlier, we have mentioned so much in recent months and which we have talked a lot about during lockdown. Mr Minister, you know that at this moment, completely unpredictable weather events, which are a consequence of climate change, and also, of course, the health emergency linked to the Covid-19, have put the agri-food companies in great difficulty, with a drop in liquidity, which affects the whole sector. With this question, we therefore ask you to try to find a way of alleviating the difficulties in this sector. The agri-food insurance system is essential for the support of all businesses, it offers economic support to the companies themselves, but it also involves an economic commitment to those enterprises, because somewhere the resources to take out the insurance must be found. It is true that there are national and Community contributions that are fundamental and that in some situations they can also become essential. Such resources are really important. As you know, there is a time problem, which is now quite structural, in the provision of contributions. In fact there are delays (even for several years) that, in our opinion, are intolerable because they put in trouble the whole sector. In conclusion, being aware of the importance of the topic, we ask you whether and how the Ministry intends to intervene both from the point of simplification of the documentation that the companies, and especially those who guide them, must prepare - that surely is a commitment - and then whether and what it intends to do to speed up the payments and support, trying to eliminate or limit the risks, this chain of life, as you also called it a while ago, about which we have so much talked and that we of the Democratic Party - as you well know - believe is fundamental for the restart of the country. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry Policy, Senator Bellanova, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u85	Mr President, Mrs Senator, I am aware of the difficulties facing the agricultural world and of the need for simplification in all the procedures affecting the whole sector. Many initiatives have already been taken, but it is necessary to continue in this direction in order to facilitate as much as possible the whole sector. In this respect, in order to simplify the formal documentation accompanying individual insurance plans, an intercourse has already been initiated with the European Commission to verify the possibility of establishing standard performance values or values, within which the farmer is exempted from exhibiting documentation to demonstrate his farm return data. As regards the acceleration of insurance refunds, I would point out that the facilitated insurance measures also make use of the simplifications provided for by the Covid rules. I am referring in particular to the introduction by the Agency for the disbursements in agriculture (Agea) of the deferred signature for the issue of the documentation, the possibility of paying under a decisive condition, before the presentation of the anti-mafia documentation and, for national aids, the temporary possibility of proceeding with the payment without the prior verification of any tax slopes. Further simplifications have also been introduced for the on-the-spot checks envisaged in the sample of applications submitted. I would also point out that the increase in the number of farms benefiting from the insurance instrument is one of the objectives of the risk management measure of the national rural development programme. We are also working in the context of the next programming to ensure that this opportunity is used by all agricultural companies, at least to cover the cadastral risks that periodically affect our agricultural territories and their economies. In addition to this measure, support will also be maintained for other instruments, such as policies to cover punctual risks (such as hail), mutual funds and the income stabilisation instrument. In any case, for appropriate risk management by agricultural enterprises, it will be necessary to coordinate the interventions with the regions that will have to integrate the tools present with preventive investment measures of technical assistance and knowledge transfer. The latter are necessary to create an entrepreneurial culture of risk management. All measures will have to ensure the resilience of companies to adapt to climate change, but also unforeseen but predictable events such as the market crisis. I conclude by confirming my full commitment to support any initiative aimed at adopting measures to support companies in the sector, which in recent months, despite the extraordinary difficulties encountered, have guaranteed the maintenance of the Italian agricultural system. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Biti to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u86	Minister, we are satisfied. I have one thing to say, which is certainly a solicitation and which also concerns other parts and other plans of our national corporate fabric: take the best from this crisis situation to make it normal. What you say about speeding up reimbursements and simplification, which refers to the rules on the Covid emergency, I hope will become normal. We hope that this will happen not only in the agri-food sector, but in general. It's my personal wish. We are satisfied, Minister, and I renew your invitation - I have asked you several times, even recently here in this House - to return to the Commission. Because of the Covid emergency, you haven't been able to come back yet to complete your audition. I hope that it will come soon, because the Agriculture Commission, although in the different political positions of each Group, has always shown that it is really looking for a comparison, so as to arrive at a synthesis and obtain results for the whole agri-food sector. You use us, Minister, because the powers in that Commission are there and we are at your disposal. Much has been said about the relationship between Parliament and the Government: we are at your complete disposal to try to help a sector that is so dear to us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u87	Senator Centinario has the right to explain the question 3-01837 on measures to relaunch the tourism sector, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u88	Mr President, I will explain the question, if that's okay with you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u89	You're replacing Senator Centinaire? RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). From the beginning it was like this, anyway it's okay. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Your Group did not report it, but we appreciate it, but we are happy. Please, Senator Ripamonti. RIPAMONTI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. Today it is not easy for us to intervene in this question time, after, with today's vote on the authorization to proceed with Mr Salvini - as Senator Bongiorno rightly said - Parliament or at least part of it has kneeled in Palamara, without a doubt. These are the numbers we repeat every time when we talk about tourism: 223 billion and 13 points of GDP. It is up to us, and we must do so, because unfortunately, every time we talk about tourism, we must remember how important it is for our production sector. I believe that we are not the only ones who do this, because every time I hear about tourism everyone refers to these figures. We must do this for a very simple reason: I believe that up to now - I say this without fear of denial - there are no acts that have given some relief to this sector that we all repeat are strategic and important. The last alarm cry, very high, is that of tour operators; but it is only the last of a long series. I am not here to mention all the associations that we have audited during the examination of the deal awarded No 445, which led to the unanimous adoption of a resolution containing a whole series of initiatives for tourism. This means that to date not much has been done, or even nothing. There are some very authoritative studies that certify that until May, in the face of the Covid emergency, there was a net loss of about 275 billion. God forbid the emergency extends until December, because in that case the estimate is 640 billion. Measure after measure, from Italy's care to liquidity and recovery, it is clear that the measures taken have not been sufficient. His watchword has always been to say that you will put resources into the next measure. However, we have been waiting for a while, as we expect rain in drought time. Since you have very often referred to resources, measures, projects and planning, we are here to ask you - I read it, because it is important that I read well what we ask of you - whether the resources that will be made available to the sector and the interventions that the Government intends to carry out through the next economic maneuver have already been identified. I am closing, Mr President, in order to be within the times - as you recommend to us - by showing the Minister a bill on tourism - he will probably have recognized it - at first signature Gianmarco Centinario, second signature Ripamonti and to follow all the signatures of our Group. It contains, Mr President, Minister, everything that the tourism sector is asking for. We didn't leave anyone behind: tour guides, tour operators and more. It's all in here. I'll finish - you know - by doing what? Delivering it to the Minister in a spirit of cooperation, nothing else.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u90	[[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u91	The Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u92	Mr President, Senator Ripamonti, the League, with Senator Centinario, has managed the Ministry of Tourism - as happened to me in the other legislature - at a positive moment of great growth and impetuous development, as has been the case in recent years, of international tourism in Italy. And you understand well, even though you are in opposition today, that it is completely different to manage the Ministry not in a situation of growth, but within a huge drama such as the one that hit tourism around the world after the emergency Covid. ( [[Applause).]] Many things have been done in the provisions. It's not an announcement or a postponement. We have done - I regret to have to list them briefly - in the various decrees that have followed the exemption of the IRAP payment; the non-refundable contribution for the decrease in turnover; the tax credit for the adaptation of work environments; the facilities for access to liquidity; for the first time, the social shock absorbers sector, which the sector has never had as a derogation and the extraordinary allowance also for all seasonal and temporary workers; the tax credit holiday (to date, more than 900,000 people have already received the bonus and more than 100,000 have already used it and lasted until 31 December); the tourism promotion fund; the reimbursement of travel licences and tourist packages; the tax credit for rentals and tour operators; the abolition of the payment of the first IMU instalment for the tourism sector only; the tourism fund; the restoration of the residence tax to the municipalities; the relief fund for travel agencies and tour operators; the exemption from the payment of the tax for the occupation of public spaces and areas (TOSAP) and the rent for the occupation of public areas and areas (COSAP); the increase in the provision of contracts for development you have requested; the exemption from the levy for the employment of public areas and public areas (COSAP); the provision for the provision of the charters which you have requested; the development of the charters; So, many things have been done, but they are not enough. The tourism sector has been deeply affected. It is a crisis that is longer than the previous one. We are working on measures and I am sorry to have to use this term which - I imagine - will be criticized. I do not have the habit of coming to Parliament to announce measures before they are discussed and approved in the Council of Ministers. I can tell you what we're working on because it's a matter of days. We will have two important stages: one concerns the decree that we will make at the beginning of August, with the resources of the deviation that Parliament has just voted on, and then there will be the great opportunity provided by the 209 billion recovery fund of the European Union, on which we started working and which will come after the summer. In the measure that we will adopt in a few days we are working on three priorities: the first is to ensure a system of social shock absorbers for sectors that have prolonged crises and, therefore, especially tourism (prolonging the integration fund and the extraordinary allowance for atypical seasonal workers); support for businesses, including the IMU and the rent tax credit for those who did not have it and, above all, aid for the sectors most affected. Even within tourism there are sectors more or less affected. Aid will therefore be provided in particular for travel agencies and tour operators, who no longer have customers because no long-term travel programme and therefore need much more support than the first 25 million they have already had. The second sector is that of cities of art because, if tourism is resumed in some sectors, in cities of art, unfortunately, there is a particular problem that requires further action. I think Senator Centinaire will respond by saying that they are insufficient and inadequate. I wanted to tell you - I repeat - that I will continue to take every criticism, even the most ingenious, as a positive contribution. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u93	Senator Centinario has the right to speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u94	Mr President, I am not saying that we are not at all satisfied. In fact, Minister, we are when something is done for the sector. I remind you that, when we met on March 4, at the beginning of the pandemic, we told you that we were at your side and willing to reason together to do something and improve our country. Minister, you know very well that this is a sector that is capping 232 billion, that is 13% of GDP and 14% of employment. To make EUR 4 billion available to the sector, when France put EUR 20 billion and Spain put EUR 10 billion into it, seems a little bit small to us. It is not us who say that nothing has yet been done. On March 16, Federalberghi Campania on the decree-law cure Italy declared: On April 30, Federalberghi Veneto said it had been abandoned by the Government. On May 12, Astoi, Aidit, Assoviaggi and FTO said they were concerned by the decree-law I raise. On 25 May, the associations of Sicilian hoteliers said that their claims fell into thin air. On July 10 Astoi declared on the decree-law I raise that the indifference manifested towards the sector is no longer acceptable. On July 11, Federalberghi said that in June there was less than 80 percent. On July 27, Federturismo: "other than vacation bonuses, the Government does not listen to us". It is not Senator Centinario and the League who say that this government is not doing enough, but the tourism sector is saying it. So, Minister, if you bring in an interesting decree for the sector and the latter will tell us that Minister Franceschini is working well, we will be at the side of Minister Franceschini. Otherwise, we will fail it, as the whole sector is failing it now. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u95	Senator Santillo has the right to explain the question 3-01835 on the new logo of the Palace of Caserta, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u96	Minister, on April 22, the director of the Palace of Caserta Tiziana Maffei, appointed on May 14, 2019, presented the new logo of the Vanvitellian monument on video conference, announcing also and in what way it was intended to reorganize the museum site for the after Covid-19. A few hours after the launch of the new Reggia brand in Caserta, only negative comments appeared on social media. In particular, the President of the Order of Architects of Caserta Raffaele Cecoro said that the order of architects by its nature has a role that presents a close connection with culture and design; for this reason he feels the obligation to disagree in a very strong way for the choice of the new logo of the Palace of Caserta. The logo chosen to represent the brand totally lacks any historical-artistic reference and seems a real plagiarism as it is similar if not identical to other already existing logos. It seems to have been borrowed from that of the famous tennis champion Roger Federer or even worse from that of the famous Canadian real estate company "Ricco Colinares" who has been using this brand for years. The work to realize the Reggia logo of Caserta has been assigned with direct trust to the company Sigla Communication, based in Levata di Curtatone (Mantova), for the amount of 37,500 net of VAT, authorized by the then interim director Antonio Lampis. The Signa Comunicazione agency in Mantua has produced an extremely simple logo, which does not allow to glimpse any creative effort both graphic and historical, with the banal use of the initials "R" and "C". Given that the new logo of the Palace of Caserta does not represent the deep characters that characterize the monument, the graphic simplicity has given rise to the profusion of numerous parodies, so as to cause fear of image damage to the monument itself. Moreover, it is the opinion of the interrogators that the fearful air of change that one wants to promote for the Palace of Caserta does not befit in any way the prestige of the monument, which is remembered to be UNESCO heritage and one of the most visited in Italy. Moreover, the existing logo, which depicted the map of the Palace of Caserta seen from above, was much more representative, according to all. Considering, finally, that the cost for the realization of the new logo has been 37,500 euros, significant figure, especially in view of the period of crisis and that this figure could be used for targeted interventions of redevelopment and maintenance of parks and buildings, we ask to know how much the initiative described has caused an image and economic damage not only to the Reggia of Caserta, but also to the entire Italian cultural heritage, and above all what initiatives he intends to undertake to remedy what we could consider a real outrage to history. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Cultural Heritage and Activities and Tourism, Mr Franceschini, has the right to answer this question for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u97	Mr President, Caserta's Palace has been a symbol of an extraordinary history of ransom in recent years. The new director, identified after the international selection that has been used according to the new norm of 2014 for the directors of the largest Italian museums, has brought a breath of innovation: restoration, redevelopment of the park, increase of the number of visitors, improvement of the services recognized in an absolutely transversal way and, above all, outside the borders of our country, also seen the huge increase of the number of visitors. As a result of this renewal work, in 2019 the interim museum director - the previous director, Felicori, had retired - recognized the need to reorganize the site and to look for a brand, a logo that promoted it more effectively. It has therefore been started, pursuant to article 36, paragraph 2, of Legislative Decree no. 50 of 2016, being an expense less than 40,000 euros, with the acquisition of three estimates, the evaluation of the best offer. On 22 May 2019 the director was entrusted to the aforementioned company "Sigla srl" the identification of a new visual identity and from there came out the symbol, which I believe has been reported in the newspapers, containing the indication "Reggia di Caserta" and the monogram "RC" which did not like the public opinion of the city, nor many critics. It is natural that there is a debate when a new logo is introduced, but the negative assessment has been largely prevalent. Caserta's Reggia brand as a type logo is now the subject of an evaluation: there will no longer be the single-gram RC, which has been withdrawn, as declared publicly. The new director of the Palace of Caserta has decided to promote, and is already doing, an international competition for the choice of the logo. It seems to me, therefore, that all of this can be easily overcome. I would add - and I say this because, having been asked a question, of course, I have a duty to answer - that, with regard to the relationship between museum and political institutions, we really must provide a margin of total freedom for the museum institutions, even when they are the subject of criticism, which it is legitimate to do, as the press has done and have done the questioners, and as it should be done. I believe, however, that it is not necessary to enter the autonomous management of museums and therefore the choices, positive or negative, must remain in total autonomy. Therefore, neither we as politicians, nor I as Minister, can begin to evaluate the individual choice, judging it, even on the basis of very subjective criteria, right or wrong, when especially it concerns the policies of communication of a museum. Having said that, it seems to me that the public's drive has led to a review of the management's choice and the new selection criteria will certainly remedy the problem that has arisen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator De Lucia may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u98	Minister, we are relatively satisfied with the answer. Of course, we did not ask you for an opinion on the choice of the logo, which would not actually fall within your remit, as you yourself pointed out. We wanted to highlight, however, as a small gesture, such as the choice of the logo of a site as important as the Palace of Caserta - I would like to emphasize that it is important not only for Campania, but for the whole national context, being one of the most visited architectural sites of our country, for which it is also fundamental from the point of view of revenue - can create a bit of difficulty of affiliation, of loving affection towards a method of management compared to the real relationship that there should be between a city and the territory. We were already impressed by the fact that it took ten days to take a step back from the director: in fact, already in a press release of 29 April it was said that the logo was partially withdrawn. I went personally to the Reggia and, in fact, there is now an even more hybrid situation. In fact, not only is there not the logo that would win the race - it was not a real race, but it was a direct trust to a company of Modena - but there is not even the old logo. Hence, the hologram of the small crown has disappeared from the logo used so far and there are not the famous four courtyards, which had been very welcome not only by the city, but also by the world of Italian culture, because, with a simple graphic sign, they perfectly represented the Palace of Caserta. We have also been informed about the possibility of wanting to proceed as soon as possible with an international competition of ideas and we hope that, also for its part, there will be a call for this to happen soon, because I believe that the Reggia deserves special attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u99	Senator Unterberger has the right to explain the question 3-01840 on health measures to ensure the reunion of couples and binational families, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u100	Minister, as we know, Italy has made entry from abroad conditional on the trend of the contagion curve in the countries of origin. Some have completely restored freedom of movement; others, including European countries such as Bulgaria and Romania, have introduced quarantine obligations. There is still no possibility of access to Italy by others, except for proven reasons of health study work. Among these there are several which have close relations with Italy: Bangladesh, Brazil, Northern Macedonia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, just to name a few. The issue concerns mothers and fathers separated from their children, but also couples, married or not, who have the right to reunite with the person with whom they have a stable sentimental bond. These people, who have joined a network called "Love is not tourism," have declared their willingness to carry out, possibly even at their own expense, the necessary tests, both on arrival and on departure, with periodic checks, even weekly. In addition, the Governments of Denmark, Norway and the Netherlands have already included these persons as exempt from the transit ban. All this has been said, it is asked to know if the Minister does not think it appropriate to take measures so that in Italy, too, the parties concerned and in the category are included among those exempt from the transit ban, thus giving the possibility to thousands of couples and families to reunite after this dramatic emergency.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u101	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u102	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Unterberger for this question, which allows me to take stock of a very important matter. In recent months we have managed to bend the curve of contagion, amid a thousand difficulties that are known, clearly, to the honourable senators present, thanks above all to the virtuous behaviors of Italians and Italians and thanks to very harsh measures taken by the national government and our regions. I have already had the opportunity to say in this House that we are out of the storm, but we are not yet in a safe harbor. Meanwhile, the international situation, that outside the borders of our country, is unfortunately increasingly complicated. We have reached over 17 million cases, with over one million more cases per week and, unfortunately, not even under control in our Europe, particularly in the Balkans. Alas, however, in recent days there are not positive signs that also come from very important European countries such as France, Spain and Germany. In this context, I was forced, in order to defend our country, to sign very strict orders, not only for all non-European and non-Schengen countries with the obligation to quarantine, but also for two European countries such as Romania and Bulgaria, which are obliged to the same measures as non-European countries. These are painful choices, which none of us makes lightly, but they are indispensable choices to defend our country and not to frustrate the enormous sacrifices that Italians and Italians have made so far. On the basis of these evaluations, I would like to tell you that I will carefully evaluate your reflections and proposals, because they touch on an issue that is particularly close to my heart and which has to do with constitutional rights, recognized in our country as those that protect family relations. I will therefore examine with the utmost attention his indications and his suggestions, assuming that we have an absolute priority, which at this moment is to keep the epidemiological curve under control, not to frustrate what has been done so far and to defend our country to the full. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u103	Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u104	Minister, I understand the emergency, but I was referring above all to those countries where there is an absolute prohibition of transit and, only for reasons of work, study or health, exceptionally, you can return to Italy. The "Love is not tourism" network asks to include among the reasons listed also the actual coexistence, i.e. an unmarried couple but having a sentimental relationship. I realize that it is not easy to determine when there is a sentimental relationship. You think that in Norway it is enough that the couple has been together for nine months and the two have once seen each other in their lives to talk about sentimental relationship. While aware, therefore, of the difficulty of establishing criteria, I also think, however, that people should have the right to reunite with their affections.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u105	Senator Totaro has the right to explain the question 3-01834 on the extension of waiting lists for health services, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u106	Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Brothers of Italy Group has tabled this question because, as you will be aware, the serious situations which have occurred following the Covid-19 pandemic have led to a worsening and worsening of a problem that we know in Italy, that of waiting lists for health benefits. Sometimes we talk about waiting lists of months, which, unfortunately, have temporarily stretched a lot. We have news - you will surely know them - very fragmentary about this, which comes to us from the Regions, which speak of hundreds of thousands more people on the waiting list. It's all stuck. It has been thought, rightly - we have followed what you have done - to the coronavirus, but we do not just die of that; there are other fatal diseases, such as cancers rather than cardiovascular diseases or anything else. In this sense, the extension of the waiting lists involves a very serious problem for the Italian population precisely because of the levels of assistance that we can guarantee to Italian citizens. You know very well that there is a fragmentary situation, Minister, and with our question we ask you first of all to know the situation Region by Region, because we have very varied news; therefore, a national intervention, which obviously must take the Government forward in order to avoid inequalities certainly existing at territorial level and not worthy of a country like ours, which thinks of national cohesion as an essential point of reference. It is also important to take action in the light of what may happen in the autumn: that is, we need to prepare a health care system that is able to address issues relating to Covid and not Covid and, therefore, to separate the two levels of care and intervention. Minister, I reiterate the need for a national plan to return the waiting lists, ensuring the necessary additional financial resources and activating effective coordination between the State and the Regions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u107	The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u108	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Totaro and the Fratelli d'Italia Group for their question. I think this is a decisive issue for the coming weeks. You, Senator Totaro, said well: there is no doubt that in recent months the National Health Service has committed all its energies to addressing the emergency Covid and could not objectively be that way. Our doctors and nurses have incessantly used all the hours at their disposal to face a new enemy, invisible and absolutely insidious, which has put under pressure, in a completely new way, our health facilities. As I said before, I think that we are in a different phase, in which we need to start working again on all the ordinary functions of the National Health Service, because there is a great truth: the Covid has been our first enemy of the last few months, but has not stopped the other pathologies that are still present and that - alas - have continued to walk even in these months. There is no doubt that in recent months there has been a delay: so many visits that could and should have been made in March, April or May have been postponed. We are working on this point through two substantial legs: the first is a punctual reconnaissance, which we have been doing for a few days already, in collaboration with all the Regions, to understand what is the exact need we are talking about; the second will have to be the setting up, immediately, of new resources for a real extraordinary plan of new investments to recover the waiting lists. I can say from today that in the next decree that will be adopted at the beginning of August, because of the deviation that yesterday the Senate of the Republic and the Chamber of Deputies have authorized, we will indicate very significant resources that I asked the Minister of Economy precisely to finance this extraordinary plan. I mean that the National Health Service will not stop in the summer: we will try to increase the times and days of availability to meet this need. We clearly need more resources. Let me just remind you that over the last five months on the National Health Service more resources have been put than in the last five years; there had never been such a strong investment in the history of this country. [[Applause]] I think it is the right way and we will work immediately to respond to this need.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u109	Senator Totaro has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u110	Minister Speranza, thank you for your reply. Not out of distrust of you, but I'm not satisfied with the answer, and not because you don't represent something different compared to a government often composed of patackers and sellers of chatter and smoke. Frankly, we are very concerned about what can happen from here to the next few months, because the problem of long waiting lists exists and is very serious, in the sense that we have serial citizens and serial citizens b: those who can afford it are paid to visit, while those who cannot risk dying waiting for the health services of the National Health Service. It is a very serious fact that concerns social justice in our country: we should all be equal, as our Constitution establishes and, instead, there is a clear difference between those who have the money to pay for paid visits and those who do not have them. Let's talk about people's lives. Minister, I take note of your speech. I think we must act with the help of all. As you will have seen, even at this stage we have always made proposals, never in a confused way, but always in the direction of the interest of our nation and our people. We really want this census to be carried out and, from this point to September, we want an intervention to be made with regard to the Covid and No Covid departments. In hospitals you cannot block everything because there is Covid, because you also die of other pathologies. We differ the interventions and we destinate the resources, because there can be a lot of chatter. You said more resources were allocated. And I say, thank you, there was the pandemic and I wanted to see if we couldn't do this. We must do even more and much better, because waiting lists in a civil country at a global level such as Italy cannot be accepted because they belong to third world countries. We cannot accept this and, if the problem is not solved, we will always denounce it when the opportunity arises.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u111	Senator Binetti has the right to explain the question 3-01836 on the interruption of health benefits for children with disabilities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u112	Minister, as you well know, we have spoken on several occasions to protect the rights of disabled children and, therefore, to support their families. Speaking of disabled children, using this expression in the broadest possible sense at the moment, I am referring to those who can be included in the autistic spectrum, but also to those who are more specifically motor-type difficulties or even those who are considered to be uncomfortable in terms of cognitive skills, of which we often ignore the reasons for the delay, but which are real and which define this small universe of disabled children. Well, these children were the most penalized on the occasion of the recent lockdown, and they were for a very simple reason: first of all they did not receive that type of specific support that the specialized centers offer them. They are children accustomed to having a qualified physiotherapy almost daily, who attend stimulation centers through techniques that enhance practices such as hippotherapy or pet therapy; they are children who need support through logotherapy. They are, that is, children who need a resource supplement, but who have not had it, although it is a right for them. They are children who have been neglected quite often (I would say in 90 percent of cases) also from those forms of support that come through the teaching of support, the teacher of support in the classroom; they have also been excluded from all techniques made of webinar and from distance teaching. They have been imprisoned in their home and families have had to bear their full weight; moreover, in particular, this work is always the responsibility of mothers, who have carried out all kinds of activities with regard to them. The worst thing is that, while a thousand other facilities have reopened - of course we know that the school has not reopened - even the highly specialised centres dealing with these children have not reopened and they could have perfectly equipped for their reception. As you can see, the written question is broader and more articulated and, therefore, you will be able to collect much more data, but the question I am asking you, Minister, is divided into three points which I consider to be - let me do so - the most responsible of all: the first is the reopening of the centres in question; the second is the possibility of reintegrating periods of lack of support through forms of personal support and the third - what worries me equally and probably more - is for you to be an interpreter of your fellow Minister of Education because these children lack nothing, not even the opportunity of a single day when they can go to school and receive all the help they need. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Health, Mr Hope, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u113	Mr President, I would like to thank Senator Binetti for this question on a very important subject which affects all our consciences. I have read your question very carefully, which I consider to be full of interesting ideas for the work of the next few weeks. For my part, there is all the will to respond positively to all three of the issues you have tried to raise. I agree on a fundamental point, which I believe is particularly true for our most fragile children in situations of difficulty, but perhaps also more generally for all the fragility of our country. There is no doubt that the whole country has paid a huge price for lockdown, but it has paid an even higher price who was in a situation of greater weakness. In essence, this means that lockdown has led to an increase in inequalities, because those who are stronger naturally can better deal with a new, very complicated and very difficult situation. And I think this is a subject that we need to take care of. On how to do this, I believe that there is a need for a strong and new role of the State and in particular for the opening of a new investment season. I do not always want to go back to this point, but I believe that the essential question is always the following: we have come from a too long season, in which the National Health Service has been made inadmissible cuts and we must have the courage to say that that season of cuts is finally closed and that instead, a new, great season of investments opens. We have started to do so, not enough, but this is the right direction. I am thinking, for example, of the relaunch decree, of the EUR 750 million that we have allocated for home care, which is a great intervention that tries to respond to at least a part of the fragility that you too have quickly indicated. Finally, let me remind you of one point, which was contained in the question and which seems to me to be of particular importance. On 28 July I set up the new Commission for the updating of essential levels of assistance (LEA). I think that's where we play a strategic game for our country. The essential levels of assistance are the basic services that our State offers free of charge to every person and represent the most beautiful symbol of Article 32 of our Constitution, which we must defend with all the energy we have, always putting at the centre that citizen-patient that I believe must be the true heart of our National Health Service. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Binetti has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u114	Mr Minister, we are going to look into all this, really believing that there is an intention to compensate for the shortcomings that will arise in the situation that we are about to live on, but also with the awareness that we have failed to take responsibility for the events that have just happened. There is an almost compensatory desire for these children and their families, which requires a renewed commitment on our part. Minister, one aspect seems particularly important to me. We are in front of children of evolutionary age and we are defending their rights. The fact that today we take charge of their right to health, but also to receive all the necessary means to achieve the maximum possible autonomy within their situation, means a considerable saving for her in five, ten, fifteen or twenty-five years, because a person who is able to become autonomous today costs much less to the national health system and we consider it an investment. The right to health is not a cost: protecting it is an investment and, if we are dealing with children with difficulties, it is a moral duty for all of us. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u115	The immediate question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u116	Colleagues, as has already been announced, the sitting is continuing, so that senators who have not already done so can vote on the report of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities on the request for authorization to proceed to trial against Senator Matteo Salvini in his capacity as Minister for the Interior pro tempore. The vote will be allowed until 6 p.m.: until then the sitting will remain open: then the vote and the proclamation of the result will take place. If someone is to vote, they can do so by going under the Presidency's benches. It is possible that the chair has a different disposition (I will not be present at 6 p.m.). As this is not the end of the sitting, we cannot give a voice to the speeches on items not on the agenda. I will be informed to see if it will be possible to intervene at 6 p.m. and you will know it at the appropriate time. (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - 4:29 p.m. - at 4.30 p.m.) - 5.32 p.m. - 6.15 p.m. -). As announced, the vote closed at 6 p.m. and the Secretary Senators counted the votes. I therefore declare the result of the roll-call vote on the conclusions of the Assembly of Parliamentary Elections and Immunities to refuse authorization to proceed to trial under Article 96 of the Constitution against Senator Matteo Salvini, in his capacity as Minister of the Interior pro tempore (Doc. IV-a, No 3: [[Senators present 293 Senators voting 291 Absolute majority of members of the Senate 160 Favorable 141 Contrari 149 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Pursuant to Rule 135- bis, paragraph 8, of the Rules of Procedure, due to the failure to reach an absolute majority of the members of the Assembly, the conclusions of the Assembly are to be rejected.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u117	The Conference of Leaders approved the timetable for next week's work. Tuesday, August 4th will be dedicated to the work of the Commissions. The Assembly will meet on Wednesday 5th and Thursday 6th August to discuss the following topics: from the drafting venue, the bill on the safety of health professions, already approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies; the bill on the ratification of the Cooperation Agreement with Argentina in the field of defence; the report of the Committee of Inquiry into the waste cycle related to the epidemiological emergency Covid-19. The question time will take place at 3 p.m. on Thursday 6 August.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u118	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting today, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the calendar of proceedings of the Assembly until August 6: [[Wednesday, August 5 h. 9.30-20 - Drawing of law n. 867-B - Safety health professions (approved by the Senate and amended by the Chamber of Deputies) - Drawing of law n. 1086 - Ratification of the Cooperation Agreement with Argentina in the field of defence - Doc. XXIII, point 4 - Commission report on the waste cycle on the epidemiological emergency Covid-19 - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure (Thursday, 3 p.m.) Thursday 6th h. 9.30 a.m.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u119	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u120	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u121	DI NICOLA (M5S). Mr President, I bring to the House the protest of hundreds of thousands of citizens of Abruzzo, Lazio and Campania, faced with the disaster caused by the pollution of the river Liri, for decades object, on the one hand of exploitation and unconditioned spills, on the other of defense and protection by associations and citizens. Among the problems, the massive exploitation by hydroelectric power plants - six - as well as a series of episodes that have evidenced phenomena of foam, pollution and death of fish. With regard to hydro-electric exploitation, for example, a sensible and brutal policy led seventy years ago even to the deviation of the river within a tunnel dug in the Simbruini Mountains in order to feed downstream of the hydroelectric power stations. This unholy choice has led to the annihilation of an economy and a thousand-year-old culture linked to the river, its resources and its economic activities, however, triggering a impoverishment so dramatic that it provokes mass migration and the depopulation of entire countries, starting with Castellafiume, which still serve this deprivation today. For all this I ask that the river be returned to its millennial course to give at least breath back to the environmental and tourist initiatives that could be started in a short time. Then there is the other aspect of the carelessness; already in September 2017 in Civitella Roveto had been detected water of a purple color. Following this episode many associations have formed on the territory, associations that today denounce exploitation and pollution of the river, as happened in May following a mysterious foam detected at the height of the Municipality of Capistrello and the emissary that in the river brings together the waters coming from the Piana del Fucino. The alarm was triggered; there were meetings with the mayors, the Marsican Aqueduct Consortium, the Burgo paper mill and other subjects. There is an open judicial investigation, but after more than two months no results have yet been achieved, while the river continues to be polluted and the fish to die. Whose fault is that? The companies that operate on the territory? Of the agricultural activity of the same Piana del Fucino? Of the purification plants of the municipalities from several sources defined not in order? We are waiting to know and know. In the meantime, I would ask the Minister for the Environment, Mr Costa, to intervene to assess the scale of the disaster and Mr Enel and the other bodies involved to immediately assess the possibility of eliminating the shame of the diversion of the river to power power stations, which could now be replaced by other sources of production which could safely produce the same quantities of energy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u122	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-07-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-247.ana.u123	The Senate will meet again in public session on Wednesday, August 5, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 18.23 a.m.
