ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.32 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u3	He asked the President of the 2nd Permanent Commission, Senator Ostellari, to report on the work of the Permanent Commission on draft law No 1786. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u4	Mr President, the 2nd Commission is due to meet at 10.30 a.m. and still has 143 amendments to consider. I therefore believe that it is impossible for the measure to be ready for debate in this House today. Probably ready for Tuesday afternoon instead.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u5	In relation to Senator Ostellari's report, the discussion of the draft law on the agenda is postponed to another sitting. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. We will resume our work on the so-called question time. (The sitting was suspended at 9.39 a.m. and resumed at 15.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u6	The next item is the immediate question time (so-called question time) under Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, to which the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Justice will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Magorno has the right to explain the question 3-01676 on the budgetary spaces and the powers of ordinance of the Municipalities, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u7	Minister, I would like to thank you for the valuable work you have done in recent months during the epidemic and for your willingness to cooperate with the local authorities, as demonstrated in the recent videoconference with the mayors of the metropolitan cities. The epidemiological emergency from Covid-19 has drastically endangered the economic stability of citizens, families, businesses and the whole country system. The necessary measures taken to cope with the pandemic have had - and continue to have - dramatic consequences for the Italian socio-economic fabric. In this context, local authorities are among the situations most of all facing the most negative effects of the emergency: the suspension of tax obligations, on the one hand, and the increase in demand for essential services for citizens, on the other hand, have progressively consumed the remaining economic resources available to them. Today, the financial stability of local authorities is seriously impaired: it is no longer possible to delay with respect to the need to provide all territorial authorities with greater budgetary flexibility and a suspension for the current year of the most burdensome burdens and to allocate more resources to them, including through the refinancing of instruments adopted during the epidemic, which allows them to draw on the necessary liquidity to be able to carry out the fundamental functions assigned to them. Similarly, local authorities need additional resources to ensure security, especially in urban centres. In fact, the impact of the virus on people's health has been greatly reduced thanks to compliance with the restrictive measures adopted by the Government. It is last March, in this regard, the letter that I also addressed as mayor to the attention of his Ministry and with which I highlighted the need, manifested above all by the Municipalities of the Mezzogiorno, to strengthen the staff of the local police, in order to ensure, at the time, an even more effective vigilance than the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of contagions. However, it still remains unchanged today, just over a month after the end of the lockdown and following the progressive reopenings granted by virtue of the reduction of the level of contagions, the same need for social control, which is indeed made even more stringent by the serious episodes of irregular gatherings that we have recently witnessed also by my parts, that not only risk endangering the health of the citizens, but can also frustrate the sacrifices made in recent months by the entire national community to get out of the emergency. In conclusion, for these reasons, we would like to ask you what your orientations are with regard to the issues you have just described and what urgent initiatives you intend to take in order to deal with them. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the question is about the difficult financial situation in which local authorities are located, even more at this difficult time of history, and it is asked to know what support initiatives can be taken to support them. The Government has paid particular attention to the needs of local authorities, in the awareness of the absolute need to safeguard their financial capacity, so that quality public services can be provided and social welfare networks guaranteed. Among the initiatives undertaken, I recall that last March 29 the Ministry of the Interior made provision to anticipate, compared to the ordinary deadline of May, the issue of payment mandates relating to the first instalment of the City Solidarity Fund, equal to 66% of the total amount. Resources for 2020, amounting to around €4.3 billion, were allocated to 6.579 municipalities. As a further measure, the Ministry of the Interior has already distributed the resources of the two funds established by Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, i.e. EUR 70 million for the contribution to the financing of the costs of sanitization of the offices and the means of the local authorities and 10 million for the provision of compensation for extraordinary work, carried out by the staff of the local police. Moreover, in implementation of the so-called I throw again decree - Decree-Law No 34 of 2020 - on May 29 was arranged the payment in favour of municipalities, provinces and metropolitan cities of 30% of their due shares of the fund aimed at ensuring the resources for the performance of the fundamental functions, to which they are allocated a total of 3.5 billion for the year 2020. It was then arranged, on 28 May, the payment in favour of the municipalities most affected by the epidemic - we are talking about Brescia, Bergamo, Lodi, Cremona and Piacenza - of the resources available on the specific fund, for a total of 200 million euros. Finally, as part of a broader strategy aimed at providing the territorial authorities with greater resources and flexibility of intervention, three funds were established at the Ministry of the Interior, with total resources of around €300 million for the refreshment of the minor revenues suffered by the municipalities. The relevant implementing decrees are being finalised. As mentioned, just last Tuesday I held a videoconference with the mayors of the metropolitan cities: the long and constructive confrontation allowed to analyze some issues reported by the mayors, relative to the security of the territories and the economic difficulties highlighted above. I have shared the need expressed by the mayors to strengthen controls in the neighbourhoods of the movida, stressing the need to continue in close collaboration with the local self-governments. The forecast of the ineffectiveness of the orders adopted by the mayors in contrast to the state and regional measures must be read with a view to the necessary harmonisation of the initiatives taken: these measures are obviously contingent, destined to disappear at the end of the emergent phase. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I have the right to speak in response to Senator Beginini for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u9	Minister, thank you for your reply. Certainly, the commitment of his ministry and his in particular are to be appreciated, because it is perceptible the effort that is being made. At the same time, also because of the role he previously played as prefect, he is well aware of the importance of the role played by the mayors on the territory. Today we no longer have only one issue related to the financial system, which risks jumping for the reasons we have dealt with in this question, but there are also social dynamics that become heavy. At a time when a series of activities should not start again, the Municipality with its budget would certainly have a financial backlash for the missed revenues deriving from the IMU, the Tari and from a series of other tributes, but, at the same time, a social problem would arise, because, as you know, cities that turn out to be no longer alive become less secure. The effort that government and Parliament must therefore make together must be maximum, not only on a limited financial issue, but precisely for a reason linked to the livability of our cities, which, if livable and alive, are certainly safer. On this point, we encourage you to engage in dialogue with the mayors, even metropolitans, to find together the right balance points in order to promote both the appropriate budgetary arrangements and the measures that allow our cities to return to being alive, therefore safe.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u10	Senator Fazzolari has the right to explain the question 3-01672 on the management of immigration from the Malta agreements of 2019, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u11	Mr President, Minister, on 23 September 2019 a summit was held in Malta between the Ministers of the Interior of France, Germany, Italy, Malta and Finland (who had the presidency of the European Union) and the then European Commissioner for Migration. The purpose of the meeting was to find a shared solution for the management of landings in the central Mediterranean. The public is well aware of Malta's famous agreement, because the government and the majority forces gave him great publicity, claiming that finally the problem of the landings of illegal immigrants in Italy had been solved: the President of the Count Council spoke of a historical step; she, Minister Lamorgese, declared that since that day Italy would not be alone; it was said that, thanks to the agreement of Malta, all migrants landed in Italy and Malta would be redistributed among the other Member States of the European Union. Brothers of Italy immediately pointed out that the Malta agreement, as interpreted by the Italian Government, was destined to fail at the start, because in every formal and informal forum the Member States had said and repeated that a possible redistribution agreement would concern only true refugees and not even economic migrants, a concept reiterated, among others, also by French President Macron. The official numbers say that only a small part of those who land in Italy have the right to international protection under the Geneva Convention or the subsidiary of the European Union (about 15%, according to the statistics of the Viminale). It was therefore difficult to claim that an agreement would be passed in Europe which would in fact turn Italy into the gateway for any irregular immigrant, who would then be conveniently redistributed among the other Member States. In fact, the Malta agreement has never been included on the agenda of the European Council in nine months. Meanwhile, however, illegal landings in Italy have continued: since the signing of the Malta Agreement, out of 11,800 irregular landings, only 464 have been redistributed in Europe (i.e. only 3,9 percent or, if you prefer, 96 percent of those who have landed in Italy have remained in our country). Faced with this evidence, Brothers of Italy asks the Government whether it has taken note of the manifest failure of the Malta agreements and what urgent initiatives it intends to take to ensure the fight against illegal immigration on our territory.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u12	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the questioners, when referring to Malta's joint declaration of intent of 23 September last, are asking to know what measures the Government intends to take to combat illegal immigration. Firstly, I think it is necessary to point out that the Malta Agreement has been a crucial step for Europe's greater involvement in the management of migration. For the first time, in fact, France and Germany have made formal commitments for the redistribution on their territories of immigrants landed in Italy. I have reiterated on several occasions that I do not consider Malta's understanding to be a point of arrival, as a strong push to develop an overall strategy for reforming migration policies, for which we are working intensively with a view to the forthcoming European negotiations. During the period of existence of the Malta mechanism (which with the coronavirus has stopped), 540 migrants were transferred, equal to 86 percent of the relocations carried out in total, with a concentration in the period December-February. Before the Malta Agreement, a total of 85 units had been relocated. I would like to point out that the European Commission - both outgoing and incoming - supports the mechanism agreed in Malta, recognizing it as a model for future initiatives, including with a view to the adoption of the new European Pact on Migration and Asylum and its proposals for reform of the common European asylum system. We have also moved on with other initiatives. Firstly, I would like to point out that on 9 April, together with France and Germany, we wrote to the European Commission, recognising the need to create a binding mechanism for fair distribution according to specific criteria, particularly when a Member State is under disproportionate pressure. This letter clarifies how the Italian action with France and Germany has consolidated an important union of intentions, given the complex European negotiating context. I also recall the initiative recently taken on 5 June, which for the first time saw five Mediterranean countries (Italy as leader, together with Cyprus, Greece, Malta and Spain) present to the Commission, on the eve of the Justice and Home Affairs Council, a joint position aimed at supporting, again in this case, the creation of a compulsory and automatic mechanism for the allocation of responsibilities on asylum applications, based on a pro quota distribution for each Member State. This initiative represents an important step towards the recognition of the specificity of the European external maritime borders and the mandatory procedures for the relocation of migrants. As part of the proposals put forward, we are receiving positive signals from the European Commission and the various partners on the prospect that we have indicated to adopt European guidelines for the research and rescue activities at sea carried out by private vessels, with the aim of defining uniform technical standards for such operations and making flag States responsible. The European Commission and the next German Presidency will also work with our country to organise a special conference on the fight against the smuggling of migrants, including with the participation of the countries of North Africa. The initiative aims to guide the future strategy, based also on instruments of partnership with third countries funded by Europe, aimed at accelerating the use of information exchange platforms between police forces and European agencies and enhancing the role of the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex). I should like to conclude by pointing out that the initiatives taken are already enabling Italy to direct the Commission's forthcoming proposals, with regard to the recognition of the particularities related to rescue activities at sea and the consequent need to provide for ad hoc mechanisms for the redistribution of migrants landed following search and rescue (SAR) operations; these are issues that had never been developed on the European agenda and I believe that this is a great step forward. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I give the floor to Senator Fazzolari to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u14	Mr President, I cannot be satisfied, but I am disappointed. Minister, I'm sorry, there are numbers, we can't tell you more. 86% of total relocations were made by the Malta Agreement onwards: but what statistics is that? Statistics are another: 96 percent of those who land in Italy remain in Italy; to this they had to answer. You can't answer me with other statistics, like 86% of those landed are blond. The question was: why did 96 percent of those landed stay in Italy, since the Government had declared that there was a wonderful agreement, that it would carry out a redistribution throughout Europe? That was the question and you didn't answer. I inform you that our Services - which you certainly know much better than I do - have declared that there are 20,000 migrants ready from the Libyan coasts. The United Nations says 650,000 migrants are ready to leave. That is not enough - you mentioned - for letters, conferences and commitments. The General States at Villa Pamphili sound a lot, but here we need answers, not catwalks or letters, conferences or commitments. We want to know how Italy will ensure the defence of its borders, which are also the external borders of the European Union. We didn't get an answer. We repeat a suggestion: we need a naval blockade off the Libyan coast to prevent boats from leaving, to stop the business of boatmen and NGOs, to prevent deaths at sea and to restore legality in Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u15	Senator De Petris has the right to explain the question 3-01677 on the exploitation of workers in buildings, also in relation to immigration legislation, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u16	Mr President, Minister, you are certainly aware of and will have followed the story of Thomas Daniel, who for many days has remained without identification, died together with Ciro Perrucci, of sixty-one years, another exploited mason worker, who worked in black in the district of Pianura, a western outskirts of Naples, sadly known, among other things, for many phenomena of abuse. Both, Thomas Daniel and Ciro Perrucci, worked in black and were killed on June 1st. By the way, Thomas Daniel's story is quite paradigmatic, as you will understand, of the development of the situation in recent times, after the so-called security decrees. Thomas Daniel, in fact, together with his wife, had applied for political asylum, which had not been granted him, while he had received a residence permit for humanitarian reasons. With the abolition of humanitarian protection, its condition, together with that of thousands of people in Italy, has become that of real ghosts, subject to incredible exploitation. I would like to refer to you, Minister, the case of the Head of State, who, as you know, is not only a matter of agriculture. This is one of the reasons why we asked for regularisation to be extended to the construction sector. Returning to the story and to the main issues, also connected to the regularization previewed in the I throw again decree, do you not think, also in the light of the episodes of purchase of contracts that are happening, that it is necessary to intervene again on the matter, perhaps extending it also to the fields of the construction? What other forms can we put in place to pursue the phenomenon of caporalate within the construction sector? PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recalling the tragic episode of the death of two workers in a construction site, the questioners draw attention to the need to intervene effectively in the fight against the caporalate, also calling for changes to be made to the so-called security decrees. As is known, in the morning of June 1st in the Municipality of Naples, in the locality of Pianura, there has been the collapse of an embankment overlooking an abusive property of two floors, currently being built. The landslide event has unfortunately caused the death of two workers, an Italian citizen and a Liberian. Allow me to address a thought of closeness to the families of the two workers. [[Applause.]] The investigation by the judicial authority is still under way. In relation to the phenomenon of the caporalate I point out that the commitment and determination of all institutions against all forms of exploitation of labour by those who impose degrading living conditions on workers and workers, taking advantage of their state of vulnerability or need. This is in defence of the rights of workers and businesses who choose to operate in the legal field. This is demonstrated in a tangible way by the results of the judiciary and law enforcement. Among other things, just yesterday, the Finance Guard conducted a brilliant operation that has removed two criminal organizations, operating between Calabria and Basilicata, dedicated to the illicit recruitment of agricultural workers, to the exploitation of work, to the aiding of illegal immigration. Moreover, with specific reference to the caporalate, in the field of the construction last 26 May the State Police has concluded also an operation that has led to the execution of protective measures in prison against ten subjects considered responsible for association for criminals and numerous other crimes connected to the recruitment and the exploitation of the workers in numerous construction sites in Tuscany and Puglia. With regard to the recent measures taken on the emergence of irregular work, I would like to point out that the objective has been to affect certain sectors where the presence of so-called undeclared work is significantly higher than the average recorded in other sectors, with a high risk of illegality and abuse. With the said intervention the Government has intended to guarantee in the emerging context that we are living the dignity of the people, the safety of the workers, the protection of the legality and the requirements of the labour market. Finally, with regard to the request made by the questioner regarding the corrective actions of the security decrees, I confirm that the work carried out by the Viminale already before the emergency Covid-19 can be resumed with the modalities identified collegially by the Government, in a context certainly less characterized by emerging needs such as what we have just experienced.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u18	Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u19	Mr President, I would also like to thank the Minister for recalling the work of revising the security decrees. We, with this question, have called for it to be resumed and I am comforted that you confirm the need to return to the security decrees, remembering the fact that only with the abolition of humanitarian protection have we created about 110,000 irregular ghosts. I am aware of your commitment to the fight against the caporalate and all forms of illegality, but I ask you to realize that at the time of the application of regularisation, we must have even more control over what is happening. In fact, there are reports of exploitation also in the context of the same regularization. News has even come out about the sale of employment contracts. This means that perhaps we need to do even more to make those rules absolutely guaranteed, to protect those who need to see their rights guaranteed. I would also like to reiterate that the construction sector, as we pointed out, is also one of those sectors which may need further efforts to start a regularisation process.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u20	Senator Tosato has the right to explain the question 3-01673 on the adoption of a plan to combat illegal immigration for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u21	Mr President, Minister, the data published by the Ministry of the Interior have shown that from 1 January to 8 June 2020, in a little more than five months, 5.472 migrants have landed in our territory irregularly compared to 2,033 landed during the same period of 2019: an increase of almost 200 percent, bearing in mind also that in March-April these landings have slowed down due to the lack of activity of NGO ships. In the face of these issues, the Maltese Government has assumed, for example, a policy of rejections; the Italian Government has even launched signals of encouragement for the reception of illegal immigrants on our territory, providing for the regularization of 600,000 irregulars, and has emphasized the urgent need to have new places for the reception of asylum seekers in the face of arrivals that are estimated at 20,000 units. Well, during the period of the health emergency, a strict social distancing regime was imposed for all Italian citizens, who were forced to stay indoors for months: closed businesses, closed shops, everything closed. The borders between the European States have been sealed; even the link between the Regions has been banned and has only recently been reopened. Apart from the release of criminals and mobsters promoted by your Government during this period, a single border has never been closed, that of the Mediterranean, which allowed the continuous landing in Italy of illegals. Minister, the numbers speak for themselves: your Government has compromised everything good that the previous one did, or rather everything good that Minister Salvini had done. [[Applause]] In a year, Minister Salvini has reduced the illegal entry of illegal immigrants to a historical minimum; he has fought with firmness and courage the trafficking of human beings in the Mediterranean; he has cut off the millionaire business of the reception in our country, saving the Italians hundreds of millions of euros; he has taken a clear and clear position towards Europe. It has shown that with courage and determination, unexpected results can be achieved. Well, Minister, we ask you, in the face of these numbers, what you intend to do to curb this continuous landing of immigrants, because we do not care about the policy of redistribution unless the policy of blocking arrivals is dealt with seriously and effectively, as has been done effectively in the last year of government by the League and Minister Matteo Salvini. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u22	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u23	The questioners, in drawing attention to the issue of illegal immigration, ask what initiatives the Government intends to take to combat the phenomenon of trafficking in human beings. Evidence in advance that cooperation with countries of origin, transit and destination of flows remains essential in the fight against the smuggling of migrants. Italy has concluded numerous readmission agreements, in force with different countries of priority interest, and continues to dialogue with the main partners in order to seek effective solutions in order to ensure a more orderly management of migratory flows in a legal framework, strengthening the collaboration activity in the field of return. This is an aspect that our country is also promoting in Brussels, where for a long time, in view of the drafting of the new Pact on Migration and Asylum, the need to consolidate the European dialogue with third countries, including through the allocation of adequate financial resources, is supported by asserting the Union's negotiating weight on the issue of return. Action to combat trafficking in migrants and trafficking in human beings is of fundamental importance for the development of migration management policies. In this context, the initiatives of police cooperation aimed at developing info-investigative collaborations both in the European and international contexts take on strategic importance. I would remind you that the State Police Central Operational Service is at the forefront of the fundamental fight against transnational criminal organisations dedicated to facilitating irregular immigration and working fruitfully with similar European and non-European investigative bodies and Europol. In the context of Europol, the Central Operational Service has a significant role to play, with many initiatives aimed at facilitating and improving cooperation with the countries of the Western Balkans. Moreover, the cooperation for which the European Commission has already allocated EUR 7.5 million to Austria, France, Germany and the Netherlands to counter the activities carried out by the Nigerian criminal organisations involved in the trafficking and facilitation of illegal immigration. As far as maritime surveillance of the national coasts is concerned, I would like to point out that Operation Themis is still under way, aimed at controlling irregular migratory flows in the central Mediterranean and bilateral meetings with Frontex are under way, with the aim of preparing the new operational plan for activities, also thanks to European funding. As for Operation Irini, it must be pointed out that the same is primarily aimed at facilitating the resolution of the Libyan crisis and it is evident, however, that the stabilisation of Libya is functional to the better management of migratory flows. Finally, I would like to point out that, at the initiative of the Italian Government, the European Commission and the next German Presidency of the European Union will work together to organise a special conference on the fight against the smuggling of migrants with the participation of the countries of North Africa. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Tosato may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u24	I am sorry, Minister, but our Group cannot be satisfied with its response, because beyond the listing of all the good intentions and policies that you intend to promote, the numbers speak clearly, do not lie and show that there has been an increase of almost 200 percent of the landings and this evidence that the various policies implemented by this Government are identical to those of the Gentiloni Silveri and Renzi governments, which allowed the invasion of our country by irregular migrants. [[Applause.]] Numbers don't lie and they have to be read for who they are. We're not here, and the chatter is down to zero. The emergency's gonna blow up again. After emptying many reception centers during the previous government, we now risk returning to the indiscriminate arrival on the territories borne by the municipalities of thousands of irregulars seeking accommodation, accommodation and maintenance by the state and therefore by Italian citizens. We want an effective policy against landings and not a policy of chatter and alleged relocations, which do not address and seriously resolve the problem. The truth is that with the new government PD-LEU-Renzi-5 Stars everything has returned as before, even worse than before. [[Applause.]] We do not claim the answers as a League Group in the Senate, but Italian citizens demand them. They are not coming and you are demonstrating that, just as you are inert and unreliable in the emergency we are facing at the health level, but above all at the economic level, even on the immigration front you are not up to it and our concern is very high, as I believe is that of our entire national community. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u25	Senator Croatti has the right to explain the question 3-01671 on the risks of spreading wear and tear and recycling, especially with regard to tourism businesses, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u26	Minister, the Coronavirus emergency in Italy is in danger of bringing down a strategic sector of our country, thousands of Italian companies and millions of families. Among the sectors most in crisis there is just that of tourism, zeroed after the lockdown. In our country the sector is very important, it is worth 13% of the gross domestic product and in some territories like the Riviera Romagnola tourism is worth even 30% of GDP. The tourism sector and its companies are weak and vulnerable at this time. It is estimated that 95 percent of the accommodation facilities were closed in the spring. The quarter of March, April and May is destined to close with the zeroing of revenues and many accommodation facilities are opening, with the summer season at the gates, but the difficulties are evident. With the reduction in turnover, many tourist companies may also have difficulty in covering fixed operating costs. Many will suffer losses, resulting in failures, triggering a dangerous spiral of closures and asset sales. Many tourist companies could end up in dark areas. In mid-April, the head of Cabinet of the Ministry of the Interior, Matteo Plantadosi, sent a circular to all Prefects, issuing a warning on the risk of mafia infiltrations in sectors made more vulnerable by the crisis. On 16 April last, the Financial Information Unit, the anti-money laundering arm of the Bank of Italy, launched an alarm for the danger of scams, corrupting phenomena, possible speculative maneuvers also of an international character and attempts to divert and appropriation of public interventions in support of liquidity, as well as for the risk that the economic weakening of families and enterprises can increase the episodes of usury and can facilitate the direct or indirect acquisition of companies by criminal organizations. The prefect of Rimini, Alessandra Camporota, on April 22 has highlighted the risk, taken up also by the newspaper "Il Sole 24 Ore" that the mafia could exploit the virus to infiltrate some areas and there would be many predatory offers, that could arrive on the hotels of the Riviera Romagna. The large availability of liquidity accumulated by the Mafia, through traditional illicit businesses, can further facilitate the recycling and penetration of the illegal economy, in the most diverse forms. It is therefore asked to know whether the Minister in address is closely monitoring this situation, in particular in the weaker and more fragile territories, following the emergency of the Covid-19, what are the structures, instruments and resources put in place to address the risks highlighted and whether regulatory measures are being studied, allowing to strengthen, at this stage, the anti-recycling controls. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u27	The Minister for the Interior, Mr Lamorgese, has the right to reply to the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member draws attention to the danger that the current health emergency may be an opportunity for enrichment for organised crime. The moment we are going through is certainly one of the most difficult in the history of the Republic. The current emergency phase, which has profoundly affected the economic and social fabric, and the resulting liquidity deficit, combined with the influx of substantial public funding, both national and European, create risk conditions and margins of infiltration for organised crime into the legal economy. It concerns all sectors, including tourism. On these issues I drew the utmost attention of the police forces and every effort to intercept and counter the possible new dynamics of criminal action, also because of the strong economic vocation of organized crime and its ability to abruptly adapt to social and productive changes. Moreover, already on April 10, with a specific directive addressed to the prefects, I urged an intelligence action on the territory, aimed at enhancing the info-investigative evidence and the activity of analysis of the contexts and criminal phenomena by the police, precisely to ensure the coordinates of legality, in the delicate phase of resumption of economic activities. The strategies put in place by the police forces rely on a complex and in-depth action, aimed at anticipating every initiative of alteration of the market, pollution of the economic fabric, conditioning of the public decision-making processes, functional to the award of contracts. The substantial financial interventions launched by the Government make it necessary to find the right balance between the timeliness of disbursements and controls. For these purposes, as provided for in the so-called liquidity decree-law of 8 April 2020, the Protocol of Understanding with the Minister of Economy and Finance and SACE SpA has been signed and the Protocol with the Revenue Agency, provided for in Article 25, paragraph 9, of Decree-Law No 34 has just been finalised, still under conversion. At the same time, in order to facilitate access to credit and intercept every sign of possible disintegration of the economic and social fabric, I asked the prefects to take initiatives with the ABI and the trade associations, giving the maximum impetus to the activity of confrontation with the institutional actors and the territorial representatives of the productive categories, the social partners and the financial and credit system. The prefectures have strengthened the monitoring and analysis of the criticalities present on the territory, also through special meetings of provincial committees for order and public security and has been started a specific programming of the interventions in support of the legal economy and the social groups most exposed, in order to protect social cohesion. It is at this time that the state must demonstrate that it is close to its citizens, especially in situations of extreme need, and to businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, that more than others have suffered from the closure of productive and commercial activities and that, therefore, they can become easy prey to criminal organizations. The fight against the mafias is a priority and the attention dedicated by all the members of the Administration of the interior is maximum: on this we are present with our commitment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Croatti has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u29	Thank you, Minister, I am pleased with the answer. Two elements actually emerge from this analysis. The first is that the risk of infiltration is not likely, but it is real in the fabric of the North of the country and it is testified by investigations, asset seizures and money laundering complaints. In the last two months 32 stakeholders have been involved and almost 15 million assets have been seized. The second message you gave, very important, is that the State is there, that the support is there and we see it on the territories, from prefectures to carabinieri, to the Finance Guard, with the work at the forefront of the agents on the territory. More needs to be done, however, and it is important to take strong action. Last week there were further interdicts on our territory (three others) and the request to suspend the execution of an interdictment was rejected. It is very important that you keep your guard up and I always appeal to the banks, also here, to help the entrepreneurs of the territory, getting the liquidity first at this stage, when there are requests. In any case, I repeat, I am very pleased with the answer. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u30	Senator Unterberger has the right to explain the 3-01674 question on gender rebalancing in the judiciary for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u31	Mr Minister, the women magistrates recall 9 February 1963 as a crucial date for their entry into the judiciary. Since then the number of women who won the competition has almost always been higher than that of men and since 2015 the staff in the judiciary is mainly made up of women. On the other hand, the figure is virtually reversed, considering the managerial and semi-directive positions, which is also confirmed in the composition of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, where the difference between genders is even wider and where women have never been more than 25% of the total. No woman has so far played, for example, the role of vice-president of the Presidency Committee and also among the elected members of the Council women are very limited, with a percentage of one in four in the current composition. The data therefore show that, when it comes to evaluating preparation and competence, women remain on the overtaking lane, while, when it comes to top positions and apical positions, these continue to be almost exclusive to men. In order to achieve substantial equality and effective equal treatment, positive action policies are needed to break down that glass ceiling which still does not allow women to achieve summit positions. In view of the fact that a draft reform law is also being drawn up at your Ministry of Justice, I would ask you, Minister, whether you agree that there is a need for appropriate measures to rebalance gender representation within the Supreme Council of the judiciary and what measures might be considered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u32	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u33	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the limited presence of the female component in the decision-making centres and in the top positions of the judicial offices is very topical at a time when we are committed to reforming the judicial system on the basis of democracy, transparency and strict protection of constitutional guarantees. I am asked whether it is the Government's intention to promote specific measures to ensure a rebalancing of gender representation within the framework of the reform involving the judiciary's self-government body. Let me thank all women who make a fundamental contribution to justice every day. To date, an objective fact is evident: given to the hand, the number of women in managerial, semi-directive or prominent positions within the judiciary is still too small. Regardless of the cause of this blatant imbalance, it is necessary and appropriate to focus on possible regulatory solutions, also because every battle of substantial equality, before political, represents a democratic need for a civil country. The aim is to find a regulatory mechanism that, without slipping in the logic of reserved quotas, allows the effective participation of all citizens, without gender difference, in fundamental roles for Italian justice. The professionalism of women in the judiciary must be enhanced, regardless of their places, precisely in order to avoid the risk of claiming a concession, rather than a real right. The so-called reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which is currently under way, which is based on the absolute valorisation of the preparation and competence of all candidates who aspire to apical positions, must clearly guarantee equal access to the roles in question, as well as to the Council itself. A case-by-case hypothesis tends to mutualise the system dictated by the law for the election of Members of the European Parliament, according to which up to 3 preferences can be expressed; in the choice of the plurality of preferences expressed, these must relate to candidates of different sex. These are ideas that I trust will find concreteness and deepening in the forthcoming developments of the reform project to be developed together with all political forces. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u34	Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u35	Minister, your reply shows that you have the necessary sensitivity to address this issue. Double preferences would, of course, be a good way of trying to achieve substantial equality, but I would not even cut the quotas a priori. In fact, it is clear that if women can practice the profession of magistrate only for a little more than fifty years it means that they are very disadvantaged. Therefore, I find nothing wrong with helping them for a certain period, even by using instruments such as quota instruments. I hope that measures already taken in other countries, which have proved to be a success, will also be taken in Italy to ensure that gender equality is at last substantial.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u36	Senator Valente has the right to explain the question 3-01675 on the resumption of judicial activity, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u37	Mr President, Minister, the epidemiological emergency (which we hope to have substantially behind us) has also blocked, among others, judicial activity, as you are well aware. We cannot talk about a slowdown; we must talk at the forefront of a real stop to all judicial activity. This forced us to intervene; which we did with the adoption of the so-called Italian decree cure, which, in addition to providing for the suspension of procedural terms and derogations for the hearings that it was essential to hold, gave the heads of the judicial offices a mandate to prepare all those organizational measures useful to contain - or at least to try to contain - the negative effects of this substantial stop. The heads of the judicial offices have arranged on all the national territory - albeit sometimes with some difficulty and delay - organizational measures useful in this direction. Even today, unfortunately, after more than a month from the date on which the new measures should have started - I remind everyone: on 12 May - after a further extension, we still have to register, in many judicial offices, delays and impossibility to carry out hearings and all the activities related to them. We hear an important cry of pain from the forensic class, not only for the legitimate interests and needs of lawyers, but by interpreting the cry of pain that comes above all from their caregivers, from citizens who ask for justice and to have it quickly, and to see the rights recognized, which otherwise could not be. We think we can't wait for September. We certainly cannot think that everything will be resolved after the month of August. We believe that action should be taken. You did it, we said it; we started to do it with the decree-law care Italy. Monitoring has been done in the first phase; we would like to see whether monitoring is taking place in the second phase as well. We record that the Department of the Judicial Organization in recent years has given important impetus to the telematic process, particularly in the civil sector, and it has also adopted security measures that allow its use also of the tool of work remotely, therefore the possibility of remote hearings. However, the emergency and above all the characteristics of the justice system, that is, the need to act almost always with the presence of the parties - I refer in particular to the criminal proceedings - impose on all of us a reflection. We ask you whether you intend to intervene, Minister, in order to try to respond to this cry of pain, and in any case to ensure, more effectively than hitherto, judicial activity in all the judicial offices of Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u38	The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u39	Mr President, I take note of the deep concerns of the interrogating senators, who ask whether judicial monitoring and the implementation of organisational measures have been initiated, which, in addition to ensuring a rapid recovery, are also homogeneous on the ground. Following the emergence of the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, the adoption of the organizational measures put in place so far has been a must to protect the health of workers and citizens, in the light of an alarming epidemiological framework. The effort made by the administration has certainly led to a radical change in the organization of office work, which has obviously had repercussions on all the categories concerned. I am well aware of the lamented lack of homogeneity of the interventions, but on the point I must emphasize that the entrusting of the organizational choices to the individual managers has been decided to calibrate the interventions on the specific needs of the individual judicial and territorial realities in the course of the emergency. At the same time, the Ministry has continued to provide guidance and support to all offices since the acute phase of the epidemiological emergency. Last week, there was also a very important moment of dialogue with both the lawyer and the judiciary. With the beginning of phase 2, the Ministry started the gradual and progressive extension of administrative judicial activities. Now, thanks to the change in the health context, the time has come for a return to normality for justice. In particular, it is imminent to issue a circular that rebalances the relationship between work in presence and work remotely of administrative staff, and in general aims to ensure, as far as possible, the regular celebration of hearings in safe conditions as from 1 July 2020. From 22 May, then, was established the national direction cabin for the management of judicial activity during stage 2 of the emergency by Covid-19, precisely to ensure monitoring of the recovery and to allow targeted and effective interventions. In addition, the large investments made under the so-called re-launching decree-law are allowing the installation of all necessary safety devices according to the instructions of the health authority, because guaranteeing a service means ensuring that it does not pose a health risk to citizens and workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u40	I have the right to speak in response to Senator Rossomando for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u41	Minister, thank you for your reply and your assurances, for which I am quite satisfied. It will allow me, however, to make a few remarks: you have rightly said that we will now return to normality after a state of necessity. Even for justice, in fact, we have moved to phase 2 which we consider very delicate, certainly as the previous one. The distinctions were obviously necessary, but it seems important to us to stress that justice is also a social dimension of the community and of our democracy, so the recovery of normality is not a problem for justice workers - whether it be judges or lawyers - but it is a problem of access to rights and the protection of rights. Precisely in the difficult situation that we are all aware of, there is a great need not to give the impression of abandonment, even if dictated by necessity, because we know that they are precisely the weakest who need protection guaranteed by the State: those who are already strong can make up for it in other ways. In conclusion, Mr President, we think it is necessary to coordinate the organizational lines also in the light of monitoring the first results and the first results relating to the difficulties that have been encountered. The desire for normality and reassurance is very important and has much to do with the administration of justice. Finally, Mr President and Minister, all of this has a lot to do with the economic question because our system needs certainty and protection in order to restart. I am referring in particular to legal certainty, timing and reassurance, not only for our companies but also for our partners and investors abroad. We are therefore reassured by the fact that justice is also a protagonist of the so-called revival measure, giving itself to the same - not so frequent - important resources. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u42	Senator Modena has the right to explain the question 3-01670 on the need for a reform of the judiciary and jurisdiction for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u43	Mr President, our question, as the Minister can imagine, stems from the facts that have again affected the togae and in general, above all, their supreme body, that is, what should be the body of self-government. It was born because, of course, we passed through a phase in which justice seemed a conflict between powers and today instead scares the citizen who wonders which judge will happen, maybe with one who was put in his place by Guy or Caius or anyway with a subject that is not reliable. So, after thirty years of denouncing the political use of justice, in a certain sense today we have reached the apex, where we are even talking about magical circles and time investigations. After 30 years, we've got proof. [[Applause]] I would be interested to hear from you, Minister, as you said even before you had a reform in the pipeline, on which points you may wish to cooperate with the opposition. There is one essential, the law because it is not possible, as happened with the so-called Severino law, to issue a legislative decree. In addition, the question of the distinction between prosecution and judge, i.e. the so-called separation of careers, and the question of the reform of the MSC must be resolved. We're not interested in having a third political chamber anymore. [[Applause]] , the famous third political chamber where there is an exasperated currentism for which we have a form of power. There would be another aspect, namely the need to regulate in a different way the detachments of the magistrates especially to the Ministry of Justice because there is a mix between the executive and the judiciary even in the out-of-the-box. These are the issues I put to your attention in this question time. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede, has three minutes to answer this question.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u44	Mr President, the credibility and prestige of the judiciary have been severely affected by recent events in the context of the so-called Palamara case, which I have not hesitated to describe as a real earthquake for the judiciary. We are at the point of no return: it is no longer possible to postpone a clear and profound intervention to protect citizens and the vast majority of the judiciary that looks with indignation at that kind of dynamics. The reform will intervene in a sensitive area involving fundamental rights and bodies of constitutional importance. I have always believed in the method of confrontation within the forces that make up the majority as well as with the oppositions and, even more so, for this reform I hope that the discussion is as broad as possible and that, despite the legitimate differences, leads to the approval of a regulatory system capable of remedying all the distortions involving the judiciary. Just in this spirit last week, Wednesday, June 3, I had a first meeting with the opposition forces, listening to the various views, considerations and proposals that were presented in a dialogue that, at least as long as we were within the Ministry, was constructive. I promise to compare myself with the professionals, namely the National Association of Judges, the National Council of Forensics and the associations representing the lawyer and again with the opposition forces. Two weeks ago I represented in the House that the reform will have to provide for a new electoral system to eliminate the degenerations of currentism; mechanisms to ensure, with a view to eliminating the so-called carrierism, that only merit is at the center of the criteria with which we proceed in the nominations and the advancement of career; a separation between politics and the judiciary with the prediction of rules that definitively close the so-called revolving doors; rigid forecasts that, more generally, clearly demarcate the line between the performance of the functions proper to the magistrate compared to all the tasks that the same could be called to carry out outside the role of the judiciary. Among other things, although there are already rigid mechanisms for the functional separation of judicial judges and judicial requirements, a reduction in the number of so-called transitions from one function to another is envisaged in the current draft reform. These are the guidelines on which I am available for comparison, in the knowledge that only through a serious debate can we find the indisputable solutions to restore the confidence of citizens in the justice and the work of the judiciary. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u45	Senator Modena has the power to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u46	Mr President, we have had many moments of confrontation with the Minister because we think in a drastically different way about so many things, starting with the brutality of justice; I remind you, for example, that this was a law that you have managed to do in four months in Parliament. The issue of the MSC is fundamental, in our opinion, and, therefore, it must not be imbued - forgive me the term, but it makes the idea - as happened last year when it had exploded and then suddenly the reform has disappeared. Otherwise, we will always have a problem: whenever a political character is accused, we will ask ourselves whether it is a real accusation or whether you are in situations like those that have occurred with Berlusconi for a long time and today with Minister Salvini. An era must be closed. That's the challenge. I understand that you have it on your shoulders, but on this we will not give up because it is time to move on. We owe it to the country and to a correct constitutional balance which has been imagined and which must be completed. ( [[Applause).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u47	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u48	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u50	STEFANO (PD). Mr President, I am speaking to urge the Government to take a different approach to a subject which I believe should be dealt with. I am referring to the fact that the INPS does not give the 600 euro bonus to seasonal workers in tourism and thermal baths. Unfortunately, the decision to reprocess rejected instances has not solved the problem. Probably, numbers in hand, only 23,000 workers will be recognized this allowance in the face of estimated 181,000 workers who actually remain exposed and will not get this measure, as exceptional as it is necessary for a sector that is on its knees and that for days manifest and protest to see known this bonus. I would therefore appeal to you, Mr President, to ask the Minister for Labour and Social Policy to respond to inspection union 3-01649, signed by me and many of my colleagues in the Democratic Party, with whom we ask the Minister whether he intends to take further steps to resolve the problem of all seasonal workers in tourism and thermal baths, because it is not as good as one in work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u51	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u53	Mr Pucciarelli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, his name was Zohra, he was eight years old and instead of living with his family, attending school and maybe playing with dolls, she was a maid. It's impossible for me even to imagine an eight-year-old girl who has to look after a luckier child in order to survive or study. But it wasn't enough. Zohra was killed and perhaps abused by her employers, those who had to tear her away from extreme poverty and perhaps give her an education. She was killed because she freed two parrots from the cage. For his murder no one has kneeled; his killing has not caused a stir: very few articles have appeared in the press. There isn't even one of her photos (the one that circulates is from another child). I am still waiting to read some UN or EU communiqués through the High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, Mr Borrell, on this fierce crime. However, despite the continuous research I have done to find something about it, I have not yet found anything. Zohra left in the indifference of the most and without making any noise. In the world, the exploitation of child labour involves some 152 million children aged four and over. If these children all lived in one country, it would be the ninth most populous state in the world: more than twice as much as Italy and the largest in Russia. Of these, about 40 million are used in mines, but this figure is to be updated in increase due to the boom of cobalt extraction. We talked about children exploited in mines, but also in fields, landfills, by sex or their organs. Often they are ghost children, since many are not registered at birth: in Pakistan there are 200 million children forced to work. Here it is frequent the use of poor girls as domestics. It is often extreme poverty that drives many parents to send their children to work with wealthy families, with the illusory promise of schooling and education; or they are simply children who drop out of school to help their families financially. Almost always absolute poverty is the main cause of child exploitation; poverty that is likely to increase significantly also because of Covid, as well as the recent environmental disasters, with the consequence that children are even more at risk. Zohra's death should make the entire international community reflect on what needs to be done to ensure that every child is guaranteed the right to be a child. In this sense, we must help those countries that are in extreme poverty, with concrete measures aimed at their economic development, as well as their independence, with projects that allow the education of every child, as well as the right to health and food. If after Zohra's death we do not start from this, Zohra will be killed again; if we do not guarantee children culture, education, food and care, we condemn them to be slaves or to end up like her. June 12 is the World Day against the Exploitation of Child Labour, established in 2002. Something has been done, but it is always insufficient. Too often the days to remember some phenomena can only wash our consciences and we cannot accept this. We learn from Zohra's sacrifice and help the exploited children get out of these cages. Little Zohra, fly free along with your parrots. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u54	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-06-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-228.ana.u55	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 16 June, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.17 p.m.
