ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 14.34 p.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 16 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u3	The next item is the President's statement on the timetable for proceedings. The Conference of Leaders, which met on Thursday 16 April, approved the current week's schedule by a majority. In today's session, the President of the Council of Ministers will make an information with direct television broadcast on the recent initiatives of the Government to deal with the emergency from Covid-19. Groups will be able to intervene for ten minutes. The discussion of the report on the deviation of the structural policy objective already planned for tomorrow by the Conference of Leaders will not take place, in relation to the failure to present the document. As already announced to the Groups, the agenda for tomorrow's sitting provides for questions to be answered immediately at 9.30 a.m. pursuant to Rule 151- bis of the Rules of Procedure, with the presence of the Ministers for the Interior, Transport and Sport. At the end of today's sitting, the Conference of Leaders is convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 16 April 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 22 April 2020: [[Tuesday 21 April h. 14.30 - Statement by the President on the schedule of proceedings - Statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the recent initiatives of the Government to deal with the emergency from COVID-19 (15 hours)]] [[Wednesday 22 April h. 9.30 a.m. - Questions in immediate response, pursuant to Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u7	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, my speech relates to the outcome of the Conference of Leaders, which, as you have rightly pointed out, ended by a majority. I would like to address both you and my colleagues, because it is the tradition of this House that the meaning of our request should take place as we thought it appropriate: we have therefore made a request - and for us I mean the compact front of the opposition: Forza Italia, Lega e Fratelli d'Italia - which used the following requirement. In the face of a Council of the European Union of particular importance, relevance and importance in terms of content, because it will decide on ways of managing the health emergency, which will have to be homogeneous and managed with uniform effectiveness throughout Europe, it was asked that the President of the Council should come to the Senate to make not a general information, which will see us as parliamentary spectators. Indeed, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are already many television viewers. Even today, unfortunately, what the President-in-Office of the Council will tell us in a few minutes' notice we have already seen in advance this morning live Facebook. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is yet another slap in the face of a Parliament that would have the right not to inform and to observers not participating, but to communications that include a vote of Parliament itself, which represents a reinforced mandate to go and negotiate for our country in Europe and bring home a result representative of all of us, of all the Italian people. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We are there, we are not afraid of confrontation and we are not afraid of the truth. We don't feel like a pot of stone in the iron pots. However, I fear that the fear of the majority and the President-in-Office of the Council was to show the cracks in a pot of stone, which unfortunately made us feel so many times from the changing rooms of the majority echoes of quarrels never endured. We are not afraid to confront each other, either between us or with the majority. We - I repeat - are not afraid of the truth. We are the first task force in this government. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] No more comitology, no more plethora of experts. If the expert solution is to stay at home, even in the Middle Ages, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this recipe was imposed: all at home. And they didn't need 400 experts to find out. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Mr President, our request is, has been and will always be as follows: the Government must not be afraid to confront Parliament, its first task force and its first source of legitimacy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We rely on our colleagues, we rely on the Italian people who watch us carefully from home and from outside, those who are in the house and those who work. We also count on all those vestals of the most beautiful Constitution in the world that have so often shouted at scandal, full powers and violation of fundamental rights. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We ask these vestals, these professors, these experts in the Constitution, to say something and say it soon, because these slaps in Parliament cannot be repeated so often and so strongly. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Once again, Mr President, I ask - and I know that unfortunately I will not be heard - the President of the Council not to be afraid of confrontation, but to have the courage of truth, to come to Parliament and face the confrontation of a vote to be stronger in Italy and in the rest of the world and to represent more fully all of us. So, in order to make a long history - alas - something very short, we ask not for information, but communications, to go and bring the voice of Italy to a gathering as important as the most important Council of the European Union since the pandemic began. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Rauti. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u10	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, as a League we support Mr Bernini's request for Forza Italia, but also for Brothers of Italy. We have signed together a letter asking for communications and not for information, because in our view, before a European Union summit, we think it is right that Parliament should give an act of direction, basically to make it clear what position the Government must take when the European Council is due to take place on 23 April, as was the case in the past: every time, before a European Council, Parliament listened to communications, then a resolution was voted, and then the President of the Council went to the European Council with a position and with a parliamentary mandate. Until the start of the emergency, that was what happened. The last vote of Parliament we remember is that of 20 February, before the European Council. Then the coronavirus emergency began and the President of the Council no longer came. There have been a number of European Councils, but the government's justification, even at the European Council on 26 March, was that these were informal Councils, because they were carried out through a videoconference, there was no decision and therefore, according to the Government, there is no need to come to Parliament to debate and vote. In the meantime, let us point out that during the entire emergency period of the coronavirus there will be no European Councils with sessions, because they will always take place on videoconferencing; what does this mean? Will we never come to Parliament to discuss anything? We would also like to address another issue: yesterday's President Conte at the Corriere della Sera said that he took time on the European Stability Mechanism (ESM) and did not exclude the veto at the European Council. Excuse me, but in an informal Council, how do you ask for a veto? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I do not think there is an expression of the informal veto. Someone then should also explain to us why this is happening. However, beyond what can be the various positions, let it be clear, I think it is in the interest of all Members to come to the Chamber and give a clear mandate to the Government, even in the face of Councils that can be considered informal. The President of the Council takes note of Parliament's position and states that he will bring to the European Council the indication received from Parliament. That's the real interest. We really ask you, by addressing everyone, to reason well on such important issues. We have also heard the Movimento 5 Stars express themselves consistently several times with respect to what they have always argued by declaring themselves contrary to the European Stability Mechanism. Let us be careful, however, because with the mechanism of informal video conferencing the risk is that when we get to Parliament to vote something we will not vote on a mandate to the government to take a position, but we will vote on a vote which is an act of a position already taken. You absolutely must take advantage of these words that I am saying, because it would be a very serious mistake. You would no longer be in a position to express yourself and you would be forced to accept the package in fact, as the European Council has already established. And then, if nothing else, just in the face of the statements made this morning by Senator Renzi, who said that the triggers will get over it, that the ESM will have to be there, that they will change their minds as they have changed it so many times, only in the face of such a statement, should it be you who are asking for a vote in Parliament today. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We ask you for pride if you still have it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups. Comments from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u13	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I would like to speak on the order of business. RAUTI (FdI). Mr President, the order of business provides for the intervention of Brothers of Italy at this time [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] because, as previous speakers have pointed out, at the Conference of Leaders, we asked together, with the same determination, for the President of the Council to come to this House to keep communications and not information. This difference perhaps escapes from the Chamber, but the substantial difference between communication and information does not escape here. The communications would bring into this House a debate, a debate, a time adapted to the importance of the subject and the possibility of a vote and an evaluation. All this is prevented by the information mechanism. I also think that the communication mechanism, with the debate and the vote, would have strengthened the role of President Conte in Europe, because it would have been a sort of mandate or not. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Are you abdicating yourself to this to keep your hands free? When dealing with national interests, you never have your hands free. Parliament is not a place of utterance, it is not a set. I refer to the fundamental principles of democracy, confrontation and parliamentary debate, which have unfortunately been all too often contradicted in recent months. I do not want to open up any more controversy, such as the use of a vote of confidence on an important act; I want to confine myself to this recent element. The choice of information means avoiding parliamentary confrontation, in fact means - excuse me, ladies and gentlemen - to propose the formula, which the President of the Council likes to use, of making us available every fifteen days, because the information is part of the logic that the President has expressed to make us available every fifteen days. Then when, among other things, it does not anticipate everything already on Facebook, as happened today and in other circumstances, so even we have already learned before arriving in the Chamber. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] And then I say that I do not have to remind the President of the role of the Chambers, I say that the institution cannot be emptied, I say that democracy not only has its own rules, but also has its own chrisms and that even the chrisms are respected. I see in this a lack of recognition of the rules of the democratic system and its crisms. Moreover, you see, the excuse for an informal council unfortunately does not stand not only in the method, but also in the merit, because we all know very well that a Eurogroup has been held, that this has reached conclusions and that these will be discussed and will be central; they concern the destiny of Italy, the economic destiny of our country. It is neither marginal nor superfluous, nor a matter of small thickness, but of great importance, vision and political choice. It was necessary here to clarify the light or heavy conditionality, whether existing or non-existent, as much as it is contained in that very important agreement reached at the Eurogroup meeting. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is no longer a question of political positioning; this is a question of the pride of the institutions and their functionality. Escape from parliamentary confrontation hurts the role of any President and hurts the country. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u16	Mr Perilli (M5S). Mr President, I too am speaking on the question of the timetable. My group has been called into question by President Romeo and I would like to make a few points. I would like to say to my colleagues that Senator Romeo's words must not be indisputable, because I give an explanation to what I heard from Senator Romeo, a very simple explanation: fear. It is the fear of having passed from a fake news, that is the fact that we had even signed the MES, to the realization that this did not happen; this has already constituted a small landslide in the structure and architecture that the League (and not only the League) is building on this story, in a quite shameful way. Well it has done - and I repeat - President Conte to mark it. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The second point is that the intervention is captious (as a lawyer I say it also in a positive sense, because it is right that the opposition does its job and sow elements of weeds with the majority so as to put it in supposed difficulty). But there is one fundamental aspect. We are talking about a method and, of course, Senator Romeo is very careful not to present to the House and to everyone the method that is given to us at the Conference of the Leaders and the type of debate on which we have already addressed motions and their timetable. He makes himself strong of a refusal not to enter into the matter, because he knows well that on these topics (I will say it also in the course of the information) we have many points of contact, but he leaves them to try to propaganda the last political and offensive bulwark (in the sense of attack) of the League that is that of the signature for the MES and its narration of the MES. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This denotes a desire to represent - but it is not a crime - the fact of how the work of the Conference of Leaders is going. It is known that it is a motion and that there has been an information to the House, so it would be quite singular that, after what has been decided in the other branch of Parliament, the Senate decides to have the communications carried out. Then the sentence of Count who said 'we could veto' is attacked, but the veto can put it on the outcome of the work that will be carried out in the informal Eurogroup; it is not said that that veto will place it on the work of the Council of Europe. However, I realize that all this equipment of objections, if contained in a reasonable contestation, before a simplistic representation of the MES you do not want the MES and you are contradicting it, can be a weapon in his favor. In the same way, dear Romeo, if we talk about coherence, look at how the work in the European Parliament went and you will realize that the opposition is very divided on this issue. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In addition, on the Coronabonds or Eurobonds, which your former Deputy Minister Garavaglia had welcomed very favorably, you have now taken your word back and said no: Eurobonds as an element of solidarity are not good. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All these things, however, I do not want to tell you now, because I wish to explain them in the course of the information. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u17	Senator Airola had asked for the floor first, but, having already spoken to Senator Perilli, it is not possible because according to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure only one Senator per Group can speak. I put to the vote the proposal to amend the timetable for the work of the Assembly to ensure that the President of the Council of Ministers makes communications, rather than information, with a view to the European Council. It's not approved. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Let's ask for a rehearsal. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I order the doors closed. There are already tablets, as has already been announced at the Conference of the Leaders, so even all the senators in the forums will be able to vote. We proceed to counter-test by electronic procedure. [[Comments.]] I didn't close the vote. I said we're going back to rehearsal. I've seen that some senators are taking the cards. Did you all vote? Did you connect? Otherwise, the Senator Secretary can take note of the vote if they cannot vote for two people. Everyone voted and, therefore, can we declare the counterproof closed? [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Colleagues, I am not proclaiming the result, but I am adding up the votes, expressed by the hemicycle and the forums. I invite you to have a moment of patience. We are experimenting with a new way of voting, in order to give everyone the chance to vote while maintaining health security distances. One moment of patience and I will be able to announce the outcome of the vote. It's not approved. The timetable for proceedings adopted by a majority of the Conference of Leaders and communicated by me to the Assembly remains therefore final. I briefly suspend the sitting pending the arrival of the President-in-Office of the Council. (The sitting was suspended at 3.30 p.m. and resumed at 3.06 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u18	The next item is the statement by the President of the Council of Ministers on the recent government initiatives to deal with the emergency from Covid-19. I remember that live television with RAI is in progress. I call the President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this information allows me to give Parliament a complete picture of the most recent internal initiatives that the Government has taken and an update on the initiatives that are planned at European level to deal with the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19. This passage is made in the clear awareness of those who speak to you and of the entire Government of the need to fully involve Parliament, in particular at a stage in which the action of the Government, because of the extraordinary character and pervasive scope of the emergency that we are facing, directly detects on the primary goods of the person, health, freedom, economic initiative, work, to silence others. We come to the initiatives taken at the internal level. On the legitimacy and reasonableness of the instruments used, as you know, there is a wide-ranging, well-structured debate which reflects a varied panorama of positions. I am not, of course, going into this debate, even though I am not indifferent to all the questions it raises. However, I would like to reiterate in this House that the pandemic has forced urgent measures, which have always been taken in accordance with the principles of maximum precaution and proportionality. In every more delicate passage I have always had the utmost care to preserve the delicate and complex balance between the multiple values involved (all of constitutional rank) and to ensure that the different constitutional bodies, each expression of indispensable guarantees, are involved as far as possible and, above all, to protect the supreme principle of democracy that informs the entire legal system of itself. From the point of view of the health response to the emergency, the Government has in recent weeks developed a strategy in particular and we inform you about it. We can summarize it in five points. The first is to maintain and enforce at all levels measures for social distancing, to promote widespread use of personal protective equipment until specific therapy and vaccine are available. The second point is to strengthen the health networks of the territory as the main weapon to fight the virus. In this regard, the Government is working to strengthen all prevention services and is calling for a renewed integration between health and social policies, with particular attention to nursing homes and health care residences, where unfortunately there has been an uncontrolled explosion of infection, especially in some areas of the country. The third point is to intensify the presence of Covid hospital throughout the territory as a fundamental tool of the hospital management of patients. The presence of facilities dedicated exclusively to Covid-19 significantly reduces the risk of infection for healthcare professionals, but also for patients who are hospitalized for other diseases. The fourth point is the correct use of the tests, both molecular ones - banally: the buffer - that today are the only sure instrument of identification of the virus, both serological ones, to understand us for example the analysis of the blood, useful instrument of investigation and epidemiological knowledge, also in order to prepare a national plan that can effectively photograph the epidemiological state of our country. In this regard, on 17 April, Commissioner Arcuri, at the request of the Ministry of Health, called for a competition in a simplified procedure of maximum urgency for the supply of reagent and consumable kits for the carrying out of 150,000 tests aimed at a sample survey on the spread of infection among the Italian population, with possible subsequent extension for the carrying out of further 150,000 tests. The public tender will be concluded in a very short time, by April 29 there will be reasonably the signing of the contract, at the result of a transparent and rigorous procedure. The fifth point is the strengthening of the strategy of mapping suspicious contacts (the expression is now commonly used: contact tracing) and teleassistance, with the use of new technologies. Immediacy in the identification of close contacts of positive cases and their consequent isolation are crucial to prevent infected individuals from causing new outbreaks. For this reason, an appropriate information application directly available on smartphones is an essential tool to speed up the process. Attention, however: this application - I say this clearly - will be offered on a voluntary basis and not on a compulsory basis. We will ensure that those who do not want to download it will not be restricted by movements or other prejudices. A team composed of the Ministry of Innovation, the Ministry of Health and cyber safety experts is supporting Commissioner Arcuri in order to implement the application in the best way, with the highest guarantees. I have indicated that the majority, but also minority, group leaders should be constantly informed about this application process. I myself reserve the right, at a later stage, to report regularly to the Chambers on the details of this application, in the knowledge that Parliament's involvement must be full and strict, as fundamental constitutional rights are involved, such as the dignity of the person, the right to privacy, personal identity, as well as the protection of public health and not least the need to protect an information asset of primary importance and importance, in the logic of national strategic interests. As regards the distribution of personal health protection devices, I inform you that through the ADA system - Aid distribution analysis, updated in real time, on the various official websites of the Government are available punctual information on devices and equipment in distribution, which every day Commissioner Arcuri sends to the Regions and autonomous Provinces to deal with the emergency. I give you only some summary data, in order to understand the effort made in a period in which there is a madness - I emphasize: wild - competition of most countries to grab these materials: on April 19 are distributed to the Regions by civil protection about 3,900 fans for the therapies, 105,000 endotracheal tubes and 117 million masks of various types. With regard, however, to the more general contenitive measures adopted by the Government since the beginning of the emergency and on which I have reported extensively in the previous information, which dates back to 25 March last, I recall that in these last weeks two further decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers have been adopted, both aimed essentially to extend the restrictive regime already in force. By the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 1 April, the effectiveness of the provisions of the decrees of the President of the Council of 8, 9, 11 and 22 March was extended until 13 April 2020, as well as the effectiveness of the provisions of various ministerial orders. It is, as you know, the measures concerning social distance and the prohibition of movement, unless proven needs, the closure of schools and other places of aggregation, the suspension of productive, industrial and commercial activities, with the exception of those that provide essential public utilities and public services. Subsequently, on 10 April, those same measures, again by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, were extended - so we come to the current regime of discipline - until 3 May. The decision to extend further what is now commonly referred to as lockdown has been taken in the light of epidemiological data from the last few weeks, with particular regard to the development of contagions. These data confirmed the effectiveness of the containment measures taken, but at the same time suggested the need to continue rigorously along the path undertaken, so that the results achieved are not lost. There is now a very complex phase ahead of us: we need to loosen the current regime of restrictions on production and commercial activities; we need to do everything we can, of course, to preserve the integrity and efficiency of our productive fabric. The engines of the country must restart, but this restart must take place on the basis of a well-structured, articulated plan that involves a revision of the organizational models of work, of the modalities of public transport but also private and of all the connected activities. There will also be some changes to social distancing measures. I do not escape, we do not escape, at all, the difficulty for citizens to continue to observe strongly limiting rules of their freedom of movement, which have involved a profound change in our habits of life. The return to normality, albeit with the necessary graduality, is an understandable aspiration of all. All these needs are represented by the same citizens, but I am also urged by many of you Members who, at the time when you spoke to me about the requests from the territories and the different worlds, wrote to me asking for quick solutions, sustainable solutions and I thank you for that. That is also why I believe it is right to inform Parliament about the strategy that the Government is developing these days, in order to proceed with a progressive but orderly easing of measures. For this purpose, with the specific decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, again on 10 April, I set up a committee of economic and social experts with the task of drawing up useful proposals to guide the government in the decisions it will have to take in this regard. This committee of experts is acting in consultation with the Scientific Technical Committee to ensure that the strategies identified for economic restart are based on indispensable security conditions - as well as Dr. Borrelli, Head of Civil Protection, and the Special Commissioner, Dr. Arcuri - are legally members of this committee of experts in order to obtain full coordination between the bodies that assist us in this very hard challenge. With the help of these experts we are developing a programme of progressive openings that is homogeneous on a national basis and that allows us to reopen most of the productive activities and also commercial ones, but keeping under control the curve of the contagion. This is very important: we must keep the contagion curve under control in order to intervene - if necessary even later - where this rises again beyond a certain threshold. A threshold that we do not think should be formulated in merely abstract terms, but that we want to be commensurate with the specific receptivity of the hospital structures of the reference area. Of course, in order to be able to resume the economic activities safely, compliance with the protocols will have to be guaranteed, starting with the one signed on 14 March last with the unions and the productive categories and then updated. Once this programme is completed, we will discuss it with all stakeholders (territorial bodies, employers' organisations, trade unions) in order to acquire their assessments and share it with all stakeholders. It is - I repeat - one of the most sensitive and complex passages. We are aware, in fact, that an imprudence committed at this stage, an adventurousness at this stage, dictated if anything by the legitimate expectation of restarting, can - at a time when it is not yet exhausted, but only contained the charge of contagion - compromise all the sacrifices that, with responsibility and discipline, the citizens have had to face so far. We come to support the economy. Last April the Decree-Law No 23 of 2020 was approved, currently under consideration by the Chamber of Deputies for its conversion into law, with which new measures in support of companies, craftsmen, self-employed and professionals became operational. The measure continues and widens the range of interventions arranged in the decree-law so-called care Italy and is focused on three main directives: measures to support the liquidity of the enterprises, aimed at unblocking further guaranteed flows of financing for the benefit of the productive system; measures to protect the national strategic assets; fiscal measures aimed at extending the existing deadlines and to stimulate the expenses incurred by the enterprises to reopen safely. Supporting the facilitated provision of liquidity to companies, through public guarantees, helps to prevent disruption of credit and payment systems, which are likely to undermine the continuity of economic activities. Moreover, in order to avoid the risk of a permanent loss of production capacity and potential growth of our country, it is essential to increase the protection of our industrial fabric. For this reason, in the decree-law you also found new measures to protect Italian strategic assets. We have also extended the application of golden power to new sectors that were not covered (we also consider them of strategic importance) as well as to intra-European operations, which until now were excluded. This emergency is affecting the most fragile sections of the population by risking creating new poverty; therefore, we cannot ignore this phenomenon which risks tearing up an already proven social fabric. We have taken some steps to meet the urgent needs of the citizens who are in greater difficulty: you will remember the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 28 March, with which the Government has anticipated to the municipalities a quota of 66% of the disbursements provided by the municipal solidarity fund of 4.3 billion euros, which can also be used to further guarantee the full functionality of the public services provided. Moreover, in a Civil Protection order of 29 March 2020, 400 million euros were advanced to the Italian municipalities in order to allow them to distribute food aid to the most needy citizens in the form of vouchers or, alternatively, basic food delivered directly. However, the Government is aware that these interventions are not enough and support is needed for families and businesses that are prolonged over time, even more incisive. The recession induced by the necessary virus containment measures will have a profound and persistent impact on the entire global economy and the recent forecasts of the International Monetary Fund estimate a fall in gross domestic product of 9.1 percent for 2020, followed by a growth of 4.8 percent in 2021. Faced with this framework, we need to further strengthen our economic policy response. For this reason, in addition to the 25 billion euros already allocated with the so-called decree-law cure Italy, the Government will send to Parliament a very short report containing a request for a deviation from the budget objectives planned for 2020 that is much higher than the one allocated in March. A really substantial figure, not less than EUR 50 billion, which will be added to the 25 billion already allocated, for a total intervention of not less than EUR 75 billion. This further use of the deficit will be used to finance various measures, among others, aimed at strengthening health workers, civil protection and security forces, extending and strengthening social shock absorbers, in particular Cassa Integrazione and compensation for self-employed persons and VAT consignments, support for those who are not covered by the integration fund, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, additional funds for municipalities, provinces, metropolitan cities and regions, and support for sectors particularly affected by virus containment measures. I am aware that the process of conversion into law of the decrees-laws adopted so far has left partially dissatisfied the legitimate expectations of the political forces to be able to contribute with their own proposals to the definition of the framework of the interventions. I would like to thank Parliament's groups most sincerely for their awareness of the particularly critical context in which, because of the emergency, we are forced to operate. I assure you that in the construction of the large body of measures that will find place of the next decree-law, to which I mentioned, will be assured the utmost attention to the demands and proposals of the parliamentarians, also in accordance with the commitments made by the Government and formalized in specific agendas accepted in the parliamentary examination of the decree-law care Italy. I particularly thank the majority that supports the Government, the Group Presidents in the first place, but also, if you will allow me, every single Member for their commitment, participation, constructive contribution, even when critical, for the support you are never lacking. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT,UV).]] At such a difficult time for the life of the nation, I would like to confirm that I and the entire Government are fully prepared for dialogue with the opposition forces. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT,UV). Comments from FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Call the president back.]] VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'Az GROUP. You're gonna get your nose out! Pinocchio! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, a little respect. [[Live comments from L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] Let the President-in-Office continue. VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'Az GROUP. Shame! Conte, President of the Council of Ministers. The contribution of a responsible and aware opposition to the gravity of the hour will always be open and considered. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] However, the challenge that awaits us cannot be effectively addressed by using only national policies, since the virus knows no boundaries and is pervasively affecting the social economic tissue of many countries. In order for all countries to overcome the health emergency and rebuild their societies and economies, it is necessary for the nations to be able to put in place a coordinated and supportive response. I have reiterated this in all the appropriate institutional fora at G7, G20 and European Council level: the European Union and the Eurozone cannot afford to repeat the mistakes made during the 2008 financial crisis. Then a common shock could not be dealt with in a coordinated, united and supportive manner. It was even decided a hasty and unjustified fiscal consolidation that, widening the differences between countries, produced a second asymmetric shock in 2010-2011, leading - as we know and remember - to the sovereign debt crisis and condemning Europe to a longer recession and a slower and weaker recovery compared to the other major economic areas of the world. It is a risk that we cannot afford to take now, because failure to produce an adequate and courageous response would inevitably cause serious damage to the European project itself. On 9 April, the Eurogroup prepared a report on the Union's economic response to the health and economic emergency, which, in addition to taking account of the progress made, prepares a package of instruments available to the Member States, consisting of four main elements. Firstly, a European Guarantee Fund is set up at the European Investment Bank (EIB), with EUR 25 billion, which should enable up to EUR 200 billion of financing for investments within the Union. The second element of the package is the so-called Sure Plan, a financial assistance instrument that will be able to provide up to EUR 100 billion in credit lines dedicated to income support measures for temporarily unemployed workers. These two elements, although still insufficient, are already characterized by financing with common guarantees and therefore at particularly low interest rates for expenditure and investment to be carried out in the Member States. On the third element of the package, i.e. the activation of a credit line dedicated to health costs and provided by the European Stability Mechanism, the now infamous ESM, has been fueled in recent weeks a debate that risks dividing Italy into opposite typhoseries. Europe must not again apologize to any country, as has happened in the past, when it imposed particularly strict programmes on Greece. Hence my position of absolute caution: in the face of the epochal challenge that we must face, one cannot think that the answer can be entrusted to interventions which are however modest in financial terms and moreover based on an intergovernmental agreement such as the ESM, designed to manage very different crises concerning individual countries, due to imbalances of an economic nature. This is why it was conceived by virtue of decisions taken in the past. As it has been conceived, it is an instrument which has so far expressed lines of financing characterized by strong macroeconomic conditionality and which has also allowed the imposition of tax measures on the entity financed more and more stringent: all things that I consider unacceptable given the nature of this crisis. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]] Together with eight other member countries, Italy has launched an ambitious challenge to Europe, inviting it to introduce new tools to address and overcome this crisis as soon as possible. Some of the countries that have shared this approach - I quote, explicitly, Spain - have declared that they are immediately interested in the ESM, provided they do not have the strict conditionality applied in other circumstances, but only the condition that the use of funding serves to meet the health, direct or indirect costs that they are. Rejecting the new credit line would also be wrong to the countries, which are also side by side in this battle, which they intend to take advantage of. However, I remain convinced that Italy needs something else. At the last meeting of the Eurogroup, a decisive step forward was taken in this new direction. In paragraph 16 on the use of the ESM, as you know, a new credit line called pandemic crises support has been proposed, adapted to the asymmetric nature of the shock related to the Covid-19, subject to the sole condition of the use of funding for health and prevention costs, direct and indirect. In order to understand whether this will actually be the case, however, we will have to wait for the various documents relating to the terms of financing that will be prepared to provide this new credit line. On this side, I expect further, clear, positions also taken at the European Council and, in any case, we are willing to work with the countries directly interested in this new credit line so that, even in the regulatory framework, there are no conditionality whatsoever, macro-economic or even more specific. Those who today express doubts and doubts about this new credit line, in my personal opinion, contribute to a democratic, constructive debate and I am the first to say that the details of the agreement will have to be carefully assessed; only then can we finally assess whether this new credit line lays down conditions, what conditions it lays down; only then can we discuss whether or not the relevant regulation can be in accordance with the national interest, whether or not it can be convenient and appropriate in relation to national interests. As I have already said in other forums, I believe that this debate in a civil and democratic country must take place in a public, transparent way, before Parliament, to which it will be the last word. However, the truth is that the negotiation with which we are engaged in Europe is particularly complex because the common response cannot be based solely on these measures and must be much more effective and consistent. We are well convinced of the strength of our reasons. At first we were alone; in recent weeks I have proposed a letter, a real programmatic manifesto, which has been signed by eight other countries, who are now with us asking for new tools and suitable for the exceptional situation that we are experiencing. The fourth element of the package is a key part of our European strategy: a European recovery fund that can finance joint projects of European interest, to launch a reconstruction plan based on investment, innovation, environmental sustainability and the protection of health and the environment. The Eurogroup report of April 9 recalls the need to build this instrument, which Italy intends to implement as quickly as possible, structuring it as a vehicle able to finance itself with common debt on the financial markets. This will be the subject of the videoconference meeting of the members of the European Council scheduled for next Thursday 23 April. Italy, together with the other countries that share this same strategy, supports the need for a coordinated and ambitious response to the shock from Covid-19, with the consequence that this new financing instrument will have to comply with the European treaties, because we do not have time to make changes that would involve a long and complex procedure. Managed at European level, offered to all the countries concerned, without being able to assume a bilateral character, must be particularly substantial as regards the financial dimension, much greater than the instruments currently being discussed, must be aimed at addressing all the negative, economic and social consequences produced by the Covid-19 and must be immediately available. And, even if it falls under the new multiannual financial framework, it will have to be made available to all the countries concerned immediately (technically it is possible to do so), through a guarantee mechanism that anticipates its application (the so-called bridge). Finally, it will not have to have the conditionality - I also think in terms of co-financing and how we spend it - that characterises the European Union's ordinary structural financing plans. At the moment we have an initiative by the President of the European Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, which, although specifically anticipated by her, could have these characteristics and move in this direction. On the table there is also a French proposal - as has been mentioned in the newspapers - that would tie the recovery fund to an ad hoc built vehicle capable of issuing common debt instruments and providing funds to member countries. We support this French proposal, having asked it to be supplemented by its original wording, in order to respond more punctually and widely to the requirements which I have indicated to you and which we consider essential. Finally - perhaps you have heard of this - a Spanish proposal has been put forward, which we could also support (but with some suggestion of variation), for compliance with the characteristics and purposes I have indicated above. To those countries which share the same line of action, we have also reserved the possibility of putting forward a proposal from us, always in this direction, which we consider to be fully in line with, for example, Article 122 of the Treaty. But we - be careful - are interested in bringing home a result, not interested in claiming a primacy at this time. At the moment we believe it is appropriate to share as much as possible the proposals on the table, without risking splitting up with the consequence of slowing down - we cannot afford this - the European decision-making process. We must act soon, because the delay would compromise the result; this is a risk that Europe (not only Italy) cannot take. We must hurry without delay to strengthen our common home, we must repair it quickly and hope, among other things, to compete effectively with other global economies. The latter is of no minor importance. The maintenance of a balanced and sustainable internal market is clearly a corollary to the European Union's external action, namely the level playing field, that level playing field, which would allow it to keep up with the big global players. The consultations - and I shall conclude - which I have had in recent days at both G7 and G20 levels have immediately emerged - which I never stop reporting to my counterparts - the magnitude of the tax space put in place - think - by the United States, China and Japan itself. In the face of orders of magnitude of several trillions of dollars, the overall European response has not yet developed at an appropriate level, and that is why I cannot accept a downward compromise. Here we are not faced with a zero-sum negotiation; there will be no winners and some losers. I am intimately convinced, talking about Europe, that we will either win or lose everyone. The next European meeting at the level of leaders of the 27 Member States of the European Union will not be the decisive one to this end, but I will do everything to ensure that the next European Council already expresses a clear political direction, in the only direction I have given you, which is the only reasonable one. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI, Aut (SVP-PATT,UV) and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u20	I declare open the discussion on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers. Senator Ginetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u21	Mr President, members of the Government, on Thursday you, Mr Conte, will be taking part in a European Council which, as you have already pointed out, although not decisive, could still be a milestone for the future of Europe. Mr President, this crisis risks returning to us a system of international relations, a world order of geopolitics and borders far different from those we have known. For this reason, in recent weeks the eyes have remained focused on Europe, which is called to prove its presence. The apologies before the Lagarde and then the President von der Leyen addressed to our country have recovered the value of solidarity, unity and the sense of these values, as requested also by President Mattarella himself; unity that could risk to dissolve in the face of the re-emergence of old national egoisms. We believe that Europe has shown itself to be there. I think it can be said that the European Commission has adopted important economic proposals in a timely manner: the 37 billions of cohesion policy, a new system of aid for small and medium-sized enterprises, the suspension of the constraints of the Stability Pact, the possibility of reprogramming the remaining resources of the Structural Funds at both regional and national level without new rules. Europe, therefore, there is and no doubt the real support has come and will come from the European Central Bank that has allowed us not to fail as a country system, with a program of 750 billion euros in public and private securities, which are already added to the line of interventions in existence of 180 billion. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] Therefore, Mr President, in this context it seems completely surreal to us this political debate which has sought to counter the various possible financial instruments. In fact, they are not alternatives to each other, as you said, they are instruments that can affect different areas and be activated at different times. Therefore, we must take them all into consideration, otherwise the debate simply seems to want to put back on stage the classic opposition between Europeans and those who once again seize the opportunity to attack the project of European unity. The ESM without conditionality, for support to the health emergency, with immediate credit lines at competitive prices and with long-term deadlines, can, from our point of view, constitute an indispensable source of financing. An opposition to the ESM, however, seems entirely ideological to us and would paradoxically unite a part of the opposition, which has always been anti-European and sovereign, with a part of the majority of government. We believe, instead, that 37 billion euros at zero rate and without conditions are unique and unrepeatable opportunity to renew the National Health System, modernize it, make it more efficient, as you told us, President Conte, to strengthen that territorial and health network that goes alongside the hospital network system, which our country needs so much. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] The recent Ecofin Council confirmed the need for the Sure Fund to be 100 billion, as you mentioned, but also for the pan-European fund managed by the EIB to be 200 billion. The most important step, however, as you mentioned, is that achieved in the European Parliament with the hypothesis of recovery funds for the issue of common securities from the European budget under the same conditions for all Member States. This is the real fundamental political step to which the Renaissance Group - Italia Viva in the European Parliament has worked so hard. President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, for Eurobonds, I do not think there are any conditions at the moment. We must wait for progress in the European integration project; for example, when the Member States finally decide to give up the fiscal sovereignty necessary to have a real European budget with their own revenues, which we must certainly strive for and for which we must work in the political sphere. In conclusion, the ESM needs health, the Sure Fund our workers, the recovery fund financed from the European budget needs the European political project. It is not enough for us to think of Europe merely as a market project. I shall conclude, therefore, by saying that the conference on the future of Europe can also be an opportunity to go in this direction, that is, towards a Europe that helps Italy, but also towards an Italy that does not set vetoes, but shows that it believes in Europe. This government, in fact, in discontinuity with the previous one, was born to be a Europeanist. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u22	Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u23	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well why this debate will end without a vote. Not so much, and not only, for the senseless and frankly incredible positions of some opposition parties, but not to expose, even more, the fragility and confusion that reigns among the parties of its majority. Nevertheless, you will be at the negotiating table on Thursday in a position of extreme weakness. Its counterparts - voting or not voting - unfortunately know the divisions of its majority and receive daily notes from the ambassadors of the European Union stationed in Rome. Divisions emerged dramatically, moreover, in the vote in the European Parliament. Plus, President Conte, I'm sorry, but you put yours in there, too. For me a TG1 will remain unforgettable in which she said: we will do it ourselves. If Europe doesn't fit in, we'll do it ourselves. We'll do it ourselves, no; we'll do it ourselves, we can't. Unless some prefer to choose Beijing and the consequences of the case. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] Mr President, leave this ideological war to others, which I find senseless and self-harmful, against the ESM. Even stones, in fact, today know that this 37 billion loan will come without any other condition than not spending well and counting resources. You mentioned the text of paragraph 16 and we can quote it again so that people understand if they succeed. Instead, shops favorably on rates and especially on the timing of the restructuring and, perhaps, on the type of eligible expenditure. The truth is that between the European Investment Bank (EIB), ESM, ECB, Support to mitigate unemployment risks in an emergency (Sure) and so on are now available immediately for recovery 1.700 billion. That's the truth. Please, I do not want to hear any more and you are not conniving with such an attitude: Europe leaves us alone. Stop it, it's a lie! That's not true! [[Applause from the Mixed Group - PEcEB]] In four weeks, the European Union has set in motion all the instruments it could and, if possible, will focus instead on negotiating the recovery fund. As a federalist, I would be happy if the European Parliament's proposal, which calls for them to be in the European Commission's budget, were accepted, but I believe that a work of truth is needed towards our citizens: it is not true that Europe has left us alone; it is not true that it will leave us alone; it is not true that the ESM is a trap. Have the courage at least to say these things. [[Applause from the Mixed-PEcEB and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u24	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u25	Mr President, the European Council of 23 April will certainly represent a fundamental step in the history of Europe: it can become an opportunity to relaunch the ideals that have given rise to this great community of peoples and nations; it can represent its own end. Without solidarity and sharing there is no community; these are fundamental values that must never be the basis of the decisions and behaviour of European leaders, as in this moment of serious emergency. Compromise cannot be proposed without concrete answers, facade mediations or decisions that do not resolve. These ambiguities can be tolerated in periods of peace, but not in times of war. The enemy is ruthless and invisible; political decisions must be swift and effective. The European Community is facing an unprecedented health emergency and economic crisis; it can only do so by abandoning the old systems of the past, which are too rigid and ineffective for the moment we are living. Never before are expansive policies needed to support the real economy. We need liquidity for high health costs, but also to help families, jobs, businesses and the European production system. Unfortunately, the first responses of the European Union were totally inadequate. We have witnessed the initial harmful and wrong statements by the President of the ECB, Christine Lagarde. We have witnessed the blocking of health equipment at the borders between European countries. We have seen a late solidarity made only of words, feelings and concrete behaviors consequent. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] We have seen, in the end, the reaction of a European Union that has never, as in the last month, manifested itself, not as the dream of the founding fathers, but as a sad illusion. However, mistakes have not only been made by European leaders, but also by our Government. You were already informed from early January of the severity of the possible epidemic, but you remained firm and inert in anticipation of the events. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Today may not be the time to make controversy, but we invite those who govern us not to hide their difficulties by shifting the spotlight of the condemnation on local administrators or, worse, on the health personnel who have found themselves and are on the front line to face an unprecedented emergency. It is too convenient and - allow me - too petty for those who have the responsibility to lead Italy. How then can we be authoritative in Europe if the political forces that support the Government are divided on the strategic choices to be promoted and supported? On 23 April, what position will our President-in-Office take? That of the Democratic Party, that of Italy Viva or that of the Movimento 5 Stars? We all know that they are divergent and irreconcilable positions. The result will be an ambiguous and irrelevant role for Italy and this luxury Italian citizens cannot afford it, not now. Our economy, our families, our companies, our workers need liquidity and cannot be content with illusory measures such as those of the so-called Italian care, loans difficult to obtain at unsustainable rates, useful only to pay new taxes. The clock is ticking, you can't wait anymore. You are still, immobile, waiting, for fear, for lack of ideas, for lack of courage. Your confusional state is a luxury that we cannot afford. The answers are needed today, or companies that are closed today for necessity will not reopen tomorrow due to lack of liquidity. We need huge investments from Europe, from our government, but now, now, or it will be too late. Italy is a country with a thousand resources, but at this moment it is forced to remain at the window, in all senses: empty roads, closed companies, firm economy. It is a country that is respecting government directives, but needs strong, shared and courageous decisions. You cannot wait for the solution of the emergency by staying at the window or at the end from the windows of your palaces you will see only rubble, the rubble of one of the best economies in the world, built with the work and sacrifices of entire generations of Italians. You cannot continue to be useless spectators of this catastrophe. Forza Italia wants first of all that the funds necessary for the recovery come to an appropriate and rapid extent; secondly, that the conditions be for no reason detrimental to the dignity of the Italian people: be up to your task and, if you have not been so far, begin to be so since April 23, making the sense of community of Europe prevail. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] dreamed of by the founding Fathers - I come from the land of Alcide De Gasperi - and not confusion, selfishness, craftiness and ambiguity. Today, as never before, Italians would not forgive you. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u26	Senator Unterberger is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u27	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, one merit that must surely be acknowledged is that we have managed to earn the esteem of European partners, which has often resulted in positive results for Italy. From this point of view, it is also important to do his sympathy, with the interviews he gave mainly to the German-speaking press. As everyone knows, we South Tyrolean cultures are linked to both Italian and German cultures, and we can reassure you that most Germans have great affection and admiration for Italy. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]] This is to say that it is not true that from all the public opinions of the Nordic countries there is hostility to a policy of solidarity, indeed at least in Germany there is a very heated debate on the sharing of resources for restarting, on the fact that Italy must no longer be left alone. In particular, journalists, intellectuals and progressive forces are loudly asking the Government for a strong signal with the introduction of the Coronabonds. Chancellor Merkel has repeatedly pointed out that she is not opposed to risk-sharing tools. His scepticism is linked to the fact that the instruments must be within the framework of the Treaties, also for reasons of speed. The caution about coronabonds is dictated, if anything, by the fact that in Germany the sovereign forces manage to demonize this instrument exactly as in Italy the ESM is demonized. Assurd were the reactions of the Italian sovereignists to the editorial of the right-wing newspaper "Die Welt" when it is clear that where someone says "first" the Italians, on another side there is someone who says "first" the Germans. And then, full of the absurdity, it is precisely the reference parties of the Italian right. [[Applause from the PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV)]] Therefore, all governments are forced to find a balance point, protecting themselves from the fake news of populists. An ESM without conditionality, with the possibility of obtaining important resources for direct and indirect health expenditure, is a completely different instrument from what we discussed a few months ago. And above all, it would be one of the instruments that the European Union makes available and which Italy cannot give up. I am confident that, through common sense, a compromise can be found. Everyone realizes that the countries of the South are the most affected by the crisis and that, if some countries do not succeed, as in one dominoes all the others will fall. Solidarity is the principle on which the European Union is founded; nationalism contradicts this principle. Timmermans said it well today in the interview with... the Republic... all leaders will be judged by history for how they will act in this crisis. President Conte, your Government has been confronted with an affair that in its consequences has been compared even to the Second World War; Italy was the first country in Europe to have to deal with this invisible enemy and I must say that, unlike many, who want to make believe that the Government is not up to it, this Government has worked well. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S and PD.]] The measures were right and necessary, so much so that they were then copied by so many European countries. Now, however, Mr President, the time has come for phase 2: citizens have endured restrictions with great discipline, but now they deserve clear answers. Italy can now take advantage of the road and the experiences that have followed other countries, which have already proceeded to the first reopenings. The government must have the courage to decide, without the citizens feeling destabilized by the many hypotheses that are read every day in the newspapers. I hope that the decision will also take account of the situation of working women, who are unable to do their job with the failure to reopen schools and kindergartens. Every now and then we have the impression that it is taken for granted that all the work of care will have to be paid to women, a perspective that, from the point of view of gender equality, brings us back to the 1950s. In any case, we believe that the way to follow is to evaluate from territory to territory: the curves of the contagion are many different in the Regions and in the Autonomous Provinces and we must give the possibility to local governments to choose, within the guidelines of the State, differentiated solutions. Unfortunately, we cannot afford to wait for the situation to stabilize throughout the national territory; this is not bearable for the economy and for the population. Especially in South Tyrol, where citizens daily compare with Austria, Germany and Switzerland, there is a lot of pressure on local government. We do not understand why they cannot go back to producing the companies that are able to maintain the measures of social distancing, because they do not open the yards in order to put in place roads, bridges and schools, because they do not have tools for the harvest season, compared to which, as we are discovering, agriculture lacks labour. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV)]] The orgies of discussions, as Chancellor Merkel calls them, we keep them for later, to understand what we need to change from our social model after the crisis, how we want to live and what we want to learn from all this. We must focus on the sustainable economy, on health and all the care professions that are carried out especially by women, with at last adequate wages; have another approach in the exploitation of animals on farms, if not for ethical reasons, at least to defend ourselves from new possible viral transmissions; strengthen the local economies for the basic necessities, because it is not socially and environmentally sustainable that come from thousands of kilometers away. These are the great questions on which a great deal of thought needs to be given in order to ensure that a better society can emerge from this crisis. It is with these wishes that we wish you well, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), PD and M5S]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u28	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, many people today expected from you - I among them - a speech of truth. In this planetary caporetto there was no need for a technical relationship. We expected a tale of truth for exactly the two reasons you recalled. We are facing an unprecedented crisis for two reasons. The first is that the world lives a lasting emergency condition, which will probably be tacit only when the vaccine will be public property. The second is that it has never happened before in the history of humanity that all the economic, commercial, tourist, entrepreneurial and industrial sectors were decidedly compromised. There's another reason you didn't remember. I'll do it. From deep crises, profound and radical changes are always generated. Such radical changes that are generally prepared during transition periods, and what your Government is preparing to support in two days' time is a part of the heart of the transition. Therefore, it is a decisive political moment; it will not be the only one, it will not be historical, but it is the one in which you start to put a stone to understand what will be the management of phase 2 in Italy and how Europe will behave in the planetary scenario that is being prepared. The point is how Italy looks at this occasion. We cannot hide behind Europe. I personally criticized and criticized the European Union for the lack of vision and strategy on the future geopolitical structure that is being prepared, but with regard to the aid put in place - it has already been said, starting with my colleague Ginetti - no criticism. If the ECB hadn't been there, we'd be looking at an abyss opening up in front of us today. I ask you, then, Mr President, why should we have an ambiguous position on those 37 billions without conditions? You said I was a modest contribution. Modesto? These are exactly half of the two maneuvers care Italy and decree-law that will come at the end of the month that you told Parliament to amount to about 75 billion. Well, 75 divided by 2 is 37.5, exactly the amount that the ESM makes without conditions available to this country. The question is, if anything, whether there is a political reason - and of course there is - that the Government is unable to settle, because paradoxically on 23 April we will be discussing, in the Community fora, an important, if not decisive, European Council, with a clearly divided majority, but above all with a potential majority that is made up of the most radical wing of the opposition and a part of the majority that supports the Conte Government, which you, of course, as Count, presides. This is the knot that I imagined today had to be faced and loosed, because otherwise, we are being chased by an opposition that has made populism more arrogant and - I would say - more begging, because, with doing extraordinary antipatriotic, we continue to scratch the belly of the Italians, to invoke the scapegoat by identifying formulas from abracadabra to solve problems a little more complex. DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Shame on you! Let us not be offended; he has given us beggars. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. You have plenty of time to replicate. NENCINI (IV-PSI). I do not take lessons from you: between Sigonella and Leoncavallo there is only one thing in common and it is the double L. No other point is in common. [[Senator De Bertoldi's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u30	Senator Nencini, talk to me, with the presidency, then everyone will express their opinions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u31	NENCINI (IV-PSI). The last question, Mr President. [[Comments from L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u32	I have already said that everyone will have time to expose everything he thinks, of course he is. Talk to me, Senator Nencini, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u33	NENCINI (IV-PSI). If I am offended on the right side of the hemicycle, I turn to the right side of the hemicycle, but of course I speak to you, Mr President. In conclusion, President Conte in the first part of his report also mentioned an app, of which I do not mention the name, which could be used to trace the Italians. The fact that it is voluntary is not a condition imposed by the Italian Government, but by Europe, which has pointed out that the term "volunteer" is elusive when it comes to high technology, because even the apps that are used voluntarily are intrusive, invasive and traceable, from the point of view of mapping, for each of you. I ask you in conclusion, President Conte: if I had come to you to take an examination, when he was a prestigious professor of the Florentine university, and had I told you that you could violate Articles 2, 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the Italian Constitution, as you would have treated me, as a student? [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u34	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciriani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure I am not overreacting if I say that the decisions that the next European Council will take could determine the future of the Continent for the next ten, perhaps twenty years. We wanted and had not only to talk about this in the Senate today, but also to vote on resolutions that would give a clear, precise and limited mandate to the government on what it had to do, did not have to, nor could it do. But this has been prevented, of course, by the majority and the responsibility - I am sorry to say, Mr President - bears exactly your name, because the truth is that you are afraid of Parliament. I listened in his illustration to the formal tributes he addressed to Parliament, to the politicians and also to the opposition groups, but these formal thanks, if they are without substance, give the bad impression of a mockery, of a mockery and it would be better to avoid them, from my point of view. You are afraid of Parliament, because it could highlight the divisions and weaknesses of this majority, which we know why it was born and what it was based on (the fear of elections). You were afraid that the 5 Stars, divided within them, would not accept - as they must - the recourse to the ESM, adding this to the many promises they have betrayed in these years. Unfortunately for you, Mr President, and for the majority, therefore, Parliament is not yet a direct Facebook, in which it intervenes, it says everything it thinks and accuses also the members of the majority on the basis and false and false evidence, without the right to reply. The problem, Mr President, is that, in addition to the indignation at the seriousness of having taken Parliament away from its duties, namely to debate and vote, we also add the feeling of disappointment, because since the beginning of this pandemic we have sincerely hoped to create a national unity and a sense of collective responsibility, but we needed a different leadership and a majority, strong enough to be able to look beyond the fences of the majority and the opposition and also to give up a little of the political narcissism that we have seen at work in recent weeks. He spoke, because I wrote it down, now serious for the country and Europe and it is true, the time is serious, perhaps very serious. You called for sharing and collaboration, but you have to follow the words, President, because inviting to collaboration and sharing does not mean "I am the Government, I decide and you oppose shut up and listen" or "I am the Government, I decide, I fail, I continue to make mistakes and you must remain silent because there is a sense of responsibility." The task and the right-duty of the opposition is to try to improve the measures of the Government. That is what the opposition is for, and that is what the parliaments are for, President; not for formal tributes. We are not, therefore, being represented, as you and some of the majority try to do, like the irresponsible, like those of the much worse, all the better, because I want to remind you that from the beginning the oppositions all, not only the Brothers of Italy, have allowed the majority to approve the measures in the Commission and in the Chamber without putting in place any obstacles, even the smallest. We have given you the freedom to act for the good of the country, because the good of the country we really know. The good of Italy is written on our flags and is the groundwork of our party. We know how to distinguish between partisan interest and collective interest. Italy is always the end, it is never the means. From this point of view, I believe that we have given many examples in recent years. We tried to give practical examples, President, colleagues, even during the final approval (ahimè con confidenza) of the so-called Italian care decree. We have tabled our amendments, then we have reduced them to fifty and finally, at your request, we have reduced them to twenty legal amendments without any need for cover, that is, twenty collaborative common sense proposals. Of these twenty proposals, Mr President, zero was accepted. Let me give you a few examples: vouchers in agriculture. There is a dramatic need for vouchers in agriculture. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You have responded with the proposal of sanatoria for illegal immigrants. We asked you to suspend at least two years of the ISA, the old sector studies. It's crazy just to think about industry studies and ISAs, while the country is struggling with a dramatic crisis like this. You didn't even answer us about that. On the liquidity decree, all your forecasts are high, not because Brothers of Italy says so, but because the Bank of Italy said so at the hearing. It takes automatism: the small entrepreneur, the small trader and the small craftsman cannot make a mortgage and get into debt to pay taxes in June, but needs help to move on. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It needs help to pay for suppliers and employees, to restart the positive cycle of the economy, because otherwise it really doesn't do anything. And you explained to us that you know everything and we understand absolutely nothing. One last quick mention of the procurement code; for heaven's sake, let's change this procurement code. This isn't the procurement code, but it's the code not to do the procurement. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Instead, we need to free this country, at least now, at least on this occasion. But I repeat that all our attempts, these and others, which I do not quote because of the shortness of time, have been sent back to the sender. On the other hand, we had to understand it from the beginning, since the Italian decree cures for citizenship income provides confirmation of 720 euros, with the guarantee that they will be able to receive it in the future, even without access to training centers, and instead gives the misery of 600 euros to VAT matches, to those who have worked on their own and who have tried to create something for this country. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] We had to understand the political and ideological dimension within which this Government moves, which is still the victim of the trade unions and of the ideological and political hardness present within it, which does not accept compromises and dialogue. It is difficult to reason under these conditions, Mr President. And then I want to mention the plan for the restart. Look, President, I'm from Friuli, and in 1976 we had a devastating earthquake. In Friuli there is a saying, which also knows the children, which says: "First the factories, then the houses, then the churches". It starts from the world of work and enterprise. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I don't have a magic wand. She doesn't have a wand either, but you have to hurry. You can't wait until the end of the month to give directions to those who work. Another recommendation, in the most sincere way - believe me - and intellectually as honest as possible: in case of emergency speaks only one of the Government, only one; not this carnival of statements in which speak the President of the Council, the Ministers, the Deputy Ministers and the Subsecretaries. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You have appointed a Commissioner for Civil Protection, then you have joined him with a Commissioner for Civil Protection and, finally, you have appointed Colao, who is the Commissioner for Civil Protection. Is that serious, ma'am? In this context I only say that the scandal remains - because it is such - of a country, Italy, the second manufacturing power of Europe, which by 20 April 2020 is not yet able to guarantee self-sufficiency at least for the supply of masks. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] It is a scandal, Mr President, of which someone, if he has any dignity, should respond. You also mentioned the difficulties facing the Eurogroup. As I said at the beginning and as other colleagues have said, the moment is truly historic. This term is not used out of proportion because history is right in front of us, it changes our habits and it also calls into question the foundations of the European institutions. The scenario is truly dramatic; millions of unemployed, tens of thousands of businesses that we do not know if they will be able to reopen. In the background, the question: what will Germany do? Will you do as you have done in the last hundred years, in the crucial moments, when you have always sat on the wrong side of history? Mr President, I have listened for many years to the European rhetoric, even of people in good faith, who told us that Europe was born on the cornerstones of solidarity, friendship and mutual aid. I wonder, by asking my colleagues in the majority, whether these are the ideals of Europe and of Europeans. How far are these ideals from the Europe with which we confront each other every day, that they do not even realize what is happening in the face of the gravity of the facts? It is still dominated by speculators, lobbyists, political figures who are only the spokesmen of economic lobbying and tax havens and also by vultures, such as that lady, President of the European Central Bank, who did not hesitate to strike us behind when the epidemic seemed to strike and flare only in Italy. If this is Europe, we can frankly do without it. President. - I shall begin with the conclusion: of this rhetorical, empty and bankrupt Europe, which does not intend to change, the ESM is the precise and perfect summary, it is its plastic representation. I am not here to discern, as others have done, the 14 billion already paid, the 140 billion to be paid, the 36 that we could have, because the problem is whether Europe will understand at the European Council that we must intervene immediately, not this summer or autumn, with a plan of at least 1,000-1,500 billion, which is called coronabond, eurobond, recovery fund, call it what you want, but it serves and serves immediately because otherwise Europe - if it still exists - will die and disappear. Mr President, we believe that the negotiations you will be conducting on behalf of our country, our Italy, are very weak because of your decision to become strong only by your weak majority and not by the entire Parliament. We are also concerned that you are going to negotiate with political figures who have already shown total subalternity to the old European logics in the past. But if this worries us, it consoles us the hope - I would say the certainty - that Italy is a great country, that has already passed very difficult tests and will be able to rise again this time. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u36	She's registered to speak Senator De Petris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u37	Mr President, I have said a number of times and I repeat a question on which President Conte's information has been very clear today. I do not know if we really realize what has happened to us, what emergency we have been dealing with and what serious situations we still have to deal with today. They have said it in many and I repeat it: not only is it unusual and unexpected, but we are faced with the most serious crisis that perhaps for two or three generations no one had ever seen, with contours difficult to decipher. As you know, we were the first country in Europe to have been invested and, despite our experience and the problems we had, what have the other countries done? Did we forget what happened with the Premier's statements in Britain? Or underestimates in other countries? I say this because I still hear in this Chamber some hints in the speeches to underline once again the fact that we did not live up to it. In the face of this situation, our Government - I repeat here - has done everything possible to try to cope with the emergency. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] If we open this chapter, don't challenge me - and don't challenge us - to ask if maybe even in some parts of our country - see Lombardy - we were just as up to it. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There's a limit to everything. We too, this House, this branch of Parliament too, every single senator and senator must also live up to the moment we are facing. Understood? [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and ……]] I have never allowed myself to bring up such controversy in this House; yet you know that there are petitions, that there are so many citizens of that region who are asking for precise things, who are asking for truth and justice. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] And then I say it very clearly: once again I claim here, for this Government and for this majority, all the capacity. Of course - I say this because there is nothing to hide - all this has been unexpected and there will have been problems and uncertainties; but this is the challenge that we have had to face and that we still have to face. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Now the challenge we have to face is to govern well together, without escapes forward, without other ideological battles between Region and Region: the challenge of reopening. What is at stake is what must affect all of us, not only the economy, but once again the health of our citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] This is what I ask of the Government and what we will have to do together with the Government: to have clear and homogeneous lines, certainly with differences, but with very clear inputs, in order to start the reopening phase. What interests, and must affect everyone, is how reopening takes place: not only the times and not only from which supply chains, but how and what security systems are. We're going, and we're all already working on it, in a world we don't know. We were used to dealing with safety at work, with all the problems we had: would we have thought that we had to deal with a question of biosafety within jobs, if not in scientific laboratories? No. We have to face complicated and difficult situations. Now I get to the point that it warmed us so much. I am not wrong to anyone, not even to some of the speeches that have been made by the majority. The point is very clear: precisely because we are faced with an exceptional situation, I hope that Europe will live up to it (I have said so many times). This does not mean criticising Europe, it does not mean that we do not recognise the fact that so far important instruments have already been put in place, as many colleagues have said, for example with the intervention of the ECB. Great. But why are we concentrated, why are we trying to have alliances in Europe? You, Mr Conte, have done very well to mention France's proposal and that of Spain. Why did we try to build an alliance in Europe? Because at the moment it is necessary to put in place exceptional instruments, which help us first and foremost to support the debt. It would appear from some speeches that Europe has already given us everything, so we cannot understand what we are asking for. This is not the case, because the negotiation, which goes and must go with all the force that should come from Parliament to push the interests of the country, is to put in place additional exceptional instruments that have two characteristics: that are immediately fungible and, at the same time, that do not make us in debt forever. In fact, this is the other problem we have. So, Mr Conte, we give you full confidence to build an alliance on the basis of the proposals of Spain and France as well and with our corrections. Of course, we did not get as much help when, for example, we voted in the European Parliament on recovery bonds, for example, on national interests. [[Applause from the Mixed Group. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] As for the debate on the ESM, I just say one thing. As they have Prodi and, the other day, Lucrezia Reichlin, the problem is the same as when you go to a bank to take a mortgage: you have to understand how many years and how the interests are. In our country we have already had the experience of variable rates. It must be understood whether the conditions can change only for one part, or for one part and the other. That takes a lot of caution. You did well to remember, because we did not forget what happened in Greece, where I was to see the effects of the so-called memorandum. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] For this reason we need caution: no ideological debate and no prejudice, but defence of our national interests because any citizen would do so. The point is not the ESM, but the other instruments that must be put in place to really have funds that we can use for the sake of our country. [[Applause from the Mixed LEU, M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marcucci. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u39	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, authoritative Ministers and representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day because we are on the eve of a summit of Heads of Government, an extraordinary council which I believe will remain in the history of Europe and the world as it will manage a dramatic situation such as the one we are facing Many of my fellow Group leaders - myself - have strongly asked the President that this debate be made easily accessible also to the outside and public opinion of our country. I believe, then, that we must demand from ourselves and from all our colleagues that we be frank, sincere and practical and not joked analysis that can provoke the indignation of our country. Therefore, when I hear from some opposition forces that we should all or should do together the interest of our country, I would hope that all the interventions of all the Groups would end as the intervention of Senator De Petris ended: asking you, President Conte, to go to best protect the interests of our country and of the whole of Europe. [[Applause from the PD Group]] I believe that today's approach must be simply pragmatic and concrete and I urge you to adopt it. Europe has done some things; it has made some mistakes, but also some good things, it has given us signals. Of course we have quite clear - I think it is for you - what we need to achieve: Italy needs fresh and substantial resources that are delivered quickly (as fast as possible), so that they arrive quickly in support of our economy, citizens and public accounts. The important thing is that these resources come with European guarantees, of all people. In fact, it is obvious not that Italy could not do it alone, but that no country in Europe today could do it alone. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Moreover, the return times are equally important, which must necessarily be long, very long, with very low costs, in order to make them appropriate to current events. The Sure fund is important, but it has not yet arrived, it is not yet usable; we must work and force everyone to work so that that money for a substantial contribution to the extraordinary integration fund throughout the country is also given in Europe. EIB credit lines are a tangible sign: EUR 25 billion - which can activate almost 200 of them - is an important road and an example of how we can act by giving practical meaning to the things we are doing. And then there is the ESM, which seems to be the focus of political debate. I believe you have used the right words today, President Conte, saying that we need a fair and absolute caution against the ESM; so does the Democratic Party. We all know what the ESM was; we all know what we would like the ESM to become. We hope that we will arrive there; that the ESM is a source of high credit and guarantee, which allows countries to draw on these funds without any conditioning, with very long repayment times, with a very clear investment indication - health - and at an extremely low cost. If that were the case, perhaps we should, once and for all, remove a pebble from the shoe: let's not call it "MES" anymore; President Conte, work because it is no longer called "MES". If, however, these are the conditions, it is necessary, with the right and absolute caution, to consider whether to use it or not, once it is ready. If it is ready, we will have the opportunity to evaluate and decide, in the interests of our country, without prejudice. Prejudice does not belong to our political culture, Mr President. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nugnes]] Then, there are additional funds. We are, of course, talking about the intervention of the ECB, which, after the initial undoing (we do not hide it) has announced that it is available, with great force and with an important appropriation, to acquire Italian BTPs, such as the credit and debit card project that Europe will decide to issue. This will allow us to have access to money available to our country at reasonable costs. What would happen if there were no Europe? How would we manage this situation if there were no Europe? [[Applause from the PD Group.]] VOICE FROM THE L-SP-PSD'Az GROUP. Better! Mr Marcucci (PD). What are the rates that we should pay to sell our government bonds? Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not think that you, despite the attitude of some opposition forces, are being weakened by this House today. I'm one of those people who would have wanted an explicit vote. Moreover, the numbers are there, as we saw at the time of the vote on the timetable we did at the beginning of the sitting. The votes are there and they are clear. The majority is, it is strong, it is a parliamentary majority, but it is a majority that would have liked a different attitude on the part of the opposition. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups. Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He would have liked the same attitude that, compared to health events, is holding Minister Hope, without pointing against someone the index, but trying to protect the health of all Italian citizens [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] There will be the day of responsibility; there will be, in relation to the pandemic and the health issue, and there will also be the decisions that we will be able to make today and that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, will be able to achieve in that very important forum. Times are important, they are absolutely important, Mr President. The time to get an agreement and have an immediate disbursement of the funds (with rates that must be close to zero) and the time on the return, which must be very long. These are, in fact, the three conditions that will allow us to overcome, not only the health crisis, but also the economic crisis of which all of us today have vision and all of us have perception. Each of us lives in society; he knows what is happening in companies; he knows the fears of restaurateurs, hoteliers, traders, entrepreneurs, workers and pensioners themselves. We all know what is happening in Italy. We can do this. You, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, also referred in your report to two issues that I am very concerned about. The first one concerns the app. I'm just happy with the obvious. On such a sensitive subject, Parliament must not only have a say in this matter, but must have rules. We are willing to listen to the Government's proposals, possibly to modify them, improve them and make our contribution because public health comes first, however, that is a necessary parliamentary passage and I am glad that the Government has decided to engage in this direction. The other theme concerns phase 2 (which has now become the infamous phase 2), which is not an exit from the emergency: it must be the opportunity to relaunch our country system. We want a courageous and turning government that can live this moment as a great opportunity for the country. [[Applause from the PD Group]] Society, economy and welfare systems change after this world pandemic event and, then, we must not be content to dream of the night simply going back to the past. We must live this moment as a moment and a hypothesis on which to work for a new impetus, because we are a hardworking, credible country that has private initiative in blood and DNA. It is a country that can do it, that must do it and that would have wanted to do it with the support of all the parliamentary groups. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups]] AIROLA (M5S). President Conte, don't be fooled! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u40	Mr President, I address you in your capacity as a jurist and second office of the State in this, which, objectively, is one of the darkest moments in the history of the Republic and, perhaps, of the entire Italian history. At the Conference of Leaders on 24 February, when you explained to us how we could continue to work safely, it was said that it was at all costs necessary to prevent the health emergency from becoming an authoritarian emergency: Parliament had to continue to work. That concern has proved to be well founded: we have seen a number of constitutionally protected rights suspended or affected by administrative measures in close turn; I am counting at least nine of them: from personal freedom, freedom of movement, of assembly, of worship, of expression of thought, of teaching, of economic initiative, of judicial protection and of private property. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I do not allow you to indicate which of these rights are subject to legal reserve (in some cases absolute) and which double reserve (legal and judicial), but we were told that there were good reasons to do so. Article 32 protects health and you know, when there is health, there is everything. If, however, one has to go to the 32nd article of the Constitution to see this more important right recognized, it comes to think that the constituent Fathers did not know what to do with their health without democracy! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] I am talking about that democracy that has been recognized and protected since the first article of the Constitution. The pandemic offered PD a valuable opportunity to unbridled manifest its genetic totalitarian vocation. The Awesome Attack on the Constitution [[Comments from the PD Group]] , in the name of the hegemony of the right to health - also denied by judgments of the Supreme Court, as in the judgment No. 85 of 2013 - was led not by chance by the party that invited to vote on the science. We have moved from the dictatorship of the proletariat to the dictatorship of the scientist, to the scientocracy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] The lawyers are concerned, but there is also a crazy side: the "scientists" of the PD are those who at the beginning of February spoke of non-contagious disease and useless masks. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Comments from Group PD): similia similiabus]] ! It is clear to everyone, therefore, that it is not the aim of health protection that justifies certain means. These anti-democratic means have themselves become the end: the suspension of democracy, at a time when crucial choices are incumbent on the country not only in the health sector, choices that would require the full involvement of parliamentary bodies and, through them, of the people whose sovereignty belongs. We are witnessing, not inert, but unarmed in this transformation of democratic rules, of the rules of parliamentary democracy, which takes place in deafening silence. Parliament, not the ego of the Premier, is the only place where constitutionally guaranteed rights can be contested. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In order to circumvent its power of direction and control, however, it is not necessary to close it: just avoid going or coming there, as today, to tell us what we already know from the agencies, perhaps creating, for the handling of urgent affairs, a sort of third Chamber, the Chamber of Task Forces, a kind of Chambre des Pairs in which the horses of race of Italian capitalism are appointed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the PD Group]] More than Louis XVIII, the task forces of the autocrate dauno think of Caligula, who to express all his visceral contempt for institutions daughters of another season wanted to make consul Incitatus, his horse of race. The Premier told us that he avoided Parliament because the debate and divisions would weaken it. I would like to explain to him that politics does not exist just to attribute prebende, but above all because there is a fruitful diversity of ideas. Maybe the Premier, in pirouettering between one majority and the other, has lost his orientation, but I would remind him that all his previous majority and one qualified piece of the current one are contrary to the ESM. How could it have weakened it in Europe by voting on such a widely shared position? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The Premier, Mr President, has weakened with his unprecedented arrogance towards that Parliament which he said he respected and with his unprecedented ignorance of the dossiers he should have known. But was the Italian line in Brussels really to ask for eurobonds in exchange for the ESM? I'm a trasect. To ask for something that we have known for years that the countries of the North do not want - the eurobonds - in exchange for something that the South does not want? In fact, Mr President, the Mediterranean countries, particularly Spain, do not want to know whether to use the ESM for improper purposes, which do not conform to the original aims, so much so that they have put forward another proposal. But how, so much elegance, so polite, so much science of the world and then the first time you go to an important table all these gaffes are ringing, everyone is disgruntled? Beyond the enormity of these abuses of power, the one that is horrifying, because it conveys in full the sense of impunity of this Government superiorem non recognoscens, is that representatives of this majority boast that they have already taken decisions in European fora with serious consequences, by circumventing Parliament and their own majority [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] The MES is done, we are told. We must resign ourselves to think that our five-star colleagues, who we know are opposed to the ESM, unfortunately do not have the wisdom to imagine that they have been mocked, nor the dignity to draw the consequences, as we did last August, by withdrawing trust to a Premier who was already not responding to Parliament at the time. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Comments from the M5S Group]] Yet, for those who know recent history, or at least for those who spend more time at the desk than in front of the mirror, it is not difficult to understand what will happen for the umpteenth time. Just as on the occasion of the previous crisis the countries of the North rescued their banks with public money - and they still continue to do so - denying us this opportunity, so now the countries of the North will rescue with the money of the ECB their public budgets, monetizing the debt, after having denied us this possibility by doing us to supermmarket in debt with the ESM [[Comments from the M5S Group]] What do you say? Does monetization create inflation? Yes, I can confirm that. In the few days that separate us from Holy Thursday the price of betrayal has gone from 30 denari to 30 billion denari [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , those you have already asked the ESM without understanding that for an insufficient amount of money provided at too short deadlines and tied to jobs that will render its use inefficient - because we will finance the emergency health when it is finished - expose the country to jugulatory conditions. There is no MES without Troika, the treatises do not change with a pat on the shoulder to friend Valdis or whispering sweet words to the ear of friend Angela [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] But of course those who derogate from the Constitution by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers will think that it is possible to derogate from the Treaties by regulation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Today we learn from the press that this Government, which used the exceptionalness of the pandemic event as an excuse for its inadequacy, would already have had a plan on January 20 but would have kept it secret from Italian citizens in order not to scare them. But this same government, which treated Italians as fearful children, on February 4, having the gravity of the situation, rejected the request of the Governors to quarantine those who returned from China. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On January 27, the Premier announced: "We are very ready" and on February 9 he aired a commercial on the official media (open a parenthesis: just those media that, according to the task force against the fake news on the Covid-19, would be holders of the truth, precisely they lied) saying that the contagion was not easy at all. Result: over 23,000 dead. Do you understand Martella? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] You have taken exceptional measures, by suspending democracy, without allowing citizens to be fully aware of the extent of the danger; to prove that you have control of the situation, you have deployed a disproportionate coercive apparatus. Result? You are making envy to Italian citizens, who have shown an admirable discipline, the Forces of Order, to which our respect goes, that they should not be put in trouble on the eve of a period of great social tensions, that your inefficiency and your delays in managing the economic crisis will not fail to provoke. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Why don't you tell us when the money from the Integration Fund comes in? We didn't hear that. When's the Integration Fund coming in? In order to cheat Parliament, you said that you were in favour, then against, then a little in favour of the ESM, talking about packages, fans and other amenities. You spread lies about the positions of your opponents, when the decision had actually already been made. The answer was inside you and it was wrong. The situation is clear at this point. Everyone sees, Prime Minister, that anyone would be better than you. I do not know whether, as some say, the virus is the result of a poor experiment; you certainly are and, with the utmost respect for the laboratory from which you escaped, I would like to tell you that, because of the hygiene of that democracy that you so openly despise, you must resign. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u41	He's enlisted to speak Senator Malan. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we see that you have also had time to tell the Senate what you anticipated on Facebook this morning; institutional correctness or even simply good education would like the opposite to be done. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Not only have you asked your majority to prevent Parliament from voting, any chance of giving you a real and clear mandate for the day after tomorrow, when you go to the European summit, but you have also shown your contempt for those who, unlike you, have been elected by the citizens. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This is how he anticipated, to a means of private information, how kindly he comes to repeat here. This is not a problem of disregard for our people, including the majority, but it is a lack of regard for the Constitution and the Senate institution, which allows it to govern. Trust, in fact, has received it here, not on Facebook, so you should say things here and then, if anything, raise them as you please. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] This is particularly serious in this situation today, because it weakens its position, Mr Conte, when it finds itself with other European partners in a delicate negotiation, which is extremely important for Italy. Each country will try to give as little as possible to others and we will have to do so too; if she went with a clear mandate she would have more strength. So instead it has less and with damage to everyone. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and L-SP-PSd'Az]] Of course, it would have been problematic to agree with the parties of its majority on a written and clear text, because it is difficult to put together the needs of parties that have been insulting for years, sometimes even for some reason; particularly one, which very few years ago claimed that the solution to all evil was to get out of the European Union and the euro, the Movimento 5 Stars. Then he changed his mind, but it is certainly not easy to get to a written text. And instead he comes here to make statements for forty minutes when, then, each Group has ten minutes to reply talking about very vast topics. It would be nice to be able to speak on everything you have said, Mr President, but you have 40 minutes while we only have 10 minutes, so we focus on what you should have focused on: the day after tomorrow summit. In that forum, other countries, including Germany, will also impose constitutional constraints, sentences of their Supreme Court; instead, you may also ask them for trust. He didn't ask for anything here; he didn't ask for votes, he didn't even prevent them: perhaps he will ask for trust, also from other countries: "Give us confidence we don't know why." [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Bagnai]] Nevertheless, we at Forza Italia want to give you some suggestions because for us in the first place there are always the interests of Italians. We do not love the ESM that the Monti Government suffered in 2012, rigorist and punitive, the one that looms the foreign Troika; instead we were in favour of the original ESM, approved in 2010-2011, solidarity, aimed at development and security, which, in the face of the constitution of the saved-state fund, provided for the mutualization of debt with real eurobonds, European debt securities. That MES bears the signature of the president of the council Silvio Berlusconi and of the then minister of the communitarian policies Anna Maria Bernini. We are proud of that MES; we are proud to have determined it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] With the 2012 changes, eurobonds and genuine solidarity have disappeared. We are also opposed to the further changes that had been expected in recent months and we are asking you, instead, to say yes to the proposed recovery fund solution, a fund for the restarting of the economy guaranteed by the EU budget (not, of course, any fund), which as such should have more favourable rates than the Eurobonds, which we know other countries would still refuse. We would also ask you to demand that the use of the ESM for health expenses be without conditions both at the time of access and at the time of return. This must be guaranteed in writing, otherwise Italy must say no. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Romeo]] You will have to demand these written guarantees, unfortunately, going without a written mandate because you did not want it yourself. She prefers uncontroversial press conferences, which interrupt television programs, prefers to engulf her decrees that even the Ministries can't interpret, prefers direct Facebook [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Romeo]] ; prefers task forces with 400 people appointed with often questionable criteria, and also with questionable characters, such as the one that re-launches videos that incite violence against the head of state of an important foreign country. And then you're gonna come talk to us about the cut in the armchairs, with 400 people in the task force and the hundreds of appointments you're making these days. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Mr President, you say that Parliament will have the last word, but the last word is in danger of not being useful any more: you cannot wait for the wedding day to inform us about who the other groom is, what the conditions are, who pays the expenses or where the couple are going to live. You want the last word in Parliament to leave it in these terms. At the last moment you can also say no, but you have to build together first. You will be discussing very important matters on Thursday without a mandate from Parliament and, as it is something that has great repercussions and consequences on the future of Italians, we ask you to involve them. We ask you to take into account all the positions, especially those that have at heart the interests of Italians, because Forza Italia, faced with the interests of Italians, never backs down. We're always here. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u43	Senator Perilli is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u44	President Conte, today I find that you, as well as being a common criminal, as someone has called it, are also responsible for constitutional piracy, a prediction that still does not involve sanctions but that seems to be a fault of which you have been guilty. Why this? Simply because he tried to do things in a certain way. The decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers were not born out of nothing, but have a solid legal basis and voted by Parliament. There was a very clear speech: we must act quickly and we must move in a certain way because there must be a succession of actions in the interest of the country. This is his first fault. Mr President, they attack you because you deny false news; they attack you because you communicate with the country and do so in every possible way during an emergency. [[Applause from the M5S groups and the senators of Alfonso and De Petris]] ; they attack it because it takes responsibility for what it does, together with the Ministers and the Government, with a sure unitary action, which also takes into account the regional peculiarities and everything, but which is the most important in the chain. Taking responsibility has become a fault: so you know, Mr President, what was I thinking? What you're actually questioning is that you're doing well. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and Senator De Petris]] , because an opposition that does not see a safe guide in the country tries to make use of models - especially of the past - according to which, in the absence of a safe guide of the country, you could do what you wanted; but this, here, is not given. From a political point of view, therefore, I realize that there is a need to justify one's opposition, but it is true that there is a reference to responsibility and that one cannot give lessons when, from the point of view of political administration, a great deal has been done at home and on which there is probably much to be ascertained (and here someone is investigating). I want to deal with this here, now, very quickly. There is the judiciary that investigates, all right, but this must not be a pretext for saying that we do not want to protect doctors, because that is a shame. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Precisely because we want to protect doctors, patients and healthcare professionals, it is right that it should be clarified (and, according to what is being clarified, the first steps have already been taken, so be careful on this line). My colleague Bagnai accuses the Government itself of having made a pirouette, using a nice term, among other things, taken from dance. I would like to say to Senator Bagnai that he will also be a pirouette, but you have done much more: you have cast yourself out of this majority, in addition to turning, because you have had a lack of courage. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] I also find it very strange, Mr President, that we are talking about pirouettes or, in any case, about changes, changes and inconsistencies - I read the term - when a real disaster has taken place in Europe. I would like to ask Senator Malan, who defends the old ESM, who is notoriously, as he is known, the so-called strangle-state fund, according to a more extreme thesis. PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). No! Mr Perilli (M5S). This MES is proudly defended, saying that it was in favor of that kind of MES. During the Berlusconi Government, of course, that infernal instrument was created, which produced the poverty of many countries according to the thesis that circulates; at a certain point, it was said to be in favour of that ESM, then we went to Europe to vote against the Eurobonds and the League argued that there is unity also from them, while we would have some inconsistencies. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] It is the same League that magnified the ESM through Giorgetti: help me understand, because then it is said that I am too aggressive, but how can a clear indication from the President-in-Office of the Council be received from Parliament - so much so that you want to express it, as it should be, and by the way we will vote on it - when there are historical contradictions that come out? It is a fact that Giorgetti said that the MES was a magnificent instrument, that had to be used, an opportunity: did you forget it? Now you have introduced a law to abolish the balance of the budget and it always refers to your governments, so we give clear indications to the country; then, if one changes his mind, he can move or project himself out, as I said. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] Compared to this point, I heard Senator Bonino say that the ESM is not a trap - asking her to have the courage to say it firmly - and that this Europe is the one that makes the difference. I tried to put a question mark and it worked very well: what Senator Bonino said did not have to have that assertivity, according to my point of view, because putting a question mark allows me to say the following. In our opinion, and we repeat this once again, Mr President, it has been said that the ESM is inadequate and that it is far from adequate, but from the legal construction that comes from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, cascaded on various regulations, on paper it is very difficult, almost impossible, for it to be resolved in that ESM light without conditionality. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] So I would say - and I dare say so, dear Senator Bonino - that in my opinion it can be a trap. Then the President of the Council says that we do not yet know and we will see what will happen, but a reconstruction that clearly addresses the terms that are there, referring to regulatory texts, is a fact and is not rebellious of the Movimento 5 Stars or reckless action or irresponsibility. It's a line up how things are done compared to a past. And, in fact, if Senator Bonino says "I prophesy this" or "I will tell you this," to prophesy you must have an experience of the past and the present. That of the past is certainly not the direction and there is no doubt. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I know - and I say this to my colleagues in the League - that this argument you take over from the ESM - saying, among other things, that we have signed it - takes you so far that you do not understand that there are positions here that come together to the President-in-Office of the Council on our part too. But, in order to go further and use this issue, we have to say the wrong things and you have to get the President of the Council to say that there was no signing of the ESM. But it must be made clear to the people, because otherwise you will mock him. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] But why do we not reason in a debate, as the President said? Then, on Europe just now, the President said that, if it had not been there, we would really be on the fringes of the economic and financial world. And I say that, precisely because the Government has been able to direct the European debate and has taken courageous, unprecedented and unprecedented action, as many as eight states have begun to focus on the idea of a shared debt, a shared effort and solidarity also at European level, so much so that the President mentioned the Constitution, Senator Bagnai. But this is also provided for in the Constitution: our internal solidarity principle must be at European level, so we transpose the values of our Constitution into the European framework. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator De Petris]] But this has not happened before because Europe has always been accustomed to putting in unchangeable patterns and the action of the government has made the loud voice heard. I am surprised: the greatness and authority of Italy is always mentioned and then, before an action that does nothing but elevate the image of our country, you back out. A Navy officer, at the time of the birth of the American nation, said one thing: right or wrong, it's my country and I love my country. This is fundamental, because it means having a conception of the State, the Government and the national unity that will lead Italy to be able to negotiate, to be able to impose itself before all the other Member States and to get what we want. What do we want? The direction has been indicated: the eurobond, solidarity and the effort of all to achieve a common target on debt. It is clear that the differentiations existing in the economy of the various countries must find a synthesis in the interest of even the weakest countries. And it is not, dear Malan, the old MES, which he longs for when he has his memories - excuse me - and falls asleep, but it is a new debt sharing. President, next to this new course, which is always in the name of debt, we also allow ourselves to start an internal exploration of resources; that is, in order not to increase more and more the debt exposure of our country, with everything that follows - we will see the action of the ECB, we will see the fate of the recovery fund, eurobonds and all this - it is also important to understand alternative forms of internal self-financing research that can rely on innovative means and could act as a state cash at this time and produce important liquidity. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You could resort to private savings, voluntary, which would immediately give a liquidity and finally a role to the Italian people vis-à-vis your country. There are all these roads, but I dare anyone to say that they are not in the interest of the country. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u45	I declare closed the debate on the information of the President of the Council of Ministers, whom I thank for his willingness.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u46	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u47	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u48	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, as a citizen of Lombardy, I want to speak about the dramatic case of Lombardy, without any controversy. And I do this first of all by expressing my total solidarity with the thousands of Lombard citizens who have lost their family members, who have relatives who suffer or work every day risking their lives. We all know, in fact, that the case of Lombardy is the worst we have in Italy and among the worst in the world. I speak as a citizen of Lombardy to try to clarify some of the issues that the Lombardy Government has not wanted to clarify. I simply want to remind you that only a couple of days ago the secretary of the party that governs the Lombardy Region, probably faced with a few million Italians on television, said that the government of Lombardy could not create red zones to limit the contagion. I am talking in particular about Nembro and Alzano Lombardo, in the province of Bergamo. It is a claim that hurts, and it hurts so much more to the Region that it recorded about half of the deaths throughout Italy and about 10 percent of the deaths of coronavirus worldwide. It hurts because it's fake. In fact, there is Law No. 833 of 1978, even recalled in one of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which says that the Region can intervene in cases of emergency. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So the contagion could be limited, the government could and citizens must know that there are possibilities. It is not just any law, but it is the founding law of the National Health Service, the legal gospel for those who govern a city. I would also like to remind you of something obvious, but it must be reiterated. I address everyone, but also and above all to my fellow citizens in Lombardy. Health management is in the hands of the Regions. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Citizens suffer. I suffer when I feel the responsibility first on the government, then on the technicians of the regional administration, then on the government commissioners. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments of Senators Nisini and Pergreffi]] It is the exact opposite: we must start from mistakes made, learn and make up for mistakes because the dead are too many. Was it a mistake to send the infected, the positives from Covid-19 in the Health Care Residences (RSA)? Yes, it was and President Fontana must tell the Lombard citizens. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Was it a mistake to cut and dismantle territorial medicine? Yes, and that's one of the reasons for the spread of the infection. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Was it a mistake to give 10 out of 20 billion public money to private health care? Yes, it was a mistake and we must start again from mistakes. Lombard citizens - and I say this as a Lombard citizen - must not be seen as voters: Lombard citizens are people who deserve care. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by simply addressing those who allowed themselves a few hours ago - it is always the Secretary of the Party that governs the League - to say that they are proud of the Lombard government... PERGREFFI (L-SP-PSd'Az). We are! NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, we are. Toninelli (M5S). I tell him to go and ask the families of the more than 12,000 Covid-19 victims and the many thousands of deaths that are not registered Covid-19 just because they haven't done the tampon. He will see what fine words they will answer him. NISINI (L-SP-PSd'Az). You're shameless! Toninelli (M5S). You'll see how they answer him. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Protests from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u49	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u50	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u51	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on the premise that Mr Toninelli should only be ashamed of himself [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] for the cowardly, unmotivated, irresponsible and reckless attack that he addressed to Lombardy. And I remind my colleague Toninelli that, if health care is in the hands of the Regions, the emergency is in the hands of an absent and incapable Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I say this, Mr President, because I come here from the outskirts of Italy with my bare hands and empty hands, as the Count Government has left us to me and many other mayors. He left us alone to fight the Coronavirus emergency: with bare hands and empty hands. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We don't know what gloves, masks, and disinfectant gels mean by this government. We have not had answers regarding Tari, Imu, taxes, thick for all those who have to reopen the shutters. And when the Count government sent some change to the municipalities - the 400 million to which it referred - I want to remind you that that money was not enough to satisfy the needs of all those who were hit by the emergency: it was a misery and they are already gone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] President Conte, ladies and gentlemen, flees Parliament, because he speaks to him, listens to him and does not let him vote; but he also flees from the territory, because it is shameful that since the beginning of this emergency he has systematically hurled at some regions and continues to do so today. It's shameful! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Papatheu]] I tell you - and I conclude - as a man of the South: for us who have experienced migration for reasons of work and health, Lombardy has always been synonymous with solidarity and efficiency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a fact that you cannot erase in any way. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that the pettyness of this Government, of the President of the Council and of the majority who support it... [[Protests from M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups. Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u52	Stop it, please. Let's finish the surgery.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u53	[[Protests from M5S and PD Groups.]] SANTANGELO (M5S). You must enforce the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u54	Stop it, please. The intervention was perfectly consistent with the pre-announced argument. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Senator Toninelli asked to speak on the Lombardy case and Senator Pepe asked to intervene on the government's support for the territories during the Covid emergency and, therefore, was perfectly in line with the argument what he was saying. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] SANTANGELO (M5S). Shame on you! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I find this protest intolerable. I didn't interrupt anyone and no one has to be interrupted, ever. We are in the Italian Parliament. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] I don't like factions: I've allowed everyone to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u55	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-21-LEG18-Senato-sed-208.ana.u56	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday 22 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 5.23 p.m.
