ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9:02 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 2054, already approved by the House of Deputies. I recall that during yesterday's sitting the general discussion took place, Articles 2 to 20 of the draft law were approved, with annexed tables, and the representative of the Government put the question of trust in the approval of Article 1, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the term trust must certainly be very dear to the majority, but not very much present this morning in the Senate House. It is a term that should be very dear to you, because it is not a day that we are not called into Parliament's classrooms to express a vote of confidence or, as far as I am concerned, proudly of distrust. Ladies and gentlemen, if you are so pleased with your confidence, it would perhaps be appropriate for you to go and ask for confidence in the Italian people, those millions of Italian citizens who are suffering from the inability of your government action. But no: who knows why you only ask for trust here, in the parliamentary classrooms. You do so even in the presence of a majority that clearly no longer exists, because I believe that the words of your partner, Matteo Renzi, resound in your brains in a very strong way. Trust does not really exist among you either, but, counting on the power of the seats, come and ask it daily, in the House. What, then, do you ask for trust? On a maneuver that, on Christmas Eve, one of the main national economic newspapers, "Italy Today" has defined "maneuver a thousand and a tip." Is it on this budget law that you want confidence? You'll probably pick it up, colleagues, in just over a couple of hours. You will collect it for those reasons that Italians have well known, but when the time comes they will certainly know how to make you serve this vocation to the armchair and power in spite of the national will. It is a maneuver - I will prove it to you - made of tips and tips; a maneuver of 40 billion that are added to the more than 100 billion of the Covid decrees that have indebted this country, have indebted us, our children and our grandchildren. But you have not done so, as the emergency would have required, for structural reforms and for a truly extraordinary maneuver, how extraordinary it must have been at such a delicate time for our country. You did it for donations, tips and for other reasons that we will now list. Instead, we needed a revolutionary and extraordinary maneuver, as extraordinary are the times we are living; a maneuver that finally gave our country those reforms in the field of taxation, justice and health that everyone has been calling for for years, from every political and economic point of view. If you do not make these reforms, if you do not at least try to set up these reforms, when you spend 140-150 billion in a few months, when do you think that this country can really start the cycle of reforms necessary for our future? You, ladies and gentlemen of the Democratic Party, probably were more interested in putting Monte dei Paschi di Siena and UniCredit in place at the moment, as Mr Urso explained very correctly yesterday. It was more important to settle Padoan, to settle the private interests of a bank, or rather two banks, which now end up in the beehive of your power, not recognized by the country but recognized by your bureaucracy, your interests and your Brussels interlocutors. Therefore, the friends of the Movimento 5 Stars (I would never have thought so), while not always sharing much of their positions, have made themselves "instruments" (I want to use a kind term) so that this could happen; tools to be on the one hand prone to the economic and financial interests of high finance and, on the other hand, tools to be ready again to a Europe that is ridiculing us. It is your Europe, which is not ours, which is allowing Germany, which is its tow, to buy millions of doses of vaccine at the expense of other European countries. This is your Europe, this is your false Europeanism, which is especially convenient to take home the banks, but not to do the interests of Italians. Let's also take a look at some numbers. It's a dancing maneuver. It wasn't ritual, but I'm doing it a lot now, quoting newspapers that have always been related to you. You have read today's Republic titled: Are we losing EU funds? What do you mean, translated into the reading of the budget law? It means that your budget law, in addition to being politically inconsistent, is not standing, because your cover (in addition to the debt that - as I said before - will weigh on our children) is based on European subsidies and tax feedback from European grants and EU funds. You are basing a maneuver of 40 billion on the tax feedback and on the effects of European funds, which are, moreover, quite random. It is not said by Brothers of Italy, today it is said by the Republic on the front page and said by the same newspaper last Monday in the economic insert. Therefore, your budget maneuver is not standing in political content and is not standing in financial coverage. Mr President, let me say in conclusion that you could have done something, at least in the budget law, for the invisible and for the professionals. Yesterday Marina Calderone, president of the Unitary Committee Professions, accused you of not recognizing the role of professionals. You have done nothing, you have not responded to any cry and to any political and economic request of this country. However, you have responded to your personal and private interests, to the interests of Monte dei Paschi, Padoan and UniCredit. The Italians will remember it; sooner or later we will vote and it will be recognized who has the confidence in this country, not who takes it only in this House to keep their seats firm. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u6	She is registered to speak Senator Gallicchio. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u7	Mr President, today we are voting on the key measure of the economic maneuver that closes the current year. One year, 2020, which has no precedent in the history of our country, marked by the serious pandemic by Covid-19, which has upset the lives and work of many Italians. A year that has required all of us, in Parliament and the Government, extraordinary work, driven by the need to protect every sector, every supply chain, every single worker damaged by the effects of the pandemic and in the meantime foresee the measures and investments to build Italy of the future. Between maneuver and emerging decrees we are injecting more than 140 billion euros into the economy, equal to five financial ones in a single year. It is understood that this is a great deal of unprecedented interventions that have been approved very quickly. In the same way we have provided a lot of tools to raise the country, without leaving anyone behind. The time available to me is short and I do not want to read my entire speech. I go quickly and therefore devote only a few minutes to the most important issues of maneuvering, those most requested by citizens: work and employment. There are important measures in this maneuver on the contribution side throughout the national territory with regard to the recruitment of young people up to thirty-five years, specifically with regard to the employment of women and the relief and support for the enterprises they hire in the Mezzogiorno, the so-called South Decontribution. Speaking of the South - I come from the South and this subject touches me a lot - the "Resto al Sud" instrument has been strengthened, extending the age group for the presentation of projects. These instruments, combined with the extension until 2022 of the tax credit for investments in capital goods and research activities in the Mezzogiorno, combined with the strengthening of the "Youth Employment" incentive in the South and the strengthening of the special economic zones (ZES), in order to allow these territories to have exclusive administrative simplifications and tax reliefs, will allow a real relaunch of our Mezzogiorno. [[Applause]] In this regard I would also like to point out that investing in the South does not mean giving preference to a part of the country, bringing together resources destined to remain in place. Of course not, because between the South and the Centre-North there is a great economic interdependence (we know that), so much so that, as many researches have shown, for every 100 euro invested in the South a return of wealth is produced for the benefit of the Centre-North even more than 40% of the value of the investment. This type of investment is a concrete aid to all the territories, in particular to the most disadvantaged ones, a push to reduce unemployment throughout the country, a social rebalancing, of which we need so much, and a concrete help to the whole country system. There are many other important issues in the budget law, which are fundamental for the restarting of the economy that will follow the pandemic, also taking advantage of the opportunity that offers us to preserve the environment of which we are an integral part. I am thinking above all of the great issue of energy transition. Born as a dream, it is now becoming a reality. We have encouraged the purchase of low emission cars and made mandatory, for road dealers, to install charging columns for the latest generation electric cars. We have extended the super bonus to 110%, much awaited, which is an extraordinary measure to make our homes safer and more energy efficient. [[Applause]] This is mainly due to the total support of the State. This measure is extended to 2022 and we plan to extend it to at least 2023, to allow the creation of a real virtuous circle, capable of creating a shocking boost to the economy that really needs it. I would like to stop here, even if there are many other issues. A note, however, I would like to do so. I would like to respond to some criticism that came from the opposition benches. It is true, as they say: the measure under consideration saw the active intervention of a single Chamber. Right, that's right. This, in an ordinary year, would have meant a serious vulnus for bicameralism and for democracy, but in this extraordinarily difficult year, marked by emergencies and the need to do quickly and well, in the exclusive perspective of the emergency, the unprecedented capacity for collaboration between the two Chambers, which, in fact, brought together the active Chamber, through the parliamentary groups, the amending proposals of the senators, allowed them to discuss and examine them together with the others. This exceptional collaboration is linked to the emergency situation. Therefore, it is not a drama for democracy; no attack on the Constitution. On the contrary, it is proof that perfect equalism has been fundamental, because it is capable of giving Parliament resilience in these difficult times. I would like to conclude by thanking my Group, the Movimento 5 Stars, of which I am proud, because it has not been broken by the thousand difficulties encountered, because it has worked and continues to work tirelessly, united, at the service of the citizens, without ever losing energy. [[Applause]] That same energy we entered these buildings on the first day. A group, the Movimento 5 Stars, which was fundamental in the decisive and quality response to this serious pandemic crisis. People who have the tenacity and vision that serves to build a healthy, strong, modern country to leave to the next generations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u8	Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Government, we are about to adopt the budget law for 2021 with a vote of confidence. Having said that, I will use my time to make some considerations that I think are important to everyone. Certainly, the year 2020 has been a year that we can call apocalyptic and therefore, over time, will change our society, dynamics, the economy, social relations and also consumption habits. It has been such a strong year that we will no longer be able to live as before and we will not even be able to afford to think that it will be enough to resume from 2019, from where we had interrupted our habits. To get out more aware, to get out stronger, you need a really important paradigm change, a really important challenge. We need a very respectful choice towards those who have suffered, those who are still suffering, those who have made sacrifices and are still making enormous sacrifices, but above all a necessary choice because if we do not change paradigm, if we do not change the approach to problems, we risk succumbing Italy. The numbers we read - less than 9 percent of GDP and the debt-to-GDP ratio almost 160 percent - tell us, with the clarity and hardness of which the numbers are usually carriers, that if we don't take this situation very seriously, if we don't face the problems that have been on the table for many decades, but especially if we don't start to grow decisively, we won't be able to support this huge debt. We say so, but they also say that economists absolutely illustrious and to listen to, like Draghi and Governor Visco. We really don't have an alibi or an alternative. We certainly need to tackle structural reforms, from fairer and faster justice to public administration relations with businesses and families, tax payers' relations with tax payers and tax payers. We need to reform our work in such a way that it is more livable and productive and that social shock absorbers serve the purpose of putting people back into the world of work. It is therefore necessary to tackle all the reforms that have been on the table for years, which Europe has been recommending for years, but for which, perhaps, we have never had the strength and political stability and not even the courage to say no when it was necessary. To start growing again means not to be content to restore that growth similar to the stagnation that we had until 2019 and probably not even to be satisfied with the expected effects in government documents, that is, the additional positive effect on the growth that the National Recovery and Resilience Plan should generate in our country. As the member of the Executive Committee of the European Central Bank, Panetta, says, in order to make this situation sustainable we need additional growth given by the Next generation EU at least equal to more than 3.5-4 percent. Only in this way will we be able to bring the short-term debt ratio back to less than 5 percentage points and, over the decade, over the medium to an ante-crisis level. It is a challenge, the real challenge, which we must have absolutely in mind: we must reabsorb the enormous gap that we have created this year with the 108 billion deviations, voted on also by the oppositions, which have brought the deficit to less than 10.8% and the debt-to-GDP ratio to the above level. This means that we will be weighed not on the measures taken this year, even important and necessary to overcome the situation but we will be measured and evaluated on the ability to absorb all this and to put Italy in a position to recover. This is a very important challenge because these measures, taken in the course of the year that hit the situation, will be able to save part of the economy, but some of the effects will inevitably be permanent, so from now on, we have to consider how the Government and Parliament will have to shift resources and workers and convert skills to the new emerging economies. However, it will be a difficult choice, perhaps a choice that we should have anticipated in the formation of the people who were still at this stage and who were probably already willing to devote time to their formation towards the new economies. The shock has already caused a partial conversion with digitalisation and process transformation. One part will be determined by the Next generation EU, but inevitably part of the change depends not only on companies and economic policy, but on the context and capacity of our Parliament and ours to face structural reforms of public administration, justice, but also investment. For these reasons Italy Viva, long before the crisis, insists on the shock plan for Italy. If we do not invest and do not put companies, then private and public investments, under the conditions of generating an active movement towards growth, we will not be able to get out of this situation. That is why the reflection we have asked the Government and the majority is important; it is not a provocation or an aut aut, but an important reflection. Deciding to close everything or close it in color or in zones, as we have done in the enormous effort of this year, was a simple choice, but the choice we have to make, from January onwards, is very difficult, because we have to face and solve problems that generations before us have not solved, and we absolutely cannot miss. We are sorry, therefore, if we have also disturbed, at this stage, asking vehemently, but we wanted to be sure that we are ready to face this crisis. This is because the doubt of not being ready came to us before reading the draft of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, before jumping into the bed - given the time - reading that amendment that would replace task force, government and public administration with a task force of three hundred outside. The doubt had already come to us by reading the Update Note of the Economy and Finance Document in October, when it did not foresee, if not as a worse scenario, the second wave of pandemics. From a macroeconomic point of view, this was more or less taken up in the perimeter, but from the point of view of law enforcement measures it had not been adequately foreseen. We had the demonstration in the panetto of the four decrees-restoration laws and in the delay of one month of the landing of the bill of budget to the House, which involved the fact that today we are here to give confidence in the provisional exercise, without having been able to discuss it. The doubt that we are still not exactly clear about the scale of the challenge also comes from the budgetary manoeuvre. It is true that there are some very valuable elements, such as the introduction of both national and European resources in a single framework of public finance, and also the provision of a mix of loans - hence of greater deficits - and subsidies, but the composition of the maneuver leaves us with some important doubts. The first is the amount of the smaller measures introduced: by adding up, they are almost 8 billion smaller measures. Not all are negative, indeed, but they are definitely fragmentary and uneven; here we still do not see the strategic line and the seeds of the turning. Much of the maneuver is dedicated to restoring and continuing the buffer resources of the decrees-laws care Italy, restorative and August: therefore the same mentality, the same prospect of only help and grant only also for the future. But above all there are problems about the future: we anticipate with the Rotation Fund the resources of the Next generation EU, and we do so by committing resources for a tax reform that is not yet there, for a tax reform of which, since there are no measures, we do not know how to assess the impact on growth, but taking into account the tax feedback. Attention, because on the Mezzogiorno we invest 16 billion in three years for decontribution by deciding not to invest billions on tax credit for investments, when such tax credit would have guaranteed real investments and for the future, while the tax credit on existing stocks only consolidates a status quo, without triggering any change and no prospect in this respect. Mr President, at this stage we have asked for a review to see if we have clear in mind the scope of the challenge, and we want the President-in-Office of the Council, the Government and the majority to take very seriously the reflections we have put forward. We also know that the reflections can be resolved: one we have resolved, that of the task force. In the budget law there is a directing booth incarnate at the General Accounting Office of the State, which will monitor and report on our plan for the future. That is the way forward. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u10	Senator De Carlo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u11	Mr President, we mayors are used to a kind of pragmatism, especially at times like what we are experiencing, in difficulties, when citizens come knocking on our door or pulling our jackets. On the contrary, today so many of us are forced to speak in this House during the forty-eight hours which, by pardon, you have left to the debate on the measure that I remember being the most important of the year, in the most important House, which is the Upper House. I repeat: only 48 hours. It is a very serious fact, beyond the excuses that each of you camp, probably to justify its inadequacy to play this role and above all to find us today, on December 30, without the possibility to discuss the provision or to affect it, after your colleagues in the other House instead filled it with ad hoc brands, which have probably satisfied some circle of the bridge of their home. But we try to move forward and put you in front of your responsibilities. Two years ago for much less the PD staged a theater here too, complaining about the few spaces made available to them, and even an appeal to the Court. The 5 Stars in the past legislature - the pages of the newspapers have filled them - have even climbed to the roof of the House to protest against the now invasive demand for trust placed on every measure. Today I am telling you: you have probably reached 33 requests for confidence, with today's one, and so I do not think there is any time left for you to discuss issues such as democracy, transparency, issues that you have put in the background to maintaining your parliamentary status. These forty-eight hours did not rain from heaven at random, but they have a specific responsibility; they are not determined by the situation and not even by an opposition that has made - by chance - the opposition. That is not the case, because we have also been cooperative in the House; we have tried to make improvements, in some ways, and this was well said by the Lollobrigida Parent Company when it intervened, citing all the work done and carried out in the Commission by the three Commissioners, Mr Trancassini, Mr Rampelli and Mr Lucaselli. The cause of the delay lies rather in your inability to present a document on 20 October. You have arrived with a month's delay, from which has followed a continuous chase, between a Zan bill, which had the sole objective of putting the gag to those who do not think like you, to the revision of the law on safety, but above all - dear colleagues - I quote the ballet for your armchairs. You have been engaged in tactical operations rather than strategic. Too bad that it is this nation that we proudly share in and that we try, in the collective interest, to improve and keep afloat. Instead, you let yourself be fooled by a leader of a majority party who - to use a football metaphor, in the version "El Trinche" Carlovich, that someone may not know, but that I invite you to look - made fun of you, while you were stunned, with the same expression as those who had just suffered a tunnel on the field. These are the reasons for your delay, which unfortunately is not exceptional either, and it is not true that it is due to the contingent situation. I would remind you that you have been experiencing this situation for a year and a year, and you know that since you were elected, what is the time required for the presentation of the budget law. You can't even say economic reasons, because you've had 140 billion and our fear is that, if you have 207 of the recovery fund, you will use them with the same partition logic, useless and dispersive with which you used them. You won't do much good to this nation. I fear that the emergency is not the pandemic that struck us, but the fact that you are not able to handle it and therefore the true trust - Senator De Bertoldi quoted it first - must not be the one you repeatedly ask of us and even today, but the one that you should have the courage to ask the Italians. And then you'd realize that maybe the perception that you have in here of the work you're doing isn't exactly the same as the one that people have out of here. It would not explain why all categories have something to say about your maneuver and that certainly does not depend on the fact that they are spoiled or accustomed to marchettes: they simply realize that this maneuver does not give any stability to this nation. The maneuver, beyond the marchetta, does not allow an entrepreneur, accustomed to make planning, to know whether or not tomorrow he will open his business. I think and quote, not by chance, the ski lifts: it is still not known whether 7 January, 20 January or 1 February can be opened. This is what entrepreneurs are asking for and not for tips, which exist not for them, but for citizenship income and banks. Never let your commitment fall on the latter. Cashback, sold as a form of market support, is the biggest tip made to banks with 4 billion, which will be the only ones to benefit from it with their commissions. But you never forget those. In the same way, never forget your perverse and welfare ideology that leads you to allocate another 4 billion for your citizenship income. You forget, however, all those companies that are suffering today and to which you have devoted a few refreshments rather than compensations, and for which 2.5 billion are provided for in this maneuver, which are nothing if compared, on the other hand, with the resources that you use for other and the fact that the maneuver is 40 billion. There are 2 billion for the support of those companies. Gentlemen, we are not like you, and we never were. We have always put national interest before our particular interest: it is something that you cannot say and cannot explain. That's why there's no live TV today. It is no coincidence that today your leader, the President-in-Office of the Council, at 11 am, during our explanations of vote, is engaged in a live television. [[Applause]] It is a way to divert attention from your responsibilities, your embarrassment and the ineptitude of the government. The only serious act you can do after the approval of this non-maneuver is to put your mandate back on the table and make sure that the Italians choose their government and surely many of your faces will no longer appear in this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u12	Senator De Carlo, thank you for the perfect respect of the times. You, on the other hand, are used to the records: I do not remember other Members who were members of both the House and the Senate in the same legislature. Congratulations! Senator Fantetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u13	Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of the Italian Foreign Associative Movement (MAIE), of which I have the honour to be a member, in order to confirm the confidence of the Government and thank him for having collected many requests that we have placed in the name and on behalf of Italians abroad. That's exactly nine. The first instance was the restoration of the IMU exemption for Italian pensioners in the world. Although only 50%, it is a step forward, and we think and hope to complete it. We want, however, to give credit to the Government and, in particular, to the intercourse with the team of Ministers and Undersecretaries for relations with Parliament, and to Mr Amendola, for having spoken with the European Commission on this point. It is very important for our Italian pensioners abroad, who were discriminated against compared to pensioners in Italy. Secondly, the resources allocated to managing bodies, which are very important abroad, have been increased because they promote the teaching of the Italian language in the world. At the same time the fund for Italian language and culture abroad has been confirmed. It is a pride of this majority. Funds have also been provided for Italians in the world enrolled in AIRE. I remember that it is 6 million and, although it is a very underestimated figure compared to reality, it makes up 10 percent of the Italian population. We must all be aware that a 15% of the Italian population is likely to live abroad. I am not talking about italics of origin, but about Italian citizens, 6 million are enrolled in AIRE. For them, important measures have finally been envisaged. The Agency of revenues - for example - has remembered that, in regard to the tax deduction of the superbonus to 110%, the taxpayers resident and not resident in the territory of the State that support expenses for the execution of soft interventions - is the aspect that interests us directly as compatriots abroad - can opt, in place of the direct use of the deduction, for the alternative modalities of use previewed, that is those of the discount in invoice or of the cession of the credit in the cases in which they do not have incomes in Italy, beyond that land or of the properties to restructure. I note that many Italians abroad are real estate owners in Italy and, therefore, the extension to them of the superbonus for deductions is particularly welcome. In addition, the measures to facilitate the return of brains, especially those who have shown, returning to Italy, a real interest to remain, because they can show that they have children, that they own houses, that they are willing to stay in Italy. We have fought this battle alongside our colleagues in the House of Deputies and we are very pleased that the relevant requests have finally been accepted. Further funds have been allocated to the recruitment of new human resources for the consular network: it is about 150 units between officials and contractists; staff who, once taken place in the various diplomatic-consolary fora, will serve to make the work more agile and faster. It is therefore a further service for Italians abroad. As regards the institutional structure of the Italian representation abroad, I have the honour to recall that it is unique in the world and is based on three levels: one basic, that of the Committees of Italians abroad (Comites), which we have only; the French have borrowed from the Italians the institutional representation of the French abroad and have provided for a parliamentary representation at the summit and a General Council of French abroad, which has been copied by our General Council of Italians abroad (CGIE). They have forgotten the most important part that we, as true democrats, appreciate and defend, that is, the Comites, those representations that, like the Municipalities in Italy, are used in every consular district in which more than 25,000 Italians reside - so many in the world - to represent their interests. The Comites have been stuck for ten years. Despite an ordinary law that finances them and provides for five-year renewal, they have been blocked for ten years, but finally in 2021 Italians abroad will be able to re-elect their basic representations in all consular districts. The Comites are an extremely important democratic exercise and can finally be renewed with this action. For ten years the State-Regions-Autonomous Provinces-CGIE Permanent Conference was blocked, which must interlogate with the institutions in Italy. I repeat that it has been blocked for ten years and, finally, the funds for this very important conference that will be held in the autumn and to which the Italians abroad look with extreme interest, as well as the representatives of Regions who, through their administrations, have direct contacts with the communities of Italians abroad. This measure is particularly welcome. The last - but not for importance, at least from a personal point of view - is a historic battle that I have carried out for ten years and that I thank my colleague Mario Borghese, also of the Italian Association Movement abroad (MAIE), for having done precisely to the Chamber of Deputies; but above all I thank the majority and this Government for having welcomed it. At last it will be officially recognized by the Italian State the Italian catering abroad: the paragraphs from 1144 to 1848 define an organic intervention that will serve to institutionalize, recognize, protect and promote the real made in Italy agri-food. I would like to point out that we are proud of the Italian soiling activities that are being carried out within our territory, but we are totally helpless compared to what happens abroad. We have very important world trade fairs where our producers have stands next to which there are italian floating stands, perhaps even more substantial, and they can do nothing. At last it has been recognized - we have tried to explain it for ten years - that the real ambassadors, the real defenders of Italianity are the Italians abroad, the restaurateurs, the owners of pizzeria exercises, the holders of ice cream exercises; we speak of tens of thousands of exercises in the world that will finally see recognized their specificity, on the basis of criteria that an implementing decree of the Ministry of Economic Development will have to issue within six months. It is very important for both Italians abroad and those in Italy who produce excellence. We finally create a new distribution channel for our products abroad, where we are weak in the large organized distribution. It is a channel that was at our disposal and that no one had ever had the intelligence to understand and value. Finally, this has been accepted. Yesterday in the Senate we had a press conference, and there is a video for those interested in getting into the detail of this initiative. There is unanimous praise from the trade associations, chefs and agri-food production, as well as from the networks that will be officially responsible for monitoring and certifying these definitive certifications. I am referring, in particular, to the Agency for the promotion of Italian companies abroad and the internationalisation of Italian companies, to the diplomatic-consular network for its aspects, but, above all, to the network of chambers of commerce abroad. These three networks of ours abroad, which are the only ones we have, finally make a team with the network, that was there and that nobody wanted to see and had the common sense to recognize, tens of thousands of Italian restaurants in the world. I remember a French colleague asking me if a Vietnamese had opened a restaurant at the Champs-Élysées calling it "Roman Osteria" where he would serve spring rolls, as he would have done to defend the consumer. The French have a law that defines what a French restaurant is. At last we have it too: it will be written in the law, there is a small budget available for the next three years and the epicenter will be the National Conference of Italian catering in the world (general states of catering), which will be held in Italy or abroad once a year. For this reason, too, we are particularly pleased to give confidence to the maneuver under consideration. I would like to dedicate this victory to a much more emeritus colleague who has walked this floor for many years, dedicating his life to the cause of Italians in the world, who over twenty years ago proposed this very measure. We finally did it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u14	Senator Zanda is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u15	Mr President, the vote of the Senators of the Democratic Party on the draft budget law of 2021 will be a political vote of renewed confidence in the Government and together of responsibilities, to prevent the country's provisional exercise. The draft budget law has been examined and approved by the House of Deputies, while the Senate has concentrated its intervention in the space reduced by a few hours. On this anomaly we must be able to reflect with serenity. It makes no sense to be the object of propaganda, as oppositions are always tempted to do, but it would not be reasonable to remove an objective vulnus that we cannot, nor should we consider an ordinary moment in the life of the institutions. To approve the budget law in such a short time, without any possibility of handing it over, is a serious anomaly. We all know to what extent the virus and the pandemic are affecting Parliament's activity, making it possible for singular procedures which, in other circumstances, would not be considered correct. But, as Senator Gallicchio reminded us just now, the times that have contracted the examination process of the draft budget law are due to the extraordinary nature of the health crisis. The same distribution of senators, divided between the House and the tribunals, is a fact that affects our debates and confirms the extraordinary situation plastically. They are all alarm bells, warnings of a long illness of the institutions that it would be dangerous to neglect again. The very serious crisis we are experiencing tells us that Italy suffers from weaknesses more important than those of nations similar to us and equally affected by the virus. Our most serious weakness is the fragility of the state, the reduced efficiency of the public machinery, the inadequacy of the regulatory framework and the weakness of the political system. At the top of the state crisis is the progressive ageing of a system that, without success, we have tried several times to update to the needs of the times. And it is in this land of no one, between reforms never made and the pressure of events, that for a few decades Italy has been proceeding with pragmatic solutions, operating in practice with changes, even profound ones, to its order. Changing the bicameralism of equality, strengthening, in a bipolar vision, the stability of the Government and the system of guarantees can help Italy to be freer, stronger, more prosperous; but to obtain a new balance between the powers of the State in fact, operating in practice and not through constitutional procedures, exposes to substantial risks our democracy because we do not know how these precedents can be used in the future. [[Applause]] In recent decades, both the right and the left have largely tolerated the practice that has made the government the first holder of legislative power. And, again in practice, Parliament is no longer at the centre of our system, and also in practice the President of the Council is no longer a prime parer, but he has gradually become a real head of government. If this process has gone so far, Parliament also has its responsibilities for failing to defend its prerogatives. The alternating monocameralism that we are consuming on the budget law is the replica of a practice put in place by other governments of different political colors, all driven by emergencies that seemed incompatible with the long times of parliamentary work. Soon the Senators of the Democratic Party will vote in favour of the approval of the budget law, and for all of us it is worth the duty of national loyalty, in the sense that we cannot screw up the state accounts for a formal tangle. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u16	Colleagues, I would also like to ask for some attention because I believe that the intervention deserves it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u17	ZANDA (PD). In the slow decline of our system, however, we must prevent what is linked to a serious and long-term emergency from being used as a precedent. The Constitution wants the two chambers to participate equally not only in the final adoption of legislative acts, but also in their drafting in the Commission and in the House, and violating this principle is a vulnus that cannot be repeated. Similarly, the exceptional procedures in which the decree-law on so-called "restorations" has been approved cannot be applied as a precedent. In that measure, in addition to the critical notes of all the major amendments, the contents of four decree-laws were inserted through their transformation into amendments to the final text. We do not know how doctrine and jurisprudence will classify this innovation, but every decree-law is a separate measure, based on its own specific requirements of necessity and urgency. Putting them together in a single law of conversion is a bold force, certainly risky for the previous one that can determine. The major crises can not only lead to the objective need for exceptional measures, but, if addressed responsibly, they can stimulate deep reforms, major changes and new impulses to growth and development. Days ago it was remembered that the public debt can be good, if directed towards productive expenses, but it can be bad, if wasted in search of consent. The same fate may come to the modernising reforms that we are in great need of, but which, like debt, can be good or not good reforms: the reforms approved by Parliament according to the rules of the Constitution are good; the reforms adopted in practice, emergency after emergency, are fragile and risky, in an inclined plan of which it is difficult to see the final outcome. For Italians these are difficult times, of great uncertainty and great concern for the future. We are suspended between fear of the virus and the lack of safe information about work and the economy and we all, especially us parliamentarians, each for its part, have the duty to help Italy to understand where we are going and where we are taking all the measures that the Government and Parliament are taking. The exit from the crisis will not be rapid and the great work of relaunching will not end in the short time that we have left in this legislature. In perspective, the long time of the health crisis and its economic and social consequences require us to ensure, beyond the succession of governments and legislators, continuity to the basic lines of the state's action. For a country in difficulty, as Italy is today, one of the key words is continuity, continuity of the great choices of the State. A positive exit from the crisis is therefore in the interest, both of the majority that today governs, and of the opposition that could govern tomorrow. Together we will have to do everything we can not to waste the talents that offers us a difficult conjuncture that, in addition to the great pain for the many deaths we have had, also brings us an opportunity of recovery and change. We know that Italy needs good debt and good reforms. On these two objectives, let us not split up and reserve the political struggle for anything else. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u18	Senator Ronzulli is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we remain politically correct, we should say - as many Members have done so far - that we are debating the budget law today. Today we are not discussing anything at all: we are called to ratify decisions taken elsewhere, to put a seal on a package that we have not even been able to open. [[Applause]] At the centre-right, the country's first political force, in this branch of Parliament today is prevented from making a contribution through its representatives. It is a clear violation of Article 72 of the Constitution, as Senator Zanda mentioned earlier, which I thank. [[Applause.]] [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u20	Please, colleagues. Senator Renzi, please.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u21	RONZULLI (FIBP-UDC). It's still him, it's still Renzi. As I was saying, I wanted to thank Senator Zanda for the intellectual honesty he has shown, but at this point they will have the consequences. [[Applause]] There's no alibi. For months the government has been working on this manoeuvre, presented - let us remember - thirty-five days late. The opposition Democratic Party even denounced to the Constitutional Court the compression of the times two years ago in this House. Double reading serves not to protect oppositions, but to improve the quality of legislation, even by correcting errors. And here many mistakes have been made, as evidenced by the fact - it has no precedent - that today you vote a budget law with the hole: on the other hand, not all doughnuts succeed with the hole, even if the hole is not a few tens of thousands of euros, but it is 1.5 billion. You have forgotten thousands of employees who earn between 28,000 and 40,000 euros, to whom you promised a bonus without having first found the money. Vote a law full of errors, which forces you to intervene in the last hours of the year with a new decree, a buffer decree: a speed and an organization that, unfortunately, we have not seen with the swabs that were needed in recent months to trace the contagions. [[Applause]] You weren't even able to do the math, so we're gonna give you a bullet. More than a linear legislative path, build a matrioska, with one law inside the other but, when you get to the last doll, there is nothing. We are at 37th trust. We are practically voting on one for every measure. But this is probably the government's strategy: to expel Parliament from its powers, empty it of its prerogatives and humiliate the Chambers. [[Applause]] This law should have laid the foundations for the recovery of our economy, but continue with bonus policy. Vote a law that is a symbol of a political majority, which no longer exists. Your divisions, your search for armchairs, your chess matches, your power wars, your leadership battles hold the Italians hostage, already on their knees for the pandemic [[Applause]] And you even reported the word "mash" in the dictionary of the second Republic. One cannot be at the same time of struggle and government, or rather: one cannot be of struggle and government in the year of the pandemic, while the Italians die of coronavirus and risk dying of hunger. One cannot be of struggle and government while the shops close and create the rows at Caritas and the canteens of the poor. [[Applause]] It is convenient to be in the government and play counter-song every day, but those who are in the government must give solutions, if they are able to do so, otherwise leave the pace to those who are capable. The recovery plan is also in chaos and even Minister Gualtieri himself admitted that, continuing this way, we risk losing the recovery money. Other than Hello: this recovery plan will be a "hello". [[Applause]] With an amputated democracy, between DPCM and a state of emergency, with the worst GDP in Europe, with the deficit skyrocketing and constantly growing, the Conte Government continues to make runways in favor of camera, for evening news, and forgets the real country. Even this morning, as we discuss the most important law of the year, the President of the Council, instead of being here, in the house of the Italians, is preparing a press conference to make his New Year's Show [[Applause]] , showing Parliament's total contempt. So we invite him to postpone his show to 3:00 p.m., to come here immediately, to Parliament. [[Applause]] We could have created a competitive Italy and instead you watered a desert, created by closures decided against logic, following the jungle of the Ateco codes and algorithms. When you have the desert, you can water it as much as you want with assistantism, but nothing will grow anymore. You had a historic opportunity, it could have been the season of great reformism, involving first of all the private ones, who instead are completely absent, because for you the private is to be opposed regardless. [[Applause]] You have financed with EUR 4 billion the failed measure of citizenship income and have allocated only half a billion euros for active labour policies. Think of managing the country with tips and tips: this is the difference between us and you. You think you can go on giving candy: instead we want to create the candy factory, because in this way you generate wealth, you create employment, you reinvest the profits, you increase GDP and you can make the country take off. And if it weren't for the center-right, you would have demanded the payment of taxes even from those self-employed and from those VAT matches that you put on your knees and under the conditions of not working. The fiscal white year was the minimum trade union, but it is not your result: it is a success of the center right. [[Applause]] The economy dies, unfortunately Italians still die. Israel has vaccinated half a million people in ten days and in Italy Commissioner Arcuri boasts of just 8,361 vaccines carried out: a nothing. This morning we read of a fantastic plan B: call it directly plan F, as failure. [[Applause]] And in total disorder, part of the majority armed the keyboards of the fanatics, like the no vax, and even a brave girl like Claudia, the first to be vaccinated, instead of being applauded and looked at as an example of courage, is attacked and threatened. [[Applause]] Your mistakes are the mirror of sloppiness: we do not forgive them, because they are children of arrogance and superficiality. Your ephemeral confidence in this House is matched by the distrust of the Italians and we look forward to you having the courage to certify it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u22	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we are facing yet another vote of confidence put forward by this Government. We can only criticise the procedures by which Parliament's legislative power is being exonerated: continuing decree-laws and votes of confidence are now the rule. To these extraordinary procedures have been added the DPCM of President Conte, often unjustified and inappropriate. The maneuver was brought to the attention of the Chamber of Deputies thirty-five days late - as many colleagues have mentioned - and to the Senate on 28 December. Deputy Minister Misiani has confirmed that the budget law we are about to ratify is wrong and will have to be corrected. These procedures, these abuses, these inefficiencies are already sufficient to be able to express a negative opinion on the work of this Government. What worries us most, however, is not the method by which it governs, but it is the content of your provisions. [[Applause]] We don't like it and don't convince us how you dealt with the health emergency in our country. We do not like it and do not convince us how you faced the reopening of schools in September. We do not like it and do not convince us how you have dealt with the management of local public transport. We don't like it and don't convince us how you handled the restorative decrees. And, above all, Mr President, we do not like the economic policy of this Government. But do you really think that with bonuses, subsidies, income from citizenship and emergency, with click-day and cashback you will be able to raise the fortunes of our economy? Will you be able to save the work of hundreds of thousands of self-employed, artisans, traders and small entrepreneurs who are paying the highest price of this crisis? Are you really so reckless and far from reality? Turn our streets, talk to the citizens and confront the categories; the economic situation is dramatic and the social situation is explosive. Parliament has authorised maneuvers in debt of more than 100 billion in a few months. You are handling this opportunity badly, very badly; you are wasting it, because your basic mentality is wrong. The 5 Star Movimento lives in its world of happy degrowth and of entire people who should live on citizenship subsidies and income: a madness that economically does not hold and that would lead us to disaster. [[Applause]] The PD and LEU carry on the usual theory of unsustainable tax collection and then operate a redistribution of income with bonuses. But you do not pay back wealth: pay back poverty and misery. [[Applause]] The mountain of additional public debt that Parliament has authorised should have been directed not to bonuses and subsidies, but to the reduction of the tax burden on labour and activities that are struggling to survive. The money best spent by an efficient state is the money left in the pockets of citizens. [[Applause]] You have to move freely. It's crazy to take it away from citizens with a thousand tax obligations and then redistribute it with bonuses. This model does not stand: it is stupid, ineffective and produces complex and expensive bureaucratic requirements. You are burying the country under a mountain of public debt, throwing tens and tens of billions into the wind. Your measures are not effective and this is demonstrated by the data: tourism is on its knees, business closes its doors to thousands, self-employed people cannot work. We want these activities to survive and the only way is to exempt them from paying taxes that they are not able to pay. And they can't pay them not because they're scumbags or evaders, as you love to paint them on the left, but because the State (the Government) has shut down their activities. [[Applause]] Be very careful, because they are the ones who keep up the state coffers. The more activities you fail, the lower the revenue, the smaller the resources available to the State to finance public salaries and services to citizens, the greater the damaged credits and resources you will have to allocate to restore banks; you are playing with fire. What happens then when you unlock the layoffs? Sooner or later we'll get to that date. What will happen when you no longer have the chance to finance the integration fund, because you will no longer have resources? What will you do when fathers no longer have an income, an activity, a job to pay rent and support their families? What will you do when tens of thousands of billing folders rain on citizens' heads? You're just postponing them and the mountain is rising. What will you do when they tell you in Brussels that we will no longer be able to do any more debt and ask you to return what you have been granted? That date will come sooner or later. Ristorian decrees and this budget maneuver, which are inflamed by hundreds of micro-sectoral and localistic measures, are a real shame. [[Applause]] I am, above all, in this dramatic phase that we are experiencing. Every single penny had to be used with great care and respect for Italians. You didn't and I don't know if you'll regret it, but the whole country will certainly pay for it. We insisted that the restorative decrees be based not on the Ateco codes, but on the decrease in turnover of all categories of autonomouss. You have not listened to us; you have given misery to few and nothing to most categories. We have tried every measure to offer you our cooperation; you have hardly ever listened to us. However, we are proud to have obtained the total exemption in 2021 of fixed contributions for the self-employed and professionals who have suffered a decrease in turnover of more than 33% and have had an income of no more than 50 000 euros (amendment Garavaglia to the budget law). [[Applause]] We are proud to have cancelled the VAT obligation for volunteering (amendment Garavaglia to the budget law). [[Applause]] We are proud to have obtained the reduction of the system charges in commercial electrical utilities for the activities that have not been able to work (amendment Arrigoni, Romeo and the center-right to the decree ristori). [[Applause]] We are proud of all those amendments which aimed at reducing the tax burden, but we are aware that much more had to be done. Much more is needed for our economic and productive system to recover. You are not showing up to this task; we have a duty to continue to insist on changing course, we have a duty to make ourselves ready when it comes to our responsibility to govern. And we will be. Let's just hope we don't get there too late when this country and our economy are left with nothing but rubble. This budget law represents yet another missed opportunity; it is not adapted to the dramatic moments we are experiencing. Our country deserves better and this government doesn't deserve our trust. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u24	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lanzi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u25	Mr President, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues, the previous speaker has said a lot of inaccuracies, and I will try to discuss his speech on time. The decree relaunches, the decree liquidity, the decree August, the decree restori... [[Comments. You hear whistles.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u26	I think the whistle is way out of line.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u27	Please continue, Senator Lanzi. LANZI (M5S). In all these measures there have been fundamental norms to help Italian companies and entrepreneurs have been helped to overcome this long time of difficult crisis. I have to say that there is a substantial difference between these four measures that I mentioned and the budget law. With this text that we are about to vote we begin to outline the future development of Italian companies. Certainly, state economic support during the crisis is important to avoid the difficulties as much as possible, but it is also necessary to work with a medium to long-term perspective and we are talking about this today. All the rules in this text, which refer precisely to companies, are designed for the Italian industry of the future. You will never find, in a measure of this Government, something that does not, however, have a look, even in part, towards the planning of the industrial fabric of tomorrow. When I talk about industrial fabric, I am not just talking about entrepreneurs and their companies; here we are talking about workers, new professions, incentives for a greener and more technologically advanced industry. Once the saying "put the church in the center of the village" was used. Today we put the enterprise at the center of the country system. We are doing this with incisive reforms, which will enable industry to transform to meet the needs of the coming decades. We have introduced tax credits for investments in tangible and intangible assets and in agile work, incentives for research and development, for technological innovation, for investments in green energy, digital and design. All tax credits that will be accrued will be durable. They are valid for two abundant years, until June 2022. At the same time, we maintain an extremely high firepower to ensure the liquidity of Italian companies, extending until June 2021 the public guarantee of the SME fund on loans to companies. This extension is in addition to the more than 100 billion already lent to date. I do not want to go too far, because the rules are really many and articulated, covering innumerable needs of Italian companies, but I want to stress that the blocking of redundancies and the integration fund has been extended once again. If, on the one hand, we support the relaunch of the company, however, we do not want anyone to remain behind leaving their workers at home. Let me quote another rule in this text, which I have been working on for months and which I myself have tabled several times since the relaunch decree. Italy has a great resource, which is water. How many times have we read or heard that water is life. Italy is a green and lush country, which makes water one of the main resources also for renewable energy, so much so that much of the energy is produced by large hydroelectric power plants. It happens, however, that certain press, faced with more innovative norms and - I must say - waited too long, divides itself to try to ridicule, as often does, the work of the Government. In this measure an amendment was inserted to the Chamber, which introduces a tax deduction for those who install bathtubs and taps, just to meet the need for water saving. Here, what I want to stress today is the faction of a political reading of this rule, which must be distorted what is its real purpose. Don't touch that rule. Italy is one of the countries where you invest more for the strengthening of the water network because of its problems of dispersion. According to Istat data, about 37 percent of the water injected into the network is dispersed. In some Italian provinces, you even reach 60%. In addition to this, Italians, with their daily attitude in the use of domestic water, contribute to further dispersing valuable water resources. That is why I believe that a rule that encourages the purchase of taps that will save even 50% of domestic water, which would otherwise be dispersed, is welcome. You will tell me that 20 million to finance this rule are few; meanwhile, it is essential to have included it for its intrinsic goodness. Obviously we will work to increase the funds and ensure that thousands of Italians can reduce their waste. Saving water and finding yourself with the latest generation of sanitary fixtures and taps does not seem to me a situation on which to ironize. Is it little? In the meantime, let's go. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that everyone will realize the commitments that the country has to face and that we will be reduced in the role of the citizen who is in difficulty without the need for protagonism and distinction that they have no reason to exist. Let's think about the citizens, they sent us here for this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u28	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u31	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, this time too, I must begin by reminding you that a branch of Parliament is in a humiliating situation and that it is a condition of having to adopt a text on which it has not been able to intervene at all. This practice of lame bicameralism was present even before the health emergency; just go with memory to the last two budget laws. However, the fact that all political forces, once in government, use certain methods, is not a good justification and will not be until the Constitution is changed. Until that day there will be a system based on two Chambers that have equal functions and prerogatives and every forcing in this sense is a forcing compared to the proper democratic functioning. Having said that, Mr President, the text we have read must be written down in the course of March to deal with the economic emergency. Another EUR 40 billion in the production circuit and for families, to which, as we know, a further budgetary deviation will soon follow to compensate for the categories suffering from restrictions and restrictions. My thoughts go here to skiing and the mountain, on which precisely these days we are discussing what will happen after 7 January. To the institutional partners and to the Technical and Scientific Committee (CTS) we ask one thing above all: certain answers and in a short time, not as the last time, that when the Regions had to wait almost a month to obtain answers from the CTS. The mountain requires programming and you can not change the cards on the table always at the last minute. Skiing and winter mountain tourism are not only entertainment, but an industry with a very deep supply chain that employs hundreds of thousands of people and it is incredible that this industry is not considered by the Government. Unfortunately, at the moment, I see only uncertainties in this regard; uncertainties about openings and refreshments. This, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and the Government, is quite unacceptable. Returning to the measure, the feeling is that a strong theme is missing, a reference investment around which to rotate everything else. More than a budget law with objectives set out in a strategic vision, it appears, as I said before, a new stage in the path of support characterized by a breakdown of resources to finance a perhaps excessive amount of interventions. It is also obvious that in the face of such a large number of interventions there are positive ones, even if there is more than one doubt about the effectiveness and the establishment of the law. I am referring in particular to measures for self-employed workers, the category perhaps least achieved by the effort of these months, with the first social shock absorbers and the prospect of a year without fiscal obligations for those who have marked significant decreases in turnover. The strengthening of the 110% superbonus is also good, provided that it is also reflected on how to access it because the bureaucratic commitment to draw on this tax benefit is really very burdensome, as practically all operators in the sector denounce. The whole package of measures aimed at strengthening the purchasing power of households, from the confirmation of the cut of the tax wedge to the birth grant, as well as the tax benefits for hiring. In this law there are also measures that closely affect the autonomy and my Autonomous Province of Bolzano. I am referring to the rule on linguistic requirements for the exercise of health professions in the provincial territory, which - it should be remembered - was born to adapt Italy to European directives, and will allow our Province to cope more effectively with the chronic shortage of personnel. I am also thinking of the resources allocated to the development of the works related to the Winter Olympics of 2026, as well as the rule of implementation of the agreement of 5 November 2020 between the Government, Regions under special statute and Autonomous Provinces, with the reduction of 100 million euros of the contribution to public finance due from the Regions under special statute and autonomous Provinces, as compensation for the loss of revenue due to the pandemic emergency. It is a small signal from the government to the autonomy, but much more efforts are still needed. On these points, in particular on the rule of the medical professions, we would like to thank the Government and the majority for their attention. The compromise reached is proof of a good dialogue, which we hope will continue on other issues as well, starting with a greater financial commitment in the recovery plan for the mountain. In conclusion, we leave behind a very difficult year in which the government made an important effort. However, that effort may not be sufficient in 2021. We need to strengthen the instruments for those sectors where the mortality of companies can be devastating, as Confesercenti recalled with his latest study. We need to rethink the relationship with the tax authorities quickly and then move forward with the commitment for a white year for VAT consignments or for a new balance and withdraw to close the suspended situations. We need to improve the decision-making chain on reopenings and restrictions, because times, not only in the mountains, are an essential element. Finally, but not least, we must do quickly and do well on the recovery fund, on which we play the destiny of the country, of future generations, but also the future of Europe: if Italy fails, it will be a formidable argument for the rigorists and for those who are against a united Europe. In short, in 2021 we do even more, and above all we do it better. It is with this wish that I declare the Group's vote in favour of the Budget Act. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u34	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mrs Ministro, ladies and gentlemen, 2020 gives us an international framework in which we can recognise two winners and two losers. He won science: thank you, science. In fact, if there had not been a huge investment in pharmaceuticals, health care and medicine, we would still be without a prospect of hope against coronavirus today. Obviously, the road is still long, but the fact that there is a vaccine in a record time is a historical fact. I like to think that in the vaccine race made all over the world they arrived first - not because it was a competition, but because it was an epochal challenge - of Turkish spouses established in Germany: Ugur and Ozlem, these are the names of baptism. It is the story of a great country that welcomes quality immigration and makes it an instrument of competitiveness. The same thing happened in Silicon Valley. For me, the same thing will have to happen over the next ten years in Italy: for this reason we insist on some measures to be included in the Next generation EU. We need to make this country the place of human capital, as Germany, which today has the quintuplo of Italian vaccinees, has done. There is a need to bet on new forms of relationship between science, research, culture, human capital and education: this is the starting point of the Next generation EU, not an Justice Page. On the other hand, thank you Europe. They no longer feel - in this House, at least - the No-vax, yet they felt; and they are no longer as strong as before the sovereign rhetoric. Why? Because sovereignist rhetoric was based on an inertia of Europe, which has been objectively in the past years, and which has not been there today, because Europe has put an incredible amount of resources, which goes beyond our best expectations: Next generation EU, European Central Bank (ECB), the SURE programme, the ESM (with 36 billion euros on health that could change the history of our country's health care) and of course traditional programming. Now, the question is that we have to spend this money well, with regard to two aspects: the first is that relating to the forms of democracy, the second is that relating to the vision of the country. On the forms of democracy, Mr President - you have recognised this too and I thank you for that - today we have heard definitive words for me of a colleague, with whom there have been no lack of elements of divergence, which responds to the name of Senator Luigi Zanda. Those who were not in the Chamber, please read Senator Zanda's speech. Who does not believe what we have been saying for months, because we are those who are labeled irresponsible and Pierini, do not listen to us, but listen to Senator Zanda. From respect for democratic forms comes a credibility of the institutions which, at the moment, risks being put to the test. [[Applause]] If the yellow-green government makes the budget law in 48 hours to the Senate, we go to the Constitutional Court, as colleagues of the PD did in 2018. If the yellow-red government does that, will they shut up? That's not possible. We need to respect the rules regardless of who says a principle that I would share in practice, because if there is one in this House who is in favour of overcoming bicameralism, it is me, but because we have not succeeded, alas, we must respect bicameralism today, because if we pass the principle that constitutional reforms are not needed and just a practice, we are destroying this House, we are destroying our credibility, we and you together. [[Applause]] That is why respect for democratic forms is important, and that is why, Mr President, we will not stop demanding that there be respect for forms at all institutional levels, from intelligence, from secret services, to issues related to the way in which a budget law is made. [[Applause]] It is not us that we are talking about, but about our credibility and your credibility. On the other hand, we must speed up. Today I read the words of the Minister of Economy, who will receive a delegation from Italy Viva at 2 p.m., who is not here with us but will surely follow us from home. Mr President, the idea of speeding up is a wonderful one. Who like you, more than me, loves futurism knows that acceleration and speed are an extraordinary myth. I am one of those who asked for Commissioners, who asked to unblock the works, let alone if I am against speeding up. On 22 July in this House I asked for a session in August on the Next Generation EU, today I find that we are late and we have to run. Good. On running we all agree, but my question is: to go where? Because if you run in the opposite direction to the correct one, it takes twice as long to go back. The question to ask is whether this debt, good or bad depending on the choices we make - words with the copyright of Mario Draghi - do we want to face it or not? Stay with the record, President, that this window that opens is not a random window, but it is a window that has not been there for thirty years. Nobody could spend this money, okay? There are mayors on all sides, right and left, there are Presidents of the Region, there are local administrators: we never had the opportunity to spend this money, we were blocked by the Stability Pact, by the blocks - we all know - on the right and on the left. For the next 30 years there will be no chance of spending this money. The time window is now or never, because then at some point the doors of Europe will close. If we are in a position to agree that this money must be spent on culture, infrastructure, the environment and opportunities, we are credible, but if we affirm the principle that a parliamentary group, a political force cannot ask for an account of how this money is spent, because otherwise it disturbs the maneuver, we are transforming Parliament into a place of squabbling, but - be careful - we are not giving stability. Let me tell my colleagues in the majority. To those who come to tell us that we are irresponsible because we are questioning stability I would point out that I myself is a person who at least in three passages in the last parliamentary term and in one in this Parliament worked to continue the experience of the legislature, even sometimes against the interest of his Group in the last parliamentary term, because he believes that stability is a value. But there is an epochal difference between stability and immobilism. A legislature stands like a bicycle: the balance finds it if it moves, if it manages to have a vision and a horizon. If we get into a stalemate, immobilism is exactly what puts an early end to the life of a legislature. Mr President, that is why we have asked for clarity on where money will go and which will never come back. Mr President, we have said things that no one said. Today they are shared heritage because all political forces are running their projects. Twenty days ago we were labeled irresponsible; we were just telling the truth. A great statesman of this country in the most difficult hours of his life had the opportunity to write: When you tell the truth, you shouldn't feel sorry for telling it. The truth is always enlightening. It helps us to be brave. They were the words of Aldo Moro at the most difficult moment of his existence, but they are the words that should inspire all of us. [[Applause]] These are the words that we deliver to the government in the last speech of this 2020 that has seen us say yes firmly for institutional loyalty. We will say yes today, but we give the Government the responsibility to decide what to do when we grow up, because we have been partners in this complicated transition; we are ready to work together if there is a vision and a horizon based on the things we have said, the idea of Italy in thirty years, a path that allows us to spend the money well, to have that good debt of Draghi. We will never be complicit in the greatest waste of money we can have in republican history. [[Applause]] If we want to move forward, we move forward on a project. The ball passes to the government and no longer to us because we only told the truth. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u35	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u36	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u37	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to begin my speech on behalf of the Brothers of Italy Group by saying some important things about the form in which the budgetary manoeuvre came to this House, which leaves us very untapped and perplexed. The first reference is to what happened: the maneuver arrives in the Chamber without a rapporteur. On this I would like to make a first reflection because not later than a month ago this same majority and the Government, after the intervention of the President of the Republic who asked for a greater confrontation in the committees and in the parliamentary classrooms, proposed to the minority to consider possibly for the economic measures and the budget law that there was the possibility of having a double rapporteur (one of majority and one of minority) to have a confrontation and avoid that short circuit that is now there since this Government has been insidious. The plastic answer today is that we are even here without having had the opportunity to discuss the budgetary manoeuvre in the Commission - which, I would like to remind you, is the most important act of a legislature - and even without having a rapporteur in this House who could give us some information on the subject of budgetary manoeuvre. In the same way, I would also like to say to the President of the Budget Commission that he will end these sermons which he makes to us every time before he comes to the House saying that this will be the last time there will be this type of problem, this type of short circuit in the parliamentary classrooms. President, this is an indecent way to proceed at such a delicate moment in the life of the country. This indecency is linked, as is constantly the case in this last year, to this established practice for which only one Chamber is placed in a position to work on the measures, while the other, as in this case today the Senate, is excluded from any decision, because it is practically not aware of anything. On this Brothers of Italy he continues to appeal to President Alberti Casellati to restore the full democratic viability of this Assembly. Then there is another reason for indecency that we find in relation to this Government. In this regard, I would also like to recall the lack of presence of Mr Gualtieri, who would at least have had the opportunity to be in the Chamber listening to the senators in order to know what they said about this maneuver, while we find the almost complete absence of the Government. The indecency that I was referring to today is to face a budgetary maneuver, while on the other hand the Government is in other business, that is the political theater that sees the opposition of Prime Minister Conte and former Prime Minister Renzi, who do not agree on anything. As we heard a few minutes ago when Senator Renzi intervened before me, they do not agree on anything except the power that must be managed with respect to the river of money that is coming to Italy with the recovery fund, i.e. the 209 billion that must affect the Italian people. Instead there is a sort of division of these resources and armchairs on which you still do not find any kind of square. This is proving to be an ally of yours: your Renzi, who actually shouts more than any other leader of this majority, has just said it in plain words, but who is also the most insignificant of all of you, because - as they say - he barks at the moon, because never and never will he be able to make this Government fall considering its irrelevance in the national context of the political force that it represents today in this House. All this happens while in the country there is a dramatic situation and we are faced with events that are epochal. I am referring in particular to the fact that we are now close to one of the largest vaccination campaigns in republican history, probably within the most important economic crisis since the post-war period. Instead, at a time like this, we are witnessing a spectacle of power war, a division of armchairs within this group of government. At this moment unfortunately the accounts of the draft budget law are dramatically conditioned by the fratricidal wars within the government and the current majority. They do not even come back, because even before the adoption of the budget maneuver, Mr Gualtieri is already talking about corrective measures which must amend a bill that has not even been approved yet. That is the point of your mistakes and everyone is in this budget maneuver. Expected that the state of emergency has been standing for almost a year now, we would have expected a completely different attitude from this majority. We are, therefore, to approve an economic maneuver that formally follows all the decree-laws that have followed each other, therefore the care Italy, the decree-law throws again, the decree-law liquidity, the decree-law August, the first, the second, the third and the fourth decree-laws ristori; they are all measures that have a polar star, that of the assistantism pushed together with the bonuses, of which in fact few felt the need. I've heard about the faucets bonus, at a dramatic moment in the country's life, the glasses bonus, the smartphone bonus; these are measures that in another historical comment we could have accepted, but right now I think that the Italians are more interested in their jobs. I think that the Italians at this moment are more interested in the economic and productive revival of the country system in order to ensure that the economy can really grow, reborn, restart, to give a hope of the future to our young people. We cannot accept this move, because we continue to finance a measure that is the most charitable that can exist, that is, the income of citizenship. Last year we committed to financing this measure over EUR 7 billion; this year we continue to commit more than EUR 4 billion. A serious government would put a hand on the conscience and take note of the failure of the measure. But you, unceasingly, continue to pretend nothing, paying with public resources the dealers, the mobsters and even the murderers. [[Applause]] We cannot allow you all this, because you of the majority do not have the sense of the state and in your political DNA you do not have the pride of a nation. The numbers of this maneuver show, unfortunately, that you are working without a perspective; as we use to say in jargon, work day after day, without a political vision. You don't know how to plan today, either tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. Dear Minister Gualtieri, instead of saying goodbye, listen to the speeches we make. I want to remind you that the day after tomorrow, so in two days, 31 million debit cards are ready. We have said more and more in all languages to block the departure of these debitory folders, but from the government we have not had any response. Therefore, the hope is that you, through the so-called thousandprorogation decree, may in the next few days defer the deadline for sending these debitory folders. Today, in fact, Italians are not in a position to pay these amounts, also because we are talking about fiscal peace and a further break-up. Differentiate the term for sending these folders, to allow - then - with more serenity to evaluate what the future scenarios may be. We have appreciated what our leader Giorgia Meloni and our party, together with the whole centre-right, have proposed through the presentation of some amendments which, in some way, have been taken into account by this majority and which relate, in particular, to the forecast of 800 euros per month, for six months, in favour of those who will be reduced in turnover and will therefore be able to enjoy a sort of integration fund. Similarly, we are pleased with the 110% bonus, although much more could be done, because it takes more time to breathe into the national economy. This further postponement to 31 December 2022 is not sufficient. The positive measures are therefore few and for all the rest the rejection against the maneuver is sound and complete. It is sound because, as some of my colleagues have said, we have entrusted you with 140 billion euros in just over six months to make sure that our country does not sink. You have squandered them and continue to do so, as evidenced by the additional tips and bonuses you continue to give even with this budget maneuver. The truth is that the country would need a different maneuver, but it would only have been possible if there were a different government in this country from what you represent today in everyday reality. We have clearly never hidden the gravity of the moment we are living, but at the same time, through all our proposals, we have tried to defend national interests. 10:54 a.m. (Followed by Mr Calandrini). The future of a country is never of a single political part or of a single majority, rather than of the opposition. The future belongs to everyone and only those who know how to build it with all the Italian people will remain impressed in the history of the nation. We have done our part, but we will never be complicit in your disasters. To give you our trust we would have needed to understand your political credibility which unfortunately, today as yesterday, never existed. For this reason, the vote of the Brothers of Italy Group will be against the budgetary manoeuvre. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u38	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u39	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u40	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the extraordinary nature of the process of approving this budget is clear to everyone and is in itself an objective problem. We cannot, however, forget the pandemic, the absolutely extraordinary situation in which we moved: at least four maneuvers in a year. And I would like to remind those who do not remember it well that, before the Covid, the first budget of this legislature was approved with a maxi amendment - the budget of 2.4%, then became 2.04 of the yellow-green government - voted on 23 December, at 2:37 p.m., then approved in the House on 30 December. I am not saying this to deny the problem we are facing, but I say - and I address my colleagues in the League - that it is not surprising to say that this is the first time. This isn't the first time. [[Applause.]] You did it first. [[Comments]] How? Third reading? No, I'm wired. Attention, the large amendment you tabled here - and there was no time to publish it - radically changed the budget approved by the House. [[Applause]] Guys, intellectual honesty for intellectual honesty. I didn't want to argue about this; instead, I wanted to make another argument. There is a problem that concerns the quality of democracy and the functioning of the institutions; it is undoubtedly, and it comes from afar. We must ask ourselves: this is a task for this House and for all the parliamentary forces. We must also reason because this pandemic poses profoundly new problems: political-science relationship; decision relationship, timing and functioning of the institutions. It is a subject on which we must work and no one can throw the first stone. I hope that a path will be built in order to be able to give innovative answers. The opposition also collaborated in the House. In this draft budget I would like to mention only three elements. There are some strategic choices: tax reform, for example, with a fund for 2021 and 2022 to implement the fundamental reform to introduce equity and justice. A reform that we can no longer postpone and which can be a real turning point. Again, the extension of the superbonus, but also actions at work. Are we still talking about welfare when we look for a way to protect the job? It's not just the Integration Fund. For the first time a form of integration fund for the self-employed has been introduced, and we have done so together, majority and opposition. Why ignore the steps forward? There is support for the liquidity of small and medium-sized enterprises, and with the decree-laws reistori quinques - we have already said - we will strategically address the relationship between ristors, contributions to companies and reduction of the tax burden, to give a strategic response and get out of the totally inadequate grip of the Ateco. There are important choices on culture and school. There is the fund for the Next Generation EU program, the billions of the Rotation Fund. I take advantage of the presence of the Minister of the Economy, whom I thank, to say that this is a very important fund, but this country must have the courage to make choices, first of all on industrial policy. Industry 4.0 and the additional resources for Industry 4.0 are fine, but do we want to decide what industrial policy and strategy are? [[Applause]] Do we want to invest in life sciences, biotechnology, nanotechnologies or do we have an umbrella policy? This is not statism, it is not statism to give itself strategic goals to make a qualitative leap in our economic and productive system in supply chains and in an integrated way. It is a fundamental theme for dealing with transformation. Our problem with the use of resources for me is above all this: we absolutely must be able to change the structure of the country's economic-productive system and all the resources we invest are destined for ecological transformation and change of the development model. That is our challenge; we do not need hundreds of projects. We need to focus resources on strategic and decisive issues, which I try to point out. There is certainly the issue of the Mezzogiorno, not already in a welfare key, but, wanting to talk about tourism, to strategically invest on a new production and economic chain such as tourism in a territory that has extraordinary natural resources. But then we must think of a platform for tourism so that foreign platforms do not do so. We do not need to invest 200 million euros to make small interventions at the incoming level. Everyone, once out of the pandemic, wants to come to Italy, just look at the data. The problem, Minister, is that we do not have a suitable accommodation: we do not have quality rooms and hotels, nor do we have networks capable of attacking the international market. That's what we have to invest in, not in small things. With regard to the controversy over the direction booth, I am absolutely against the current, and I have always indicated an objective since the beginning of the parliamentary term at all budgets. I say this clearly: made the right and strategic choices, which is the policy that has to be made and not the technicians, we will never be able to spend the resources, if we do not equip the public administration in extraordinary forms. [[Applause]] This applies to the centre and applies to municipalities and regions. We no longer have people who can make structural plans for urban planning, that's the problem; we don't have people who know how to race or run jobs. This is an extraordinary commitment. Call it whatever you want, in any way but, established that political choices make it policy, it is very important the technical structure, which does not decide, but assumes responsibility for the projects and the realization of the same. We are not talking about the Structural Funds when we are talking about Next Generation EU and therefore it is not possible to do the projects side by side. So, either we make these choices today, or tomorrow we'll cry crocodile tears. In conclusion, it is true that we must make a qualitative leap. However, I would like to say to Mr Renzi that a coalition is not a sum of parties and is not measured on the filings between my proposal, your proposal and another proposal. It takes the soul, it's true, but to give it to yourself you need to have an identity of the coalition, an idea of the country and a strategic vision. We therefore need fundamental choices, such as a new welfare system and health reform. We have spoken about drugs, to reduce and change the relationship between territorial drugs and hospital drugs, and now, Minister, we need to review the pharmaceutical prontuary. We can no longer pay the equivalent drugs ten times their value. We need to remove the constraints on recruitment, we need to reform, we need to change. This coalition makes sense if it does reform and I don't care who proposes it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Errani. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Yes, Mr. President. Renzi's proposing it? I am interested in the fact that this change is taking place and that is why we are going to vote in favour of the budget law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u41	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u42	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u43	MANCA (PD). Mr President, first of all, on behalf of the Democratic Party Group, I would like to reiterate our vote in favour, our support and our confidence in the Government. Ours is convinced of a budget law indispensable for the social maintenance of our country, necessary to support measures useful to families and businesses to overcome this pandemic crisis. It is a budget law that in our opinion has its own identity, aimed at managing the emerging phase, also preparing structural measures to remove important limits, which have a significant historicity in our country. The budget law therefore has an identity and has the political and cultural approach of a coalition that - we must not forget - assumes the responsibility of bringing Italy out of the crisis. We are here, today, in Parliament and we can recognise that there are new elements before us, with a fundamental and decisive role of science and research, which put us today in a position to see a light at the end of the tunnel - that is, the national vaccination plan, so important to face this challenge - and to recognize a new face of Europe, which guides us, supports us and transforms a dangerous sovereignist decline and a dangerous rigorist initiative, which had preceded us, in a new Europeanist face, able to allow our country to go through this crisis. These are two fundamental elements. I remember the beginning of this parliamentary term, when we applauded here an action against Europe which in many cases claimed an unnatural and inhumane role in the legal and security conditions of our country. I remember when sovereignism found a broad consensus here a few months ago. Today we can say that we are faced with a new Europeanism and a new ability of science to get us out of the tunnel of the pandemic and the Democratic Party recognizes the work and contribution that this majority and this Government have offered to bring Italy out of this crisis. [[Applause]] We must get used to it together, if we want to restore dignity to the political word, to frame the political phase we are going through, because this is a new political phase for the world and for Europe. I would be very cautious in pointing out rankings, limits, priorities and making comparisons with other European countries. I believe that together if we want to restore dignity to the political word, we must have the caution to wait for the exit from the pandemic. We will have all the time and the way to assess the mortality rates and the limits of our actions that we recognise, because within a pandemic there are clear limits of all governments in Europe. However, we must frame this political phase; I say this in full respect of the prerogatives of the oppositions. You know that is not the point; I have full respect for the prerogatives of opposition, but lessons in democracy are not acceptable or, worse still, comparisons between different years, because comparing the fiscal law of 2018 with the fiscal law of 2020 is misleading and instrumental. It is a regurgitation of sovereignism, already defeated both in the European and national dimensions. [[Applause]] If we are here today, if the Government and the majority have introduced complex and difficult actions to protect families and businesses, we must be aware that Italians have carried out unprecedented actions, with civil commitment, a high rate of morality and a high sense of the country and community in which they live, because the limitations and different measures introduced by the multiple decrees could lead to social conflicts. I believe that thanks to the government's initiatives on work and business we have been able to prevent and govern them. Even those who tried to caress the protest for reasons of consensus and propaganda did not find room. Much of this responsibility lies in the extent and capacity that we have had to protect work and when I talk about work, I talk about all work. We have also addressed new strategies on self-employment and VAT matches. It will not be complete yet, but we have introduced elements of universality in support of income, VAT and self-employment that were not in this country before and we were not even able to support and design. So, emergent choices have been made, but within this budget law there are also some fundamental measures to define the identity of a future vision of this country. We want to recognize all this. The Democratic Party wants to recognize all this, because it is our natural dress and lives in democracy, lives in the very identity of this challenge, lives in the responsibility that we are taking on and that we want to continue to assume to bring Italy out of the crisis. That is what Senator Zanda said and I very much agree, in the full call of the constitutional dictation: we must consider the parliamentary process that the various decrees-laws have adopted as an emergency. The strength and authority of politics is also the capacity of this Parliament to recognise an emerging condition and not to regard it as something natural. We have converted nine economic decrees-laws, equal to four or five budget maneuvers in a few months. Without bicameralism we probably wouldn't have succeeded; if we had to examine the different measures in one House, we wouldn't have had the conditions to convert such a significant amount of economic decrees-laws as the one that the Government introduced. We have to recognize him. [[Applause]] This is not a betrayal of the constitutional dictation; it would and would be if we consolidated an emerging phase in a natural phase. But this Parliament and politics must have the authority to return fully to democratic rules, as Senator Zanda has clearly pointed out brilliantly. But now we are in an emerging condition and we must recognize it among ourselves. I have heard the noise and noise of oppositions, which, when they do not have proposals, return to the rhetoric of fragmentation, the acquisition of banks, the conflict with immigration. We are in another season, it is another phase, there is a new face of Europe. Europe puts us in security, other than the acquisition of banks. Without the monetary policies of the European Central Bank, we would have had no condition to bring the spread back to 111, from 270 in March, and to manage a large debt such as the one consolidated in this year: 160 billion additional debt. The debt-to-GDP ratio has risen from 134 to 160 percent. Without the suspension of the Stability Pact and without European initiatives, this would not have been possible. Today we have this new responsibility before us. We recognize the limits, but we must also have a great ambition. We will have before us the greatest opportunity to plan our future; the new challenge of this majority today is to recognise these priorities. I would like to focus on three fundamental elements, which are partly sketched out in the budget law as well. We have introduced the universal child allowance: it is the first useful measure to re-launch the family and to remove discrimination between employees and self-employment. Above all, it is the first useful initiative to correct an unsustainable birth rate, which pushes us away from the most virtuous areas of the world. Making gender policies transversal means correcting structural limitations, because the female employment rate in this country cannot remain at these levels if we want to build an economic future for Italy. We must demand this. In front of us there are new challenges; there is a need for a vision. We don't need hundreds of projects. I want to start with one of them, which in my opinion is still neglected and which needs to be valued: I am talking about health care. If we are to say that the first economic measure is to guarantee our citizens the right to health and therefore must be to assure them and the generations that they will be protected against new pandemics, we must have an acceleration. I am not interested in discussing at the moment the amount of resources; I would like to discuss how we reconstruct the face of territorial medicine, how we secure the territories, how we are able to guarantee services to citizens. [[Applause]] Let us discuss this before, otherwise this does not make any sense in our relationship with our community. This also applies to digitisation and the ecological conversion of our economy. On these points we need an acceleration; the Democratic Party is aware of this, has its proposals and maintains its identity in the responsibility to bring Italy out of the crisis. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u44	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u45	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u46	BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Ministers and Vice-Ministers, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, I feel, at this moment, that I must dedicate our speech to the President of the Council, who is speaking at the same time with us. [[Applause]] He is, rightly, doing his press conference at the end of the year, in the right place at the right time. After all, who are we? We're just the Senate of the Republic! [[Applause]] And what are we doing important? We are only approving a budget law which we have not even been allowed to read! It is right that the President of the Council should be where he is. We made a mistake. We didn't ask for live television. Everyone knows: no cameras, no Conte! [[Applause.]] (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much appreciated the opposition speeches by my fellow Members Renzi and Errani. I don't think I can do the same. I don't think I can be so vehement. I don't think I can go that far. However, on behalf of my parliamentary group, I would like to say my own, not only on this budget law, but on the way in which this phase has been addressed. We are experiencing a very difficult phase to govern. We know that the issue of this pandemic phase is terrible. It is a terrible challenge, but it is a challenge that you have lost, for your arrogant pursuit of infallibility, for your inability to admit your mistakes and say that you have wrong, for your inability to see the real world. [[Applause]] But do you see those 390,000 businesses that are disappearing, which, in fact, have already disappeared? Those 390,000 businesses that turned off the lights forever? Do you see those 5 and a half million poor, but real poor, of whom 2 million poor by Covid-19? [[Applause]] Eight million people have seen their standard of living fall dramatically. And you know who I am? The artisans and traders, those VAT matches, those entrepreneurs, who have been asking you for a long time to be helped, but not with the DPCMs, with the General States, with the comitology and with the media shows. [[Applause]] No, you don't need this. You don't need your daily internal fights, which culminated in the New Year's Fight on the recovery plan and in your wonderful opposition interventions, which, I understand, will not hesitate to vote against the maneuver. Isn't that right? All of this, how can it serve a country in its wretched state? To a country that is really closing the lights of its factories? A country that's closing the shop door with the fear of never reopening it again? Behind those counters, inside those kitchens, there are lives, passions, families, stories. They are, with their creativity, with their sacrifice and with their ability to always rise, they are the only hope of raising Italy, if we help them. [[Applause]] We tried. We have forced the majority to approve a decontribution of VAT, a decontribution that is little. How little is the encouragement of transport; how little is the valorization of disability in peer schools; how little is the automotive; how little is what we have given to doctors and nurses, who deserve so much more; how little is what we have given to the Forces of Order. It is little and we apologize for you, for not having done more. Because you can't apologize. [[Applause]] You are not able to admit your mistakes and with one hand give one and with the other hand take ten. You have decontributed 3,500 euros for VAT consignments and from 1 January you start 31 million acts of the Revenue Agency [[Applause]] - files, surveys and notices - that will affect the productive heart of this country, those I told you before, those that keep Italy standing, because we do not keep Italy standing, it is they and we must represent and help them. This is our function, don't pretend not to see them, don't say that the formula Italy is the best in the world, don't say that it's all right, don't make useless self-celebrative press conferences while the country suffers. [[Applause]] All this doesn't do any good, it just makes fun of the country, and we don't want to do it. We believe what we have done, we are convinced that our country has a great opportunity, if we can tell the truth, if we can get the truth from you. For example, what will happen on January 7th? Will the schools reopen? [[Applause]] How much longer is it gonna be before you know it? Minister Hope speaks of 50% of the capacity, the same Minister Hope who said yesterday that everything was all right, that we would definitely have the vaccine AstraZeneca and would have been a triumph. [[Applause]] As Mrs Rivolta rightly said, it seems to be the Light Institute, propaganda communication. [[Applause]] There is a virtual world that is that of our tools and means of communication and there is a real world that is what the country knows very well. What's gonna happen? Will our restaurants, our exhibitors, our ski resorts be able to reopen? Those who have lost their stocks, those who have had to suffer the discomfort of uncertainty. Maybe for those who have never worked it's not a problem [[Applause]] , but uncertainty for an entrepreneur is the worst of evils. We cannot plan, we cannot know if we have to make contracts, if we have to ask suppliers for something, how to plan our future budgets; we cannot live with uncertainties. What's gonna happen? They're gonna reopen? Will they be closed? Look, we only have one recipe; we have to compensate the German, since you like Merkel so much. [[Applause]] We have to compensate the German: 75% to 90% of the average between fixed costs and no turnover and we have to make a white tax year. That's it. They can't pay taxes with the money they don't have. [[Applause]] We demand it. We demand it. And then I condone for those who can't. Yes, I'm sorry. I unload these words: fiscal year white and I forgive for those who don't make it. [[Applause]] This is the only way to raise the country. Otherwise those closed stores, those empty factories, those shutters down, they'll never get up again. Vaccines, magic word. Do we have a vaccination plan? [[Applause]] Beyond propaganda communication, the usual stuff we see on the news, why is all of Europe vaccinating as if there were no tomorrow and we do symbolic vaccinations? [[Applause]] What does symbolic mean? Why do our trucks stop in the snow and the others don't? [[Applause]] Why does Commissioner Arcuri think he can say that he does not want to answer this question? Comfortable. [[Applause]] And I don't want to come to work. Commissioner Arcuri will have to explain to us the meaning of his symbolism in the delays and in his very expensive syringes, which, moreover, seem absolutely useless. Gentlemen, this is no joke. Colleagues, every day that passes is a further sacrifice of human lives and we cannot afford it. [[Applause]] We are not the ones who have done the best of all; we are the ones who have paid the most, unfortunately, in terms of deaths by the number of inhabitants and the collapse of GDP, as you have all mentioned. We can't afford to pay again. Next generation EU, better known as recovery plan; you also noticed it, with your majority interventions bar opposition that are numbers to head, which are lot numbers the ones you put in this document. [[Applause.]] That's not possible. Even the Minister for Economic Affairs said so, Commissioner Gentiloni said so, everyone said so. Do you remember when I first said in this House that we were late? When we said that the recovery plan was behind the rest of Europe, the President of the Council replied: it is a fake news. Now the fake news is also released by Minister Gualtieri. [[Applause]] Congratulations, at least you're consistent, you all say the same thing. I tell you two things: the recovery plan is not the manna from heaven, it is not a bill of exchange that Italy presents at the discount and is paid ready cash: no, it is the proof of the nine of the ability to govern and to put to the ground a real system Country that represents the great, true energies that Italy can produce. [[Applause]] Either so or you die, or indeed our children and grandchildren die of misery, even if this may please some. Mr President, he wrote Oriana Fallaci that habit is the most infamous disease because it makes us accept any misfortune. Instead, we will never get used to you or your miserable recipes, because we will always fight for the things we believe in, and we believe in Italy and in Italians, and we strongly believe that Italy deserves a future that lives up to its extraordinary past. For all these reasons, we shall vote no, no and no to this shortsighted, useless, futile and late budgetary law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u47	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u48	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u49	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I will only take a brief step to point out that the open contempt that the President of the Council shows for the institutions does not surprise us, because he is close relative, for example, of the contempt he showed for culture when he spoke of artists that make us entertain, like a monarch, as a ruler of the Middle Ages. [[Applause]] Maybe he thinks we're jesters too, but let's forget it. The last time I took it a little wide; this time - I apologize - I will take it very wide and I will also be a little boring. I will tell you some figures, because it will also be necessary to put these figures to the record, and at the end of the year, which we reduced with the budget law, it seems to me an excellent symbolic opportunity to draw a line. I leave from June 28, 1914, when Gavrilo Princip murdered Archduke Francesco Ferdinando, with the consequences you will remember. I'll just tell you one detail: the Italian GDP that year took a dive of less 5.4%. It took ten years for the value of 1913 to be reached and recovered in 1923, after reaching a minimum of 115 billion in 1915. In ten years we recovered. Second bet. On 1 September 1939, Germany invaded Poland, pursuing in its own way - which in the meantime has changed in form, but not in substance, as we shall see - the objective of unification of the Continent, for its use and consumption. What happened next we all remember, and here too I'm limited to a detail. The Italian GDP in 1939 grew by 6.3%, but then things changed for obvious reasons, and it reached a minimum of 107 billion in 1945 (almost half). Again, however, it took ten years to reach and exceed the level of departure: in 1949 Italian GDP came 201 billion. And we're getting closer to today. In 2007 the financial crisis broke out in the United States, which then reached its acute phase, as we recall, on September 15, 2008, when Lehman Brothers brought books to court. In 2007, our GDP was 1,795 billion. Here, however, I must disappoint my progressive friends, those who at school, when the teacher explained Leopardi, were a little distracted: despite the magnificent fates and progressives, this time ten years were not enough to recover. In 2017 we were still 5 percent below the 2007 level, at 1,704 billion, and twelve years later, in 2019, last year - a year that, looked at with our eyes today, seems almost normal - we were still below 4%, at 1,726 billion. How long would it take, in 2019, to return to the pre-crisis level? At the average growth rate recorded by Italy between 1999 and 2019 of 0.45%, 2028, i.e. 21 years, would have been expected, more than twice as long as it took to recover at the war events of the 20th century, in order to reach and exceed the pre-crisis level of 1997. I'll cut to the chase. When someone here today gets nervous about the so-called mistakes of the past, about the austerity that - my lady - hurts growth so much, my feeling is that I don't know exactly what you're talking about. These figures illustrate this: European rules have doubled our recovery time and prolonged our crises, of any kind, from ten to twenty years. [[Applause]] Now you are here, inspired naturally by your ideologist - who, as I have already had the opportunity to tell you, is not Karl Marx, but Alberto Sordi - to tell us, "A me' has blocked my illness." It will be, but following your speech, the one that blocked us, the disease, is not the Covid, but, since 1997, the adoption of the Stability and Growth Pact, therefore another disease: European austerity, European economic governance, the European semester (yes, just the same that will have to manage the money of the recovery). How is this going to end? Now you are all forced to say what we said in 2012, namely that austerity is a mistake. My question is if you needed Covid to find out, so to suspend the rules. The answer is in the data I gave you and it is no. Those who wanted to see it could have seen it already: it was already clear that something was wrong. Now, however, let's think about the consequences of Covid, for the future. The latest forecasts of the Bank of Italy say that this year we will make less than 9 percent, a hole of 155 billion, that will bring us around 1,571 billion, that is, we will return to the values before the disease (because in 1998 the Italian GDP was more or less there, to 1,574 billion) and then there will be the rebound. Of course, the rebound had to be 6% and today the Bank of Italy shares it at 3.5, but only if there is no financial crisis, if world trade will resume, if, if and if. The only thing we have is the average growth we can do with these rules: 0.45 percent. At this annual growth rate we will have to wait until 2045 to review the level of GDP of 2007, i.e. 38 years (which are lost and are almost two generations). This is the most plausible scenario that awaits us. You will say that the rules are now suspended and we have a rain of billions, which is a great opportunity, so we must make it soon. Have you ever heard this exhortation? Let's think about the suspension. For the rules to be suspended, it was not enough that they harmed our country to the point of doubling the duration of its crisis, but something had to happen that besides us put in trouble the hegemony power, the same power that the rules, treaties and contracts apply them and disapply them as it pleases, in your indifference. You, meanwhile, have fed, with your "intellectual" and your media, an abject narrative, which blamed the Italian people for a failure that was nothing more than the loyal adherence to absurd rules of which today you must recognize absurdity. And how did the others settle down? Let me give you an example. When Germany, in June of this year, decided to proceed in compensation for the fixed costs of companies, it did not ask for permissions: the European authorization came later, in October, with the fourth amendment of the temporary aid framework, but meanwhile the German Government had acted. [[Applause]] We do not criticize him for this, you should do so, you who are so babbalious that you believe in the Europe of solidarity and you who continue to believe that the defence of national interest is despicable, because the good of all for you always justifies the evil of the parties, whether these are Greece or - worse still - your part, Italy. Let me give you another example. Have you read the annex to COM No 4192 of 2020, the Commission's decision establishing the European vaccination strategy? Article 7, heading "Requires not to negotiate separately" reads as follows: By signing this agreement, Member States confirm their participation in the procedure and agree not to launch national procedures to anticipate the purchase of vaccines from the same producers. To the eye, that is exactly what Germany has not done according to agreed sources of press. [[Applause]] : We are not wrong about this either; instead we are wrong about those who are changing Europe and who are showing great solidarity, without wanting to address the issue, which is not suspension, but the complete rethinking of the rules. It is all in this story of ordinary subalternity the reason why the Italians whom we honor to represent do not have confidence in you. It is for your refusal to confront the reality, for your inability to claim equal dignity for our country and for the open contempt you have shown towards them, towards the Italians. Instead of talking about billions that are not in large part - and that, if there are, they will still have to be returned, after being managed according to the rules that have destroyed our economy - and growling like dogs around a bone to divide the loan that will come to you, letting companies close and then fail the companies that will have to repay it (which you well guard from saying), you should put here and in Europe the only urgent question that makes sense to ask yourself today: how to change European economic governance and what to do if this proves impossible. Such an operation of truth, however, is precluded for non-ethical but ethological reasons. You prefer to continue to live, to postpone: better a subsidy tomorrow than dignity today! That is the figure of your policy. [[Applause]] That is why the Group to which I honour to belong denies you today - and will deny it until you change your attitude - its trust. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u50	Senator Bagnai, I'm looking at an expression of yours with reference to a comparison between the situation in Germany and Poland, which I don't think is appropriate. [[Applause]] It's been reported to me and I'm checking the text. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u53	(M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and representatives of the Government, it has been a difficult year and in just under 48 hours it will be over. I could add "finally" or I could still look for something positive in a certainly complicated year for our country, for Europe and for the whole world. I prefer this second option, because only by analyzing what happened will we be able to work best to build tomorrow's Italy and I want to emphasise this especially for my colleagues in the opposition, who are always good at criticizing, but never to collaborate. [[Applause]] In these complex twelve months, including with regard to parliamentary work, I had the opportunity and the honour of being Head of the Movimento 5 Star Group in the Budget Committee. [[Comments]] . Replicas). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What's going on? [[Happy protests. Replica.]] Senator, keep talking. (M5S). It is an important role with many responsibilities. [[Brusio.]] Mr President, whistles are unbearable and are also genuinely annoying. [[Applause]] Let us remember to be in the Senate Chamber.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u54	Please, colleagues, let's get Senator Accoto to talk. There's no need to whistle. Everyone says what they want. Everyone has expressed their opinion and so will Senator Accoto. [[Live, repeat protests.]] Senator Santangelo, sit down! These gestures you make at your house. Don't you dare! You're rude! Do you understand? [[Applause]] I'm warning you. Go ahead, Senator Accomod.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u55	I was talking about an important role, with many responsibilities, in which I have given all of myself to offer the answers that all citizens expect in the measures that we dismiss as Parliament. [[Applause]] For this reason, the narrative of this draft budget law cannot be decontextualized by the work of an entire year and even more by the measures of these last months. I believe that this manoeuvre has not been sufficiently valued, however good it is, I would like to stress, perhaps because of the timing of its parliamentary process; framed as it was between emergency measures, it has not been recognized the innovativeness that it has in many of its interventions. It has a clear system, structured around four main pillars, to give a decisive boost to recovery: I am talking about health, school and digitalization, business and work, family and social policies. It is EUR 40 billion in addition to the over 100 already allocated during the year to cope with the unprecedented economic effort that has been supported since March. The maneuver acts, on the one hand, on the emerging front with measures such as the extension of the blockade of dismissals and of the Cassa Integrazione; measures that - let us remember - have allowed us to avoid about 600,000 layoffs. [[Applause]] We have also valued the extraordinary work of our doctors and nurses, with additional resources to pay the necessary allowances and, at the same time, to strengthen territorial assistance. Another fundamental element in this direction is the technological and digital adaptation of the structures and territorial garrisons of military health, which, with dedication and commitment, has made a great contribution in dealing with the emergency health, in order to avoid overloading our hospitals. [[Applause]] On the other hand, instead, everything has been focused on the innovation of the Country, in order to consolidate the resumption of the production that - it should be remembered - in the third quarter of the year has reached an increase of 16.1 percent compared to the estimated (plus 11.2 percent). All this thanks to ambitious measures, such as the National Transition Plan 4.0, the additional contributions planned for small and medium-sized enterprises and the 100% decontribution for those employing unemployed women in the South, as well as the unemployed for at least twenty-four months in the rest of Italy. But not only that. The 5 Star Movimento has always had at heart the future of the workers and their training. That is why we are devoting 500 million to active labour policies. [[Applause.]] In order to encourage recruitment and job creation, we believe that action is needed on the retraining of workers and on the overall reform of social shock absorbers. For this reason, with the full decontribution for the recruitment of young people under 35, we help the new generations to enter the world of work. It will be the State that will take charge until 2023 of the 100% payment of the total contributions that a company must bear when deciding to hire a worker. [[Applause]] Finally, let me also stress how we fought for the extension of the superbonus to 110%. This facility was strongly desired by the Movimento 5 Stars and, with the vote in the Budget Committee in the House, was extended for everyone until June 2022 and until December 31, 2022 for the condominium buildings that in June have realized at least 60% of the works. These are innovative reforms for an Italy that leaves nothing unturned to project itself in the coming decades; a courageous political narrative (almost adventurous, certainly electrifying), which I could share with the contours of a great film trilogy. I use this metaphor because every measure taken by the Government in the last twelve months has been structured following a climax gradually increasing. The measures have been lived with an emphasis and empathy towards those in great difficulty and ask us for answers in order to be able to work and return to their normal life. For example, the last decrees - I am referring to the quadrilogy of refreshment - can be considered sequels to a first great film, but they manage to be almost better than the work before and to constitute, together with this budget maneuver, a unique and indivisible body. These works have had a great director, whom I want to thank personally: President Giuseppe Conte. [[Applause]] He has been able to be glued to the whole majority and, with his resolute spirit, he has been able to proceed with extreme conviction in his very complicated work of finding answers to a crisis that has never been seen before. Where there is a movie, there are viewers. Who is our audience? Obviously, they are all Italians (not only people, but also companies, entrepreneurs and freelancers), who have not only been spectators of this parliamentary work, but have also actively contributed to achieving the final result. Our goal, which I am convinced we have achieved in part, has always been not to entertain them, but to help them overcome this moment of extreme difficulty. I am aware that much still needs to be done. For this reason, it will be necessary to show courage in the structural reforms of the next two years of the parliamentary term that remain. I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that the courage I have been talking about has been seen in all the actors who, together with me, have participated in all the meetings of the group leaders with the government over the last few months. No one has ever given up, nor has he ever limited himself to the minimum of unionism. If a good actor does a shabby interpretation, it can affect the entire final result of a film. For this reason, I can confirm that everyone, until today, has given their best (or, at least, almost everyone). It makes me smile, thinking about what movie some fellow senator could have shot on the other side of the hemicycle: I can think of something similar to a trash movie. We have seen this, fortunately for less than a year: a film that wanted to ape Clint Eastwood in Inspector Callaghan. The problem is that instead of criminals, we are stubborn in wanting to force the prerogatives of the Ministry of the Interior and pretend that international law does not exist. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude my speech with the hope that many innovative rules contained in this budgetary manoeuvre will not be exhausted in 2021. I would also like to remind some of my colleagues who do not have the courage to climb a mountain can certainly not fall, but those who remain in the plain will live a life without emotion, passion and joy. [[Applause]] Let me say that in the Movimento 5 Stars we do not live in this way. Therefore, I declare the 5 Star Movement vote in favour of the draft budget law. [[Applause. Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u56	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u57	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u58	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, you are not going to miss the fact that you continue whistling accompanies the speeches in this House. [[Applause]] This is not acceptable; excesses must be stigmatized wherever they come from, but Members must be placed in a position to make their speech while listening. [[Comments.]] Mr President, you will not have missed the fact that for a long time certain speeches have been disturbed with the sole and sole aim of not bringing them to fruition. [[Protests. Recalls of the President]] Let me conclude, Mr President: use the Quaestor Senators and your Bureau to point out behaviors that cannot be tolerated anymore. [[Very lively protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u59	Please, colleagues, you can't hear anything, talk one at a time! In the meantime, I wish there was no gathering, and that is the first point. Secondly, it is true that there has been some dispute, but everyone has been able to speak. I mean something else, too. [[Comments.]] Excuse me, Senator, you've already spoken to your Parent Company and I'm talking to you: can you sit down, please? We are passing the most important law of the year and we are doing it in one day. Perhaps some protests because this House had one day - and I say one - to be able to examine the most important measure can also be accepted. [[Applause. Live, prolonged protests]] Please, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want applause. We are talking here about parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u60	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u61	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u62	PARAGO (Mixed). In the meantime, I would like to thank you, Mr President, because you are giving Parliament and this particular branch a central role. You want to be pro-Europeans and champions of Europeanism, but take slaps. Germany, on the vaccination level, once again reminded you of the rules of the game: Europe is theirs, it is theirs. [[Applause]] Does Germany do what it wants? Italexit is here to tell you: well, everyone thinks of a sovereign, free and autonomous state. Brexit is the victory of the British. Enough with this harmful eurohypnosis, which is tragically harmful. Germany did what it wanted on vaccines exactly as it did with the distribution of migrants and the surplus of the trade balance, in constant violation of the rules. He did it by saving his own banks and covering his allied countries, which are tax havens. Today you propose us yet another artificial exercise of accounting, other than economic restart: it is the fourth version of "promettopolis," which works a little bit inside this deforming mirror of the Palazzi, but outside it does not work for nothing, where there is a country that in silence is ill, and attentive to what it broods. What do you do? You are still behind Benetton, who maramaldeggiano on the suq created by Count and supported by Minister Patuanelli, the minister friend of the jaguar. There were 44 deaths in Genoa and you didn't lift a pipe! Moreover, you are making multinationals fat; what interests you in small and medium-sized enterprises? You are trying to give away that Monte dei Paschi di Siena on which all Italians had to put their money, so that they can control a bank. Come in with a maneuver full of bonuses. But do you want to understand that to catch a bonus you have to overcome a gincana of paperwork? So much for simplification. You talk about Covid in war language and then you want to rebuild without money or ideas. You had to reset some tax items and reduce the cost of labour, the system charges in bills and excise duties on petrol and you had to promote a jubilee about bank suffering: but now, from your dear Europe, another shameful injustice comes upon those who are on the line of the bank account. Is this all cost? Of course it costs a lot. But who's paying? The state, with its sovereign currency. Do you know what the Japanese government has done now? A plan of almost 840 billion euros. It is the third year in a row that Japan has approved maneuvers for over 100,000 billion yen and it does so because it has sovereign currency and owns its public debt, which it is not afraid of. So keep Europe's idiotic rules. Italexit wants to leave and is not afraid, because we are Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u63	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u64	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u65	DE FALCO (Misto-+Eu-Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as expected, we have reached yet another vote of confidence blindly. It is true that it is becoming a practice, an unconstitutional practice, but this year the Covid emergency has also made the situation worse. We have proof of this from the rain of decrees that one House in turn examines and the other can only ratify, without intervening. This is a confusing practice, to which this year has also been added the invention of the Ristorian decrees, which then merge into an indistinct matrioska. In 2018 many Senators of the Democratic Party, a Group that was in opposition at the time, rightly came to claim before the Constitutional Court, raising conflict of powers and stating that the method of simplified and contracted approval in the time of the fiscal law of 2019 violated, as then the Court confirmed, the prerogatives of each individual Senator. Then, as now, it had not been possible to examine the measure, nor to discuss the amendments. Today, while changing the circumstances, the substance - Senator Errani, I also address her - does not change at all. This practice is unconstitutional and wrong and depressing not only the individual parliamentarians, but Parliament and, ultimately, also the President of the Republic itself of the duty to examine funditus the budget law, the most important law of the State. Article 73 of the Constitution, in fact, gives the Head of State a period of up to one month to assess the law, while the Government by this practice is depriving him of the power and the duty of control. This year's budget law signals the crisis and the tragedy, if only we think of the error that emerged last night in the government. This way of proceeding deprives the Member of Parliament, the Parliament, the Head of State and the Government itself of the power and duty to correct their mistakes. For these reasons of method and for many others of merit the same Parliamentary Budget Office has defined this budget law as a confused set and an indistinguishable coaching without drawing. For all these reasons, we cannot and cannot vote in favour, because we leave one constitutional paradigm for fear of entering another, that of the provisional exercise.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u67	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u68	DRAGO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I never thought I would be here today to express an explanation of vote in dissent from the Group. (Brusio). I see that colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars, who questioned the fact that they were not given the opportunity to speak, are now doing the same. [[Applause]] I was saying that I never imagined that I would be voting in dissent here by the Group, which is clearly not like the others and has a peculiarity of its kind, because within the Mixed Group we have a political reality and even the Parent Company that supports the Government, but this is a parenthesis. As for the reason why I have decided to vote in dissent, together with my colleagues from the People's Party, who are the protagonists of the House of Deputies, the reason is always the usual reason, that is to say, that of a merely apparent collaboration. [[Brusio]] I am silent, however, if colleagues continue with their buzz. [[Call the president back.]] Thank you, Mr President. As I said, important issues have not been considered. A single paragraph on the 110% bonus was made in the Chamber of Deputies and people with disabilities were taken into consideration with reference to the interventions on condominiums: with an amendment, however, we had asked for the possibility of extending this type of intervention also within the home walls, therefore in the home; again, however, the proposal was not taken into consideration. What, then, about school and family interventions? Sometimes I feel really sorry to hear this last term used only on the media level: do not tell me, in fact, that structural proposals have been made for the family. This is not, however, a problem of the present majority, because it has involved the entire Senate. As for the school, there is an absolute deafness, superficiality and inhumanity in not considering, in this moment of emergency caused by the Covid-19, the request of a category of teachers, exiled by law no. 107 of 2015 for more than three years, and not only, that require to return to their territories. The request was also made in the light of the results of the pensions for the period 2021-2022. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator Drago. DRAGO (Mixed). We have therefore tabled an amendment calling for administrative mobility and for the winners of the 2016 and 2018 competitions to be put in place. It doesn't make sense: at school we need to cover empty chairs, but we give them to alternates, who are also not qualified. There is an illogicality in the management of personnel that has no precedent. Finally, I would like to mention another important issue, which concerns the so-called single platform. Colleagues, do you know that the privacy and security of our young people in school are not protected? I have asked several times, within the 5 Star Movement, and now also outside, as a protagonist People, the use of a unique platform, for every order and grade of school, whose data were managed by the Ministry of Education, but also this was denied. I will therefore vote against the budgetary manoeuvre in our examination. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u69	I would ask you not to create assemblies in this House, ladies and gentlemen, I see too many massages.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u70	I refer to the vote on Article 1 of Law No 2054, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. Pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will be able to vote exclusively from his own post, declaring his own vote. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I would ask you once again to avoid gatherings at the centre of the Chamber. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Nencini is drawn by lot). I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Nencini. LAFORGIA, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Parellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bottici, Botto, Bress, Buccarilla Country, Carbone, Croa, Croatti, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Arienzo, De Bonis, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Ferrara, Ferrari, Di Piazza, Floridia Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Fantetti, Faraone, Fattori, Fede, Fedeli, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferraari, F. Senators say no: Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Agugussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Barboni, Battistoni, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Borghesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Casolati, Causin, Ciriani, Corti Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Carlo, De Falco, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis, Doria, Drago Fazzolari, Fazzone, Ferrero, Ferro, Floris, Fusco Gallone, Gasparri, Giammanco, Giarrusso, Giro, Grassi Iannoni, La Russa, Lucidi, Lunesu Mafoni, Malan, Martelli, Martelli, Marti, Marti, Alfredo, Giammanco, Giarido, Minesso, Montersio, Molesso, Moute PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote of Article 1 of Law No 2054, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies, on the approval of which the Government has put the question of trust: [[Senators present 281 Senators voting 280 Majority 141 Favorable 156 Contrari 124 Absent 0]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] All the amendments and agendas presented in Article 1 of the draft law are therefore not included. Pursuant to Rule 120 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of bill No 2054, as a whole. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. [[See Annex B. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u73	CASELATI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, last Monday in the Commission public works, Senate communications was finally voted on the opinion on the draft programme contract for the cross-border section of the new Turin-Lyon railway line (in fact, I like to say Kiev-Algeciras). This is a great victory not only of the parliamentarians of the League, who strongly supported and supported the High Speed, but of the whole country. [[Applause]] The non participation in the vote of the 5 Stars emphasizes even more the bipolarity of this party and its members, ecologists to alternate phases [[Applause]] , in favour of the indiscriminate use of scooters in the city, but hostile to a work that will lead to a reduction of greenhouse gases equal to the carbon dioxide produced by a city of 300,000 inhabitants, such as Catania or Bari. I call on Minister Lamorgese to take pride in protecting the workers of the construction site and the forces of order who guarantee its safety. I suggest the establishment of a block, for security reasons, of the Gallo-Roman path, to the anarcho-insurrectionalists who periodically attack the construction site. He could be up to Jiglione's sports field. This is in order to avoid extremely unspeakable situations for an evolved country such as I believe is Italy, like that occurred on 13 December last, when a policeman, wounded by the little peaceful protesters, was taken to hospital not by an ambulance but by a wheelbarrow, first, and by a private car, then. Economically speaking, the relapse will be almost immediate since they will arrive in the Province of Turin 90 million euros for the compensatory works to the municipalities that have suffered discomfort [[Applause]] and that will add to the 8,000 jobs that the yard will bring to the territory. At a time of economic history such as the present, massacred by the pandemic, infrastructure works are the ideal flywheel to restart the economy. We Piedmontese are sick of not being considered. We don't want to live on subsidies. We want to continue to work and, also thanks to the TAV, Piedmont will be the protagonist of the economic revival of post-Covid Italy. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u74	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u76	(M5S). Mr President, this has been a very difficult year and, even in this House, there have been moments of confrontation, hard words, situations that can be easily justified, thinking of politics as many of us thought before running for this role. There have also been moments of hard confrontation, but it has always been a matter of situations between peers, between people who have the ability to defend themselves both legally and dialectically. Unfortunately, in this phase of continuous tension, some characters of the world of communication, and unfortunately also of the institutions, have instead distinguished themselves for a practice that I personally consider absolutely annoying, that is, to offend by bringing into play entire categories. It happened to so many of us, of all sides, and it happened the other day to the mayor of Rome Virginia Raggi, at the moment when the colleague - let's call it this - Vittorio Sgarbi of the Chamber, in the eagerness to offend him at all costs, has brought into play, denigrating him, an entire category, that of the Italian waiters; a category of which include older children and people, men and women who in this year have suffered, perhaps more than others, the drama of the phase due to the Covid. At the moment when I wish everyone a good 2021 - that it is up to a calendar and normal year and not like 2020 - I must also say at the same time that, unfortunately, people like Sgarbi trigger other thoughts and bring to mind, to me and to many of us, old sayings; one among all: to brigand, brigand and a half. Well, maybe such characters deserve this kind of treatment. [[Applause.]] Mr President, good luck!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u77	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u79	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, the adoption of the budget law remains an issue. On 12 February 2021, the deadline for the suspension of permits for research, exploration and cultivation of hydrocarbons, as set out in Law No 12 of 2019, will expire, pending the implementation of the Plan for the sustainable energy transition of suitable areas (PITESAI). Mr President, every law has its purpose: the law in question is to promote environmental sustainability, to cancel the impact of upstream activities and to accompany the decarbonisation process. With PITESAI, however, the areas suitable for mining activities are more easily identified, taking into account some very important factors, such as the territorial, social, economic, urbanistic and morphological characteristics, as well as the impact on the ecosystem; establishing once and for all clearly and clearly the criteria, that is the times and the ways of restoration of those areas, when the plants are abandoned; in practice, everything that has not been done in Basilicata in the last twenty years. I remember that Basilicata is 90 percent of the territory affected by requests for permits for research, exploration and cultivation of hydrocarbons. It is clear that this law is of interest to citizens and also very much, because environmental protection concerns the protection of their own health and also of their own economy. Today we count the deaths from Coronavirus, but how many have we counted and will we still count among those who have died from diseases related to environmental pollution? I give you some data, which comes from the European Environment Agency, which shows that Italy pays a very hard price: from 80,000 to 100,000 people die a year from diseases caused by environmental pollution. Moreover, how many companies are closing due to the energy, health and economic crisis resulting from Coronavirus, but how many have we counted and will we count, especially in the agricultural sector, that close their doors due to pollution in their territory? It's all a chain. It works like this: it closes a company, they leave people, they close other shops in that territory and there comes social desertification. It is the phenomenon of depopulation. In Basilicata there are oil wells that insist on aquifers close to hospitals, near invades whose water serves for irrigation of agricultural fields, as well as reinjection wells. In conclusion, it is truly incredible what happens in that land. That is why I have asked three questions, one addressed to the Minister of Economic Development to understand the state of progress of the PITESAI; one to the Minister of the Environment and the one for cultural goods and activities to have their opinion on a specific well (the Pergola well 1) and another, finally, to the Minister of Agricultural Policy to understand if a census has ever been made on farms that have closed in Italy because of pollution. Mr President, I would like to say that I will put forward an amending proposal if this is not the case in the House of Members, in order to request the extension of the suspension of mining activities. And I would add that it will be my care to provide the Lucanian citizens with a suitable tool for them to finally be able to say theirs on the subject of oil. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u80	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u81	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u82	LANNUTTI (M5S). Mr President, on 6 March 2013 Davide Rossi, head of the communication of Monte dei Paschi di Siena, was found dead on the road on which his office was facing Rocca Salimbeni, in Siena. The numerous investigations opened by the magistrates, despite the seizure of his mobile phone from which 300 e-mails were deleted, between phone calls and messages that would have shed full light on that mysterious death, have led to nothing; while the oldest bank, founded in 1472 as Monte di piety to give help to the poor classes of the city, which over the centuries had managed to resist wars, famines, pestilences and earthquakes, failed to resist a wretched management of credit and savings, swallowing in a large black hole 60 billion euros between capital increases and destruction of public and private money paid out by shareholders. Today, that bank, partly cured with public funds, risks being given to the bank of Alessandro Profumo, that Unicredit presided over by a former deputy and former Minister of the economy, in derogation from precise European directives on banking goodness. I refer to Directive 36/2013 (CRD IV), which lays down strict rules for the selection of managers of banks' boards of directors. Italy has delayed for seven years the transposition of that directive, with the latest version provided by the former Minister Padoan, which provided strict rules against the conflicts of interest of bankers to be appointed, in paragraph 3 of Article 24. Well, Mr Gualtieri, in the transposition of that directive, has made such a provision. In conclusion, Mr President, I believe that we must avoid the possibility of paying back banks to Unicredit. Let me also remind you that Senator Francesco Castiello has unfortunately been hospitalized at Gemini for a couple of days: we wish him and all the sick of Covid-19 a speedy recovery. [[Applause]] Mr President, since Article 47 of the Constitution protects public savings, it cannot be allowed to destroy it. Colleagues, I wish you all a serene 2021, which will certainly be better than the harmful 2020. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u85	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, after the appointment of various Commissioners and a new Calabria decree, which in the dim light of a contribution of solidarity makes the Calabrian hostage of ignorance - understood as a lack of knowledge of the whole health system, and not only of the Calabrian one, on the part of those who should care about health as absolute good, according to our Constitution - to the history of Calabrian health we add new pieces that, framed both in the public and in the private, paint an organizational framework abandoned to themselves. Today I intervene to bring to the attention of the Senate the case of the clinic Sant'Anna Hospital in Catanzaro, a reference center for the whole of South Italy for specialized cardiosurgery, in agreement with the National Health Service, which is at the center of a diatribe that, beyond the emergence of deficiencies, illegitimateness and investigations of the judiciary, in which we place ample trust and that must continue their course, involves not only the governance of the structure, legitimized even by an order of the judge for the preliminary investigations of Catanzaro, but of course the employees and, above all, all, all users, Calabrian and non. The lack of payment from the Provincial Health Company (ASP) of the regularly provided services, amounting to about 23 million euros, and the absence of a comparison, through the convocation of a technical table that updates on what must be the future of the body of excellence of the Calabrian health, put the clinic in the impossibility to continue to provide diligently as has always done the specialized services. We therefore ask, for the center of Sant'Anna, that it represents a reversal of tendency regarding the sanitary migration, realizing an active and not a passive one for the Region, that the commissioner ad acta intervenes with solicitude, releasing an exceptional plan of maintenance of the services, to extend for the duration of the state of national emergency. This would allow the management to put in place, once and for all, the necessary measures and the Department for the protection of the health of the Calabria Region to transmit, perhaps sometimes using also the certified e-mail (PEC), all the necessary acts to the ASP in order to limit the numerous problems deriving from the failure to renew the convention in the previous years. For once, bureaucracy gives way to common sense and the Commissioner ad acta, if there is any sense of it, acts, so that we can allow the resumption of outstanding activities and the necessary care of citizens suffering from serious cardiological diseases and waiting for hope. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u88	RAMPI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, with yesterday's appeal ruling on the events of Lodi's canteens, an important act of justice has been carried out in this country. However, I would like to raise a point for the attention of this House: when we raised the issue and asked the then Minister for Education, asking for an intervention on the matter which unfortunately was not put in place, we asked for a political question. Now it is good for the judiciary to take its course; there is the division of powers and fortunately there is a rule of law in this country and an important principle is restored. It is a pity that the municipal administration of Lodi has resisted this and has also spent a lot of public money for nothing, rather than taking note of a fact. But there is one subject that is deeply political on which I would like this House to reflect. That unholy decision to find bureaucratic tricks to prevent girls and children from participating in the service of canteens, as a normal and logical fact and civilization, has behind a feeling, of senders and a climate that today, in a pandemic situation and in the light of the law that we voted last week, that has wiped out some deep injustices of our country, seems past, just from a geological era, but I don't think so. Then perhaps from that sentence the real element that we should all assume is to stop using poor people, in trouble and in poor conditions, and point them out as enemies. And doing this especially with children and girls is an incredible thing. This is the climate that must change, and the sentence, which is an act of justice, must become a common feeling of the country, which should belong to all political forces and close an era in which we have used the migrant as an enemy; a feeling that should bring this country back to the world to be a bishop of justice, civilization, encounter and inclusion, as our extraordinary history has always represented. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u89	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u91	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, yesterday we heard about the condemnation of ten activists for Hong Kong's freedom, for trying to get out of the country and go to Taiwan. Hong Kong has become a prison. It was one of the freest, most extraordinary and creative places in the world: today the Beijing Government has reduced it to a prison. With this speech, I would like to ask the answer to my question 3-01872 of 18 August 2020, in which I asked for account of Italy's shameful abstention vote when it came to condemning the Hong Kong Security Act that is causing damage every day and making China particularly aggressive towards other countries, including Australia, in its general expansionist policy. I also ask the answer to question 3-01924 of 16 September last on the price of school benches purchased by Commissioner Arcuri and to the question 4-03942 of 5 August last about the painful affair of a mother of the Province of Cuneo to whom four children were taken with reasons still very unclear. Horror of horrors, those four boys, between the ages of six and sixteen, were separated from each other, because - think a little'- deprived of the mother's father had created a strong cohesion between them. It is a shameful affair on which I have put a question to Mr Bonafede, who has not yet answered me. As the last speech this year, I would like to take this opportunity, Mr President, to express to you the best wishes for the new year and, together with you, all the Members present and the officials of the Senate, represented at your highest summit by the Secretary-General, as well as the representative of the Government who is also our colleague.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u92	Thank you, Senator Malan, for the opportunity to express to those who have remained a happy New Year's wish. I think 2021 can only be better than 2020. Greetings to everyone and a thank you to the whole administration. As they say, I wish you everything and more. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u93	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-12-30-LEG18-Senato-sed-289.ana.u94	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 12 January 2021, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 13.15 a.m.)
