ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.30 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u4	The next item is the continuation of the debate on draft law No 1925. I would remind you that at yesterday's sitting the rapporteurs carried out the oral report, the general discussion and the rapporteur's reply took place, and the Government put the question of confidence in amendment 1,900, which is entirely a substitute for the single article of the draft law converting the decree-law. I would like to say that the Presidency - and it is being distributed - has received the opinion of the 5th standing Commission on Amendment 1,900, which will be published in an annex to today's report. I would ask the representative of the Government whether he intends to accept the opinion of the Budget Committee.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u5	Mr. President, the government transposes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u6	I declare open the debate on the question of trust. She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u7	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Government, if we were at school, the teacher would tell me that I am repetitive. But so much so, we are the usual, with the Count Governments that seem characterized by the rhetorical figure of repetition. Even today, for the umpteenth time, we are voting yet another confidence to the Government on a decree-law that should have been one of the anchors of salvation for our country, but that in reality is still a lost opportunity; a provision with the characteristics of urgency, but that instead makes us understand how wide the gap between the action of the Government and the reality of the serious problems of our country, which instead require urgent interventions and solutions. In reality, the majority of people cover with ideology the real motivations of their actions; they use the emergency, in particular the state of emergency, to ensure the survival of the government, but they cannot then take clear and courageous decisions on the essential issues, also because the different components do not agree on anything at all. What has the government concluded to date? Alitalia, Ilva, Atlantia, TAV yes, TAV no, MES yes, MES no, unsolved business crisis tables: these are issues not dealt with promptly, aggravated if ever with the current crisis, remained unresolved and became real tormentons. The forecasts are alarming: GDP is expected to fall sharply, i.e. industrial production; domestic consumption is still, while public debt is at 158 percent of GDP. What's the answer? Ready nine million billing records for checks, increase of bills, measures not financed enough, taxes not extended nor even reduced. The priority remains the work. According to the CGIA in Mestre, by the end of the year there will be some 3.6 million jobs lost, but we cannot be surprised; there is no shock investment on business and the world of work continues to be cast when it would be advisable to create more possibilities. Even on this occasion, our proposals were not accepted to make it more streamlined and flexible: from the abolition of causalities to the addition of extensions of fixed-term contracts to the inclusion of vouchers, to the introduction of real incentives not only for recruitment, but also for the maintenance of jobs. The problem is that there are no projects in the medium or long term. The mindset of this government is of a welfare type, and does not tend to invest to turn the economy and create GDP. [[Applause.]] There is no structural solution to the problems of employment; there is an increase in current expenditure and a deficit; there is the basis for the final failure of thousands of companies; there are planning forward-looking structural measures, not limited to old projects of works taken out and dusted out of the ministerial drawers, or there will be no future. Some good ideas sometimes appear, but then it is carried out improperly, risking endangering entire sectors. I quote the ecobonus and the sysmabonus at 110 percent of the decree-law relaunch: in itself a good solution to relaunch the entire building sector, but the problem is that the measure does not yet start. For months the sector has not worked because the clients are waiting for the superbonus, and then find out that the measure involves stakes and stakes and so much, so much bureaucracy that will greatly limit its scope. The Count Government bases its future plans on resources from the recovery fund; it is unfortunate that the Executive is far behind the plans. Meanwhile, with yet another preview announcement, the state of emergency for the health crisis Covid-19 is launched at least until 31 January next, but at the same time we do not proceed to have access to the resources of the ESM: a clear contradiction. In fact, the government not only does not have the clear ideas, but the division within it involves a stalemate on measures to be taken very important. We argue that the ESM is an instrument that cannot be spared. [[Applause.]] Finally, it must be emphasized that this Government is fundamentally living with announcements, but if - as is often the case - the announcements are released before the promulgation of the norm or decree of the President of the Council of Ministers - as the case may be - it is fatal, especially at this stage of emergency, because they cause distortions that can also be heavily damaging to the market balances and counterproductive from the social point of view, and this is very serious. For this reason, too, we have a duty to continue to shout out our indignation at the unholy decisions of this Government, taken by DMCM, by decree-laws, by implementing measures, to which we add - if not enough - even the circulars of the Revenue Agency are so many measures that often go beyond the enormous legislation - and this is very serious - but that in essence reveal the immobilism of the government's action and where they act, instead, do damage. This is the case of the decision to invest about 2 billion euros in the purchase of benches, including those on wheels - and we would like to ask another question to understand the real cost - to face the limitations imposed by the emergency Covid in the school, unlike the German government that instead decided to invest half a billion for the digitization of schools. The result is that in too many Italian schools - I remember the example of a professional institute in Venice - students don't teach either at school or at home, because they lack both teachers and suitable facilities, and they can't even teach at a distance. This is the difference between a Government that intervenes effectively, looking in perspective also to the future, and a Government, like ours, that instead spends the resources badly and struggles to remedy the problems, limiting itself to the perspective of the present. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u8	He's enlisted to speak Senator Bagnai. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u9	Mr President, I am speaking in this general debate on trust. The position that my Group will be expressing is obvious, but the specific one for the benefit of those who listen to us outside this House: we will, of course, vote against it. I shall just give a few arguments, both on the method and on the substance of why we will vote against it. I'll start with what might be the tombstone that will be placed on this government's grave at the next election appointment: They had announced the lottery of the receipts, they made the lottery of the folders. The reverent voters put it down. [[Applause]] Yes, because the lottery of receipts was postponed on January 1st, while on October 15th there will be 9 million folders; at a time, however, the Minister of Economy and Finance told us: they will leave gently and therefore, someone will find them in the mailbox, in an economic situation of the country that is the one we know. And it is also because this Government, from the point of view of the method, has made a tragic mistake, a tragic underestimation of the scale of the crisis, which has resulted, rather than in a few incisive interventions - as has been requested by the whole opposition during yesterday's general debate on the substance of the measure - in a sort of drizzle in August of more or less well-founded, more or less useful interventions. Let me take a moment to get to the bottom of this. But if so many small speeches had to be made, for example, instead of coming to this House to mourn crocodile tears about the fate of the activities that close, could not we find 500 million euros to extend until the end of the year the tax credit on commercial rents? It could have been a measure that would have allowed so many small businesses to try to resist until the end of the year, waiting for the economy to start again. No, you don't. The attitude of this government is what I have already described: it is the attitude of the struggle against kulaki, of the ideological struggle against property, in particular against small property, because the great property, the great finance in many souls of this majority is heard. I would like to give an example, Mr President, which is not taken from this measure, but which is in some way the epitome of this philosophy of intervention. We are debating in the Commission a bill of measures for urban regeneration, which is in line with the subject I have brought to you. In Article 6 of this draft law - think what this majority has invented - it is expected that the Municipalities will censify and map commercial properties located in historical urban centres unused for more than twelve months and, by detecting the image damage to the community due to urban degradation caused by their inuse, may increase the base rate of the IMU up to three times. I don't know if I made myself clear. An owner has an empty shop; for this majority it is his fault and therefore we triple the IMU, because thus, by beating him, he will have an incentive to rent it. But to whom will I rent it, if in the meantime an unprecedented crisis of demand and non-solving interventions by the Government shut down the commercial activities? [[Applause]] This philosophy of intervention, i.e. the use of tax mainly in a punitive way, must not surprise us: in the end it is the same philosophy as IRAP, the great invention of Mr Visco who, by penalising the cost of labour, thought that entrepreneurs would move on capital, on machines and that this would increase productivity, on the basis of the idea, anti-entrepreneurship and anti-capitalist, that the entrepreneur is a lazy, rich, a master, a parasite, that tends to live on rent. These entrepreneurs will also be there, for goodness sake: each basket has rotten apples - except for this majority of course - and, therefore, it may also be so. The entrepreneurs I see wake up every morning with the desire to efficiency their internal processes and improve their product, but on this road they encounter three obstacles that this Government has done nothing so far to remove: the pitiful state of infrastructure, an unprecedented crisis of demand (already evoked, but remember it) and - last but not least, to express us as they speak to the Ministry of Economy and Finance - the state of civil justice, which also creates major problems to the entrepreneurial system and, in particular, to foreign investors. For example, I don't mention Ilva for the sake of the Fatherland. In the face of all this, the usual measure is adopted that speaks of everything so that nothing can be deepened and that is then transformed, fatally, into the Commissions - forgive me the neologism, I hope that it is not censored by the Presidency -, in a march factory on which then the manna of the General Accounting of the State, expunging or in any case censoring even amendments that the Ministry of Economy and Finance itself had proposed. This, among other things, poses an interesting institutional theme, i.e. whether the General Accounting of the State is an authority independent of the Government and not a articulation of the Ministry because, since we do not speak, inside the Palace, we should still decide who is in charge. And this is a theme that I leave to the reflection of all of us. These are the brief comments I wanted to make, in addition to the usual ones concerning yet another distrust and the Government that does not listen to us, even if this is not true, because the Undersecretary Castaldi listens to me and I am grateful for it. The problems of method remain and are these. Anyway, the epitaph I offered you and the voters will soon put it on your last rest. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u10	I declare closed the debate on the question of trust posed by the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u11	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u13	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the measure under consideration exceeds EUR 100 billion in interventions since the outbreak of the pandemic, but the novelty is that a step forward is taken compared to the so-called decrees cure Italy and relaunch. If those measures had as their ultimate objective the immediate release of liquidity in the productive fabric and for families in difficulty, here there is a greater focus on the economic restart, although I must say not decisive. I am thinking above all of the rule that exempts from the payment of social security contributions those companies which renounce the integration fund, but also of the refinancing of the New Sabatini, the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, the moratorium on loans and loans, the Support Fund for the realities participating in projects of European interest. This measure has sought to strike a balance between recovery and assistance, which must not be lacking, however, because there are sectors and categories still in great difficulty. Well, then, the reprogramming of tax deadlines, as well as aid to those categories that had not benefited from it, such as seasonal tourism and spa. Also with regard to tourism, the rule on rental tax credits is important, although the fear is that all this will not be enough. Without being catastrophic, the increase in cases of contagion casts a heavy shadow on the winter season, not to mention the cities of art that, without foreign tourism, are practically collapsed. The start of the winter season, but also of the spring season, are a concern that we should all have. From now on we should imagine how to help and meet those companies and those employed in those sectors if this pandemic really does not leave us free. Mr President, on a measure of EUR 25 billion, the share allocated to parliamentary work was only EUR 250 million. Once again, I must and should like to express my regret that the Commissions are being left with so little room for manoeuvre. However, previous measures have shown that Parliament has succeeded in improving the measures and not rarely in a spirit of cooperation between the majority and oppositions, as has happened here too. In the Commission, we have taken care of situations of fragility, such as those of immunodepressed workers, cancer patients, earthquake-stricken areas, tourism and the spa sector, streetwalkers. As far as the territories we represent are concerned, unfortunately we still cannot write an end to the renewal of the A22 concession. Autobrennero is an artery of strategic importance for the whole country, because it connects the Italian economy with that of central Europe. The presence in the governance of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces is not a substitute, but it is the only guarantee that the interests of the citizens of these territories, who of course enjoy such an important infrastructure, will also pay for the negative effects in terms of traffic, pollution and safety. We must acknowledge the Minister and all the Ministry responsible for the great commitment he is making to us, and we really hope that the budget law will finally bring this dossier to an end. To conclude, Mr President, today we are dismissing the measure when we examine it, knowing that work on the budget law and recovery fund will be waiting for us in the next few days. Without wanting to appear rhetorical, the future of the country will be decided in the coming months. We need to get out of the bulimia of too many proposals to put in place a path that also actively involves territorial autonomy, a great competitiveness project based on digitisation, 5G, hydrogen, ecological conversion, training and education. We need a radical reform of the tax system, because - as the director of the Italian Revenue Agency said with great intellectual honesty - no one has clear boundaries of the tax system and this is the biggest limit for citizens, businesses and those who want to invest. It is not so important here that we opt for the German model or the reduction of rates, as the fact that all citizens can finally know what they pay, when they pay and why they pay. And we need a big investment in health care. This pandemic reminded us of the importance of a health service that is up to date and today with the ESM Italy can really give life to the greatest reform that I have ever known since the introduction of the National Health Service. The budget law will also be important. It is necessary to continue to reduce labour costs in order to boost recovery and to prevent the debt-to-GDP ratio from reaching unsustainable levels once the European Central Bank's market coverage is over, because that day will come sooner or later. Only with growth is the debt of a country reduced; only with growth are jobs created, as unfortunately teaches us also the failure of citizenship income as an active policy for work: a new growth however, a growth directed entirely on sustainability; a growth that will also guarantee future generations and to get there requires all the protagonism of the productive system. That is what we must continue to work on, and that is why I am announcing the Group's vote in favour of the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u14	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u16	CONZACTS (IV-PSI). Egregio President, colleagues, representatives of the Government, with this decree-law the quartet of decrees (cura Italia, liquidity, relaunch, August) approved in order to buffer the serious economic, health and social crisis that the Covid has involved for our country. It is ten months of interventions, 100 billion of new net debt, 210 billion of net balance to be financed. They are numbers able to tell in their effectiveness all the drama and also the extraordinary moment that we are living. It must be said quite clearly that 100 billion have served to buffer the collapse of the Italian economy, but bringing it back to growth rates similar to those pre-crisis; growth rates not compatible with the new public debt, increased to 158 percent, and not compatible with a path that sees us really going the way of the rebirth and resilience of our country. So in this Chamber today, with the approval of the August decree, it must be said very clearly that growing, returning to growth, is not a choice, but an indispensable obligation for our country. We are in a difficult time and we risk a great deal. In order to have good public finance parameters and, therefore, widespread work and well-being, it is necessary to avoid, with all the reasonableness and care of the case, a new lockdown. Today Madrid is back in lockdown; France is also approaching a drastic decision again. Italy and its economy cannot afford this: it is something that we must have very clear. Another priority issue is to start working very seriously to get the resources of the recovery fund, the Next generation EU plan. We have clear objectives, we have heard them decanting in many classrooms, here, in the Commission and in the various bicameral committees. It is clear that we want to build an innovative, dynamic, green, socially integrated and equal country. To achieve this goal, however, we need political, technical prerequisites, competences and human prerequisites that are still not objectively visible. On Thursday we will approve the recovery fund guidelines and, by April, we will approve the National Recovery and Resilience Plan (PNRR). Naturally and necessarily we will have to approve it in January, not April, so that it is as soon as possible in order to receive the first deposit from Europe. The recovery plan and the PNRR are a social and political pact; of course, they are the decision where, how and when to invest resources: it is fundamental and very important. It can be said that they are also a new exercise for our Parliament and for our democracy, but above all they are a crossroads: to decide to have a new European generation in Italy, or to let us slip into inedia, in everyday political skirmishes, in the interests of partisan or in the slowness of some bureaucracies. What we are going to face on Thursday is therefore not a paper fact, but an existential fact. The so-called August decree, despite having invested 25 billion, was not really an existential step; a certainly important step, but a measure dropped still in the emergency phase, very rich of necessary and indispensable aid at this stage. It is, however, a matter of aid. We have seen many extensions of measures taken in the care of Italy and in the decree relaunch; a lot of Cassa Integrazione and still bonuses, bonuses, rightly rights for smart working, responses to calamitous events (from frost to floods) and then extensions of the subjective scope to access the guarantees of the SME Guarantee Fund; extensions of the subjective scope to access the bonus restaurant; postponement of taxes - very much requested, but still simply a postponement -, tax advantage; funds to buffer tourism, spas, school and, rightly, funds to curb the very serious effect of the social crisis, which is that of violence and discrimination. Everything is necessary, we have voted on it in the Commission and we are voting on it in this House, but it must be said very clearly that we still see nothing decisive for the rebirth, resilience and restart of our country. We still have to accept many of the demands of the productive world, which asks to be able to modernize, to be able to pay taxes, rightly, but encouraging all the productive factors, to be able to aggregate and become more competitive, to be put in the conditions to drive this country out of the difficulty. We have not yet faced the node of citizenship income. It is clear, now, to all of us that, just as it was voted by the League and the Movimento 5 Stars two years ago, it is an end in itself, but it gives no prospect of redemption, neither personal nor work. So it is not compatible, as it is, with a perspective of rebirth of the country. At this stage we have to say that we need prerequisites, a chronoprogram of work, strategic lines to avoid getting lost again in individual requests and in individual aid interventions. It will also be a difficult policy, it will also be an unpopular policy, the serious one, but we do not have many alternatives at the moment. At the moment of the great responsibility to ferry the country out of this situation, it is better to do so with a sort of national unity, where everyone is called to responsibility. Surely the majority must change their attitude and have a new one to re-alphabetize the country. We have done much on social and territorial cohesion, but on the re-literacy of the country still not enough, as on the digital and infrastructural competences and on the level of hydrogeological failure. It seems to me that the dramatic images of these days tell a lot about the delays we have to fill: infrastructure, bridges, ports and metropolitans. It seems to me that at this moment, and I say this by joining those who have asked for it forcefully, a majority political point is needed: a clear, strategic programme, and greater competences. More skills, because when the problems to be solved are difficult, more skills and subjective courage are needed in dealing with decisions, even unpopular. And all this is not only asked of politics, but it is asked of all the ruling classes, the intermediate bodies (from Confindustria to CGIL), which are stimulating us from this point of view, and also to the public and private leaders. Here is at stake the future of all, even those who, until today, have been the most guaranteed. So, this message must enter everyone's mental circuitry. Everyone, therefore, must put themselves at risk, studying more, making more effort and even trying to put themselves in the perspective of a policy of facts. And the facts are not compatible with referrals. Sometimes the files are complex, the decisions also. They're hard to hire, but they're inevitable. Then, at this moment, the decision to tackle the instrument of the unique social shock absorber becomes indispensable. We have seen that four decree-laws have been used to fill all the gaps in the current guarantee instruments, which are not compatible with either the emergency or with a country like what we want to build. We have to decide on the ESM. It is only a logical decision, it is not a political provocation. We're in an emergency phase. Health needs to be improved and renovated. The 37 billion ESM is indispensable and is over. It's a finite sum, and it ends. Therefore, it is essential to start with the infrastructure and not hold firm the investment files. As other Members have mentioned it, I quote one of the main investments, which is the Brenner motorway, the main linking infrastructure between Italy and Europe. This decree-law could find solutions, but it didn't want to find them. It was quite simple to find them, because, as my colleague Steger said, this is already an in house, with an important and indispensable investment capacity at this stage, and just let it continue in the virtuous effectiveness of its action. Instead, we wanted to insist on an ad personam proposal, by way of derogation from the civil code, which, rightly, the presidency of the Senate has declared impossible. I close with a thought by De Gasperi, which unites us in a phase of reconstruction: It must be said, frankly, that the organs of the State feel inadequate if they do not feel integrated by the collaboration of the categories concerned, by a dynamism of membership and competitions, which presupposes a high degree of social solidarity. There is no magic formula, no government, no organization has ever found it, or rather the formula is there, but it is very complex: it is solidarity, it is the moral sense, it is the civic consciousness above the hatreds of faction, of class selfishness, of political maneuvers, of all these small and deviant things in comparison to the salvation of the Italian people. To this perspective Italy Viva votes yes. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u17	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u18	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u19	Mr Calandrini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to renew, as I did yesterday during the presentation of the minority report which was granted to me, my thanks to the whole Commission for this work and for having at least, for the first time, allowed us to assess in depth the proposals that have arrived on the Commission table, which for the first time have seen the technical reports by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. In addition to this thank you, I would also like to denounce, Mr President, a behaviour in my opinion and in my opinion, which is incorrect by this Government and this majority, who thought - I want to use balanced terms - of conditioning minorities, granting them EUR 25 million on a decree of EUR 25 billion in the form of proposals to be included through amendments to this decree that is under discussion today. On these donations, the Brothers of Italy Group had the opportunity to make demands for five million euros, but even if it had been five billion euros, we would have clearly sent them back to the sender, because we never lent ourselves to these games by manual Cencelli on the skin of Italians. Brothers of Italy, however, in recent months has made thousands of proposals and has asked the Government to evaluate them by entering into the merit of the same. This was the cooperation that we asked for and we cannot and will never accept that we should be granted EUR 5 million as a price to be paid to say that cooperation and dialogue have taken place in the Commission before and in this House after. We are not for sale, our honor and our dignity have no price that can be paid. So, ma'am, we're here once again to play a comedy. The government, as we have always said and denounced, does not listen to us, decides alone and does not hear the country and this is a serious fact that has no precedent in our country. Continue to call us to ratify choices already made, without a minimum of collaboration, without a minimum of comparison. You think you represent the real country, but we think the situation is getting out of hand. We have been open to dialogue, in the work of the Commission which we have participated in these weeks we have demonstrated consistency and reliability, also withdrawing some amendments that we had tabled as a Parliamentary Group Brothers of Italy and here I would also like to thank my Parent Company, Senator Ciriani, for all the support it has given in the work carried out in the Commission. We wanted to see extended a measure able to relaunch a sector of the country in great suffering, that is the construction sector, with all the enormous induced that it can represent and to which you have given, through this measure approved with the decree relaunch, a single year of time to deploy its effectiveness, knowing that little more than a year will not be enough to be able to obtain the authorization titles that all those who will need this measure will have to ask their local authorities. So we agreed, as a challenge, to turn this amendment into an agenda, which the Government has approved. I have been taught that the agendas are not denied to anyone, but we will be very careful about this and we will launch a challenge waiting, as you have committed yourselves, on the budget law to see if there will be the conditions to make structural this rule, which - I want to reiterate - provides one of the very few measures, in a context of 100 billion that you have squandered, that can give a real hope of development to our country. On this we will challenge you - I repeat - in the budgetary maneuver to understand whether you will keep the commitments you have made through the approval of this agenda presented by the Parliamentary Group Brothers of Italy. Unfortunately, the so-called decree-law August follows the same logic and the same trail of the previous decrees: so much welfare and zero measures can lay the foundations for a concrete, serious and real development of our country. As I said before, you have squandered EUR 100 billion, which - be careful - is not billions of lost money, but a debt that you will leave to future generations. You had to create the future of our children and grandchildren, but you have already destroyed it within nine months. The measure under discussion is another decree of missed occasions because, as I have always said, there is no push for restarting. Unfortunately, we must again note that nothing has been done in this measure either, in which we hoped that, being the last of some emerging decrees, there would be a political vision for the development of the country. You continue to operate and live by exclusively buffering the emergency, which may in part be a legitimate fact, but outside this House there is a country that asks to be put in a position to walk with its own legs. To this country you deliver yet another measure of heart attack of bureaucracy and not even the last decree simplification has given the possibility to solve these problems. Your rule has always been to say: let us refer to the next decree. Today with this measure you told us that we will send back again and that everything will be done with the funds of the recovery fund (209 billion). But we ask ourselves some questions and ask ourselves: with what approach do you plan to manage this rain of funds? If it's the same with which you spent 100 billion, please stop. I would also like to take up what the rapporteur, Mr Missa, said last night, when he said: where are all these tips, all these measures and these prebende that the opposition denounces? I would like to remind you, Mr Missa: you had the courage - because it was not in the basic text - to approve an amendment a few nights ago in favour of darkness, whereas in the budget law you were not given this possibility, in order to approve an amendment of EUR 900,000 linked to the International House of Women in Rome. [[Applause.]] This is something you cannot hear; you have approved this amendment to avoid eviction to an association in the city of Rome Capital. You have to explain to me what the House of Women of Rome has to do with an emergency decree. I do not understand why no one denounces these facts, except us who are part of the opposition. Linko Missa, the 20 million euros for consulting Minister Franceschini, what do they have to do with this decree? The reorganization of the SACE group, the advice of Minister Gualtieri, the recruitment to the military arsenal of Taranto, what do they have to do with this emergency decree, Mr Missa? We didn't find any answers to these questions. We have tabled clear, precise and timely amendments to remove these marks at the root - allow me, Mr President - but we have been unable to do anything to achieve the objective we had set ourselves. We continue to call for elections because - and I conclude, Mr President - in front of your shortsightedness we need to change actors and we need to change plans, otherwise Italy will not be saved. We think of a country that must be free, strong and courageous, all characteristics that have evidently lacked this Government and this majority, and it is for these reasons that Brothers of Italy will never and never vote for this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u20	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u22	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, first of all I would like to express my sincere thanks for the work done by the rapporteurs and members of the Budget Committee, by majority vote and by opposition. It was a very important work for a decree-law which, as many have said and I want to remind you, is practically the fourth in the series of emergency measures. I have once again heard criticism of this point, but I believe it was everyone's responsibility to intervene in the extension of certain measures - I am thinking of the case of the integration fund, the contributory reliefs, the extension of the NASPI (new social insurance for employment), the Dis-Coll (unemployment benefit for employees), the Rem (emergency income) - in relation to a whole series of issues that were absolutely urgent to address. The Commission has intervened, not already dispersing the interventions, as some have said here. Of course, many amendments have been adopted, but they have tried to address four or five macro-areas. It has been approved - unanimously wanted by everyone - for example, an absolutely fundamental measure by which the injustice that was created for the failure to extend protection against fragile workers and immunodepressed with cancer disease has been remedied. It was an important contribution which, as the rapporteurs know, was also central to the allocation of resources. To this is added a number of other fundamental interventions on agriculture, certainly emerging, in order to overcome once again the situation that has been created, but in an attempt to look even further and to put measures in place for recovery. Then there is the intervention on tourism, on the thermal baths. We know perfectly well that the tourism sector has been among the most tried and probably will still face many difficulties, but we wanted to focus here on a series of measures that are absolutely important for tourism companies, with the extension, again in this case, of the Cassa Integrazione per i lavoratori del turismo, the strengthening of allowances, the tax credit rents, the suspension of mortgage payments, the redevelopment of accommodation facilities. We then intervened on the thermal facilities, which were a piece, not only of the health system, but also of the country's economy and which represent another great problem. Added to this is the question of the workers of the show and I could continue. I am thinking of some important measures with regard to the health system and the adoption of some amendments including, for example, the one on health districts and therefore on territorial medicine: it is certainly not a question of resources, but a problem of direction to reform and reinterpret our health system, by reinvigorating it. I would also like to mention the important contributions made in the areas of school and university training: in this area too, we have taken action to remedy what had been a mistake. In particular, on the emergency staff, the possibility of dismissing staff without compensation in case of suspension of teaching has been eliminated. Other interventions concern AFAM (High Artistic, Musical and Choreutica) and university training. I could continue on many other issues, which have also been included, for example the environmental sector. At last, after so long and after unanimously the Commission territory, environment, environmental goods had pushed for the approval of the bill containing this norm, an Italian anomaly has been eliminated, which set a percentage that cannot be exceeded for the use of the second raw material, for example in bottles, so we can finally have entirely recycled products. This is therefore a very important rule for the circular economy. Certainly we are still in the perspective of the emergency and are extending bonuses and measures, which are however indispensable. Colleagues, go tell a cassintegrato that he can no longer have the integration fund! Beyond propaganda, which can be done here, these are absolutely central measures. Having said that, however, I want to be very frank: this measure could have had additional innovative and important elements and it is not just a question of resources. Beyond the simplification decree that we have approved, we are in a situation, which also concerns Parliament's prerogatives. I want to address this issue with serenity, but I believe that there is a question of sovereignty, linked to the prerogatives of Parliament, which cannot be accepted. In my thanks I wanted to acknowledge the great work that is being done in the Commissions and in Parliament in general, and it is good to say it loud and clear. There have been amendments adopted by the Commission, apart from the fact that the presenters were majority or opposition, but we are regularly seeing interventions, in the context of the maxi amendment, also by the General Accounting Office of the State, which in some way cancel work and convergence. These are certainly not extra legem interventions, but this is still a reflection that we must make. Parliament has already been subjected to repeated examination of decree-laws and to the continuing position of the question of trust in their conversion. Emergency or non-emergency, this is a drift that has been taken for a very long time. Turning also to my colleagues in the 5 Star Movement, the problem was obviously not so much to reduce parliamentarians, but to restore centrality and sovereignty to Parliament, respecting its prerogatives, and to prevent the Chambers from carrying out their activities fully in the conversion of decree-laws and in the vote on the issue of trust. Above all, we assume responsibility for this decree-law, the amendments and its conversion. We take full responsibility for the citizens when we make a series of proposals and intervene, for good or for bad, but as elected by the citizens we are dealing with other mechanisms that are difficult to explain. I would also like to address Mr Calderoli, because we are in the process of revising Parliament's Rules of Procedure, because the Rules of Procedure will also allow us to refocus on the work of the Commissions and Parliament itself. Otherwise we will always find ourselves in a difficult situation. I now come to a number of questions, which are before us: we will soon have to deal with the examination of the budget law and the recovery plan. You have often listened to my speeches on this. Of course we need a vision, a broad planning, a strategy and to focus on priorities: these were fundamental decrees to buffer the emergency and today we are all under test to give a future to this country, remembering what its priorities are. Much has been said about failure: of course we need other resources, but we also need to find ways to spend them; There too, however, we continue to have stitches, laces and bureaucratic laces that prevent us from doing so. My amendment concerning parks, for example, was not tabled to give him some money, but to allow the maintenance of the internal areas, which are depopulated; not to spend more money, therefore, but to allow the use of the resources that already exist. This is the responsibility of the majority and the opposition: here there should be the pride of a Parliament that knows how to give directions and map the way and I believe that the Government would also have the advantage of using these resources. I repeat that the time has come to change the way and to ensure that, when we debate, we approve the rules and take responsibility for what we vote, that is. and there are no other interventions, which do not involve the same responsibilities towards the country and the citizens. We will vote in favour of the trust and conversion of the decree-law in question, with the hope that it will be the final tail and an advance to put in place a much larger project, such as the one we are called to discuss, launch, implement and bring to Europe. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u23	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u25	NANNICINI (PD). Mr President, the decree we are about to convert contains important measures to support the income and recovery of the economic activity of the people and businesses most affected by the economic and social crisis triggered by the pandemic. That is why the Democratic Party is convinced of a measure that tries not to leave anyone alone in the face of the effort not to get crushed under the dramatic effects of the crisis. However, the satisfaction of closing with the conversion of this decree-law must not make us lose sight of the perspective in which we must insert it and the enormous challenge that we still face, that is to leave no one alone in the struggle of the change that awaits us. The decree-law under consideration, as has been pointed out, is the last in a series of important interventions, both in legislative and financial terms, to guarantee workers' income and liquidity to companies and to invest in public services in the face of the Covid emergency, starting from health and school. But now we need a new phase: we need to close the emergency phase, with interventions rightly inspired by a compensation logic, that is, aimed at compensating people and businesses for the costs of the crisis, and to open a design, which puts at the centre a sustained and sustainable growth and social justice. Just starting from this requirement, I want to remind you of some novelties of this decree-law, which is true that it still moves in an emerging logic and compensation, but it contains some seeds that, if well interpreted, can help us for the challenges that await us. On the job, we renew the emergency integration fund for eighteen weeks, nine of which without additional costs for businesses and nine with graduated costs on the decline of activity: for the series - if we interpret the message well - that you can not stand still, we are going out of the intensive welfare care and the state there, but you have to go back to planning how to create work. In order to help job creation, the Decree-Law introduces new forms of decontribution for permanent recruitment, seasonal workers and companies that stop using the Integration Fund: for the series - again, if we interpret the message well - that now is the time for temporary measures, that help those who can return to create work in a situation that is still very difficult, but waiting for structural intervention on labour costs, welfare and training, that we cannot postpone beyond. In the decree-law there is also a two-month extension for NASPI and Dis-Coll for the unemployed and the extension of the Covid allowances for the weak subjects without other social shock absorbers, as well as a new and important financial investment on the fund for new skills, to put at the center of the processes of corporate transformation training and territorial and corporate bargaining. For the series, again, if we interpret the message well: we invest in skills and quality of work, waiting for an overall and universal reform of welfare, already worrying about financing a training that is not the excuse to give other disguised subsidies, but a quality and certified investment on the new skills that workers serve. There is also an important intervention, which is strongly strengthened in the parliamentary passage at the request of many groups, in favour of fragile, immunodepressed workers, cancer patients and groups at risk in the face of the pandemic. There are interventions in favour of companies and professionals most in difficulty, with the strengthening of tax credits for the tourist and spa sector, the exemption of the second IMU instalment for tourism and entertainment and the postponement of payments for ISA subjects in difficulty. There is an agenda, signed by all the majority groups, which commits the Government to immediately open a confrontation with the Regions for the reorganization and finalisation of the reform of the chambers of commerce in this new phase; an agenda on which the Democratic Party is now waiting for concrete action. Another seed to be gathered from this parliamentary passage is the method used in the Budget Committee, under the careful guidance of the rapporteurs, Mr Missa and Mr Errani, and Mr Pesco, who has allowed, more than so many words on the centrality of Parliament, to do everything possible to improve the measure in the given situation, including the oppositions, which we must thank for the constructive spirit shown in the Commission, despite the correct and sacrosanct distinction of roles. And this despite yesterday's drooling, which saw some useful speeches skipped, already discussed and voted by the Commission; a drooling of method that must prompt us to ask ourselves some questions and also find some answers for the continuation of our work. Having said that, one minute after the conversion of the decree-law Government and majority must wonder how to germinate these seeds, in order to move from an emergent phase to a design phase. Italy has a huge task, because, just as it has been a pioneer in Europe in the management of the health emergency, it can play a pioneering role on a design use of the resources that we will mobilize in the coming months and in the coming years, where design is not for summing up a thousand projects and a thousand streams in which resources are lost, but for the ability to put in place a project and a vision. To do this, you need to be aware that money is important, but it is not enough. For every euro that we spend we will have to put on the table an idea: a euro, an idea. If we invest a euro on school building - and we have to put a lot of it - we have to put a new idea of school, that rethinks the spaces and the times to open up to territory and third sector, to new activities, to become educational community, to fight educational poverty and to promote social mobility. If we invest a euro on health - and we have to put a lot of it, using all the available funding lines - we have to put a new idea of health, in order to reach the lives of people, especially the most fragile ones, with a strong network of territorial services, not only hospital (my colleague Boldrini remembered it yesterday) and investing on telemedicine. If we invest a euro on support for families with dependent children - and we have to put so many with the reform of the single allowance - we have to put a new idea of sharing the choice of having children within the couple; not a choice that women alone have to reconcile with work, but a choice that they have to share. So let's talk about compulsory paternity leave, facilitated couple part-time; let's put an idea of sharing to strengthen the freedom of all, men and women. If we invest a euro on the guarantee of income for those in difficulty - and we have to put so many here - let's put a new idea of welfare, a universal welfare that helps everyone, employees and self-employed, poor and unemployed, but with different tools and integrated services of lifelong learning. I will conclude on the recipients of the interventions, which must be more and more planning and not emergent; on the objective that we must bear in mind when we draw the new phase. There is undoubtedly the digital and ecological transition to put at the heart of public and private investment, as has been mentioned in the discussion, but there are also the great flywheels of inclusive growth that we need to know how to identify in the world of work; again, throughout the world of work, employee, self-employed and entrepreneurial. These flywheels are first and foremost two: the work of young people and women. We must stop talking about young people and women in our conferences and start putting them at the heart of our spending measures and reforms. At international level, an appeal, half of it, started, taken up in Italy as the right means by a network of associations and personalities to ensure that half of the European Union's funds reach the work and opportunities of women. Let's not just sign that appeal, but let's politically plan how to put it into practice, gathering all the social and institutional actors around a national plan for women's employment and providing us with cognitive tools to assess the gender impact of each measure, as also calls for an opinion approved by the Senate's work commission, because the right means requires proper attention to gender assessment and impact. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that, in the face of a terrible and visible enemy, the virus, the majority and the government have also been able to make difficult choices. Now, faced with an equally terrible but less visible enemy, such as the economic and social decline of our country, we need equally difficult choices, but above all we need choices. Choices over which we will not be measured by counting the "likes" on Facebook tomorrow, but weighing judgements on our ability to promote economic growth and social justice the day after tomorrow. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u26	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u27	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u28	PICHETTO FRATIN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, first of all let me thank my colleagues from the 5th Commission, the rapporteurs from Errani, Manca, Calandrini for the opposition, and the representatives of the Government who took turns in the Commission (the Vice-Presidents from Castelli, who were present last night, and Misiani, the undersecretaries from Malpezzi and Castaldi). Thanksgiving is not only formality, because however I believe it is fundamental, at a time like this for the country, beyond the role of majority and opposition, to address issues, also and certainly with different ideas compared to the overall vision, but with clarity of relationship and seriousness. I have to say that this, within the framework of the 5th Commission, has taken place, albeit with critical moments and, if we want, with deep disagreement on certain choices, which, in my opinion, is the basis for dealing with a moment such as the present one. This morning we had the news of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan with the forecast decrease of 9 percent of gross domestic product; then a recovery of 6. I personally hope that the decline in gross domestic product will remain at 9% during 2020, and I hope so because I fear it will be more than 9%. That's my fear, so the hope is that the government has made correct estimates. Of course, in all this, there is the commitment to look to the future because anyway the decree-law that we have faced still concerns the past. I would like to remind you that the two thirds of the decree-law are dedicated to the emergency and concern essentially the Cassa Integrazione, so it is still a part of all that emergency that has seen us commit previously 75 billion euros of deviation. In our country the demand is low and the savings are still growing (and the growth of savings indicates the perception of insecurity present in the country); there is a whirlwind chase of norms, unfortunately, for which we are also responsible, but it is also an attempt to search for the most correct solutions; unfortunately the bureaucracy is still dominant at the national level; there is that boom of the third quarter, which instead Minister Gualtieri had announced to us a few months ago (and this is a criticism that we want to express); the collapse of tourism looms. So we ask ourselves the question: do we continue with a welfare mechanism or do we seriously want to try choices (no one has the certainty about the actions we must take) to direct change? There is too much fragmentation, too many bonuses, even lack the implementing measures of the previous decrees-laws: hundreds of implementing measures of the previous decrees are missing. The theme is: What is the vision of the future? The line comes, made also by my colleagues this morning: are the 9 million debitory folders coming on October 15? We realize that the state must take action for recovery, but I would also like to remind you that for six months this opposition has urged you to make a reasonable plan, not to continue with the water in the throat to extend by eight days in eight days. [[Applause]] That was the question. They must protest and threaten the strike some doctors accountants, then get an extension of a month, with relative interests of tax payments, not for everyone, but only for those who have lost a third of the turnover? [[Applause]] The problem concerns not only companies, but the VAT lot management system, which had automatically stopped at 16 August and then 16 September. Colleagues, we must have the courage to look further, we cannot continue with mechanisms such as those contained in the decree on our examination. There is a myriad of provisions; some certainly also find our full sharing, but let's remember what this decree-law has of characteristic: it refers to a million less workers. Do we realize that citizenship income does not work or, at least, does it not work for the active labour policy part? It worked at the welfare level, we admit it, because somehow it represented the recovery money that we recalled six months ago, but there is still a dullness in not wanting some flexibility in the labour market. Vouchers are a mechanism for regulating and entering the labour market: it is an active labour policy. [[Applause]] Work is growing in black. Do we want to be complicit in this and then denounce him? That's the thing. We are to solve. The excess of ideology does damage. Then there is the issue of liquidity, which is somewhat overwhelmed; however, we must intervene on the guarantee fund at every measure or correct part of the audience. On the local authorities, a part has been deleted, then put back, then changed. I would also refer to Mr De Petris' earlier remarks on the mechanisms for operating and regulating within the Commission and Parliament. We denounce that you do not provide us with an overall design. On the part of the majority there is no overall design. Who speaks to you is in favour of the use of the ESM: do you want to tell us if the intervention in health care will be done using advantageous rates, with less constraints than the recovery fund that we all propagate? [[Applause]] Do we want to take this opportunity to modernise our health system and create all those stabilisations that are necessary in a system that exploded forty years ago and that, having employed with an old age average, risks at a time like this to collapse, in a year or two, even in terms of employment? That is the issue that needs to be addressed. Majority colleagues, have the debate you want, but bring a proposal. A structural design is needed for the country. Colleagues, I returned home Saturday morning, after we spent the night in the Commission, and I struggled to reach the territory from which I came: bridges fell and landslides fell. The devastation that has occurred is due, on the one hand, to the imponderable (climate change clearly produces effects) but on the other hand to the maintenance. In recent years no longer has been maintained provincial roads because it had been decided to eliminate the Provinces, without thinking that the provincial roads remained and were not eliminated. [[Applause]] We must also reconcile the civil life of people with nature and consider the fact that if the beehives can no longer be cleaned the shrubs present in them become three, four or five meters high and when these floods arrive they are thrown down and make a barrier. The situation is no longer sustainable and balance is needed. Minister Costa cannot say that it is the fault of the municipalities. The municipalities were obliged to comply with the Stability Pact and with a number of constraints which they could not violate. [[Applause]] Moreover, they lacked the technicians, who could not hire to carry out the subsequent actions. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been talk of a turning point, but a turning point means having the courage to look to the future and have a plan for the future. In television debates there is talk of an expansive maneuver, but it has a long meaning, which means promoting a path that gives Italians security and allows the courage of investments. We must make the public part grow with infrastructure and the private part with private investment and face the challenge that each of us has, namely the challenge of life and the future. For these reasons, we can only declare our vote against this measure. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u29	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u30	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u31	RIVOLTA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank my colleagues in the Commission, the rapporteurs who have tried to promote the debate in civil and constructive terms, as well as the members of the government who were quickly available, although they were very busy holding meetings to try to find a balance in a majority which has very different positions. Thank you, by the way, for me. This quarrel and the failure to find the square have perhaps weighed more than other times. Once again, we reduced ourselves to voting on the amendments at night, because we could not find a solution to the issues on which it was agreed to find convergences (which in some cases were also achieved with the opposition). However - I quote only this example, but it was rather heavy - nothing has been done on the chambers of commerce. [[Applause]] Not only that, because some of the amendments tabled by the majority went against the wishes of the Minister and other parties, there was a sort of police station, with the presence of the Leader of the Movimento 5 Stars and two Subsecretaries, I would say, quite pressing, to resolve the issue. In the end, the majority came out with a rather ridiculous agenda. But this was an issue to be addressed. On the reform of the chambers of commerce we have always been opposed, but we have tabled more than one amendment on this subject, but of common sense: the chambers of commerce which have balanced budgets and are virtuous may not come together, because in our opinion autonomy means responsibility and work well done, but everything has been swept away. I assure you that the atmosphere was really very heavy, but we stayed and agreed to work at night, because in the measure there were important measures for workers. We have done this for these people, because objectively the majority, who carry out the work in a confused and disorderly way - we have seen it in recent months - certainly does not deserve it. So I say this right now: we have repeatedly said that we are responsible, we use common sense and we try to help, but time is over, because once, twice, three times is fine, but you have shown to us that you really oppose an ideological blockade, so all proposals of common sense are rejected in an a priori way. I am talking, for example, about vouchers in tourism and agriculture. Mr Pichetto Fratin has just said this: it is a proposal of common sense and it means giving work and doing black work. You can't do: deleted. The flat tax: canceled. They are all requests that come from the entrepreneurs or from those who open the shops; they are those who accept to have the risk of enterprise on their own head, on their own capitals and are the same ones who give work; but you do not care, no matter all this! [[Applause]] And what about peer schools? They are children of a minor god. Do you know the value of equal public school? It is not a B-grade school and should be considered in another way. Then again, the proposals on dry coupons and the long-standing issue of historical precariousness: how can we not think of using teachers who have been working in schools for many years to stem an emergency such as that of support? How can teachers of support for children with disabilities be continuously replaced by alternates, insufficient themselves? It's cruel, and families report it. [[Applause]] And again, our proposal to extend the decontribution to the South to all the national territory. For Christ's sake, let's not even talk about it, because other areas affected by difficulties or particularly desolate areas from the economic point of view are not worthy. Again, we had proposed incentives for the automotive industry. They are all important, positive and positive issues that have been excluded, regardless of which is absolutely not good. The concern is that debt has increased once again, even with the EUR 25 billion that has been put into this measure. All right, we all wanted to increase the debt for an expansive maneuver in the past few years, but that was not possible. The Covid emergency has made it possible, I would say the Covid tragedy because we do not forget all the dead that have been there and how much we must all equip ourselves to stem a possible second wave. These billions must be used well, so that they can generate new economies. However, we cannot wait for 2022 and 2023 because the emergency of those who have to give dinner to their children, pay the rent or live dignifiedly (at the very least, but live) must face it now. But the integration fund will end and so how will we move forward? As I said before, we must help those who give the job and accept to risk for it. We have also thought of people who have fragility, reasoning about the increase of the fund for those with problems and autistic spectrum disorders. We have only been able to do this for 2020, but we have all made a commitment together so that these funds can be paid out from this year onwards. The problem of families who have children with this disorder is in fact enormous and we realize it every day in the municipalities when we have to assure the educational school to these children and these children. The number is rising incredibly and families cannot be left alone. Another proposal that we have had to turn into an agenda is that of deductions for those suffering from multiple sclerosis, another growing disease that really changes life not only to those affected, but to the whole family. These are important issues, but I want to talk more about other proposals that we will have to deal with with the recovery fund. We said in the Commission that we would talk about certain issues in the recovery fund and the recovery plan. I am referring, for example, to reshoring; we must ensure that companies return, give jobs and produce in Italy. That's how we grow our country. [[Applause.]] Not only that; I have the issue at heart and I wonder why in the provision, having at disposal an important figure, at least for 2020, you, who have made the law on universal civil service, have not allowed 50,000 young people - which was the initial number - to leave with an instrument that has proved all its effectiveness? Why didn't you want to help the 18 to 28-year-olds in this experience? You have made it; do I have to say the law that I am of the opposition? I know the value of this service. [[The microphone automatically switches off]] You don't believe it either, and it's crazy. My colleagues then spoke of difficulties and something that is jumping. The reading of the measure is done in one branch of Parliament, and trust is inevitably placed, but even with a single reading, we get to the last second, making mistakes. Last night we saw that we even had to bring the Commission together to remove from the maxi amendment of the articles on which observations had been made by the Accounting Office, with articles reworded even by the Ministry of Economics and Finance. Something's wrong; they can't get out the decrees, they're blowing the system. All right, it's a difficult time, I've always said it, but we have to gain efficiency without which everything we're doing will not take body. It is a gigantic problem that we have to face. But if all the confrontation is based solely on the fact that we say wrong things and therefore we have to dismantle everything we have done together (and therefore away with the security decrees, away with this and away with the other, away with the whole list of things I have told you) we will not go anywhere. Many times I have told you that you have to be responsible, fly higher and try to be as institutional as possible; since I think I have this mentality then I tell you that time is over and also in the light of what happened during the discussion of the decree, there will be no more common sense and understanding. We will use all the instruments that the Senate Rules offer us and contain to make a hard opposition. You will probably understand only this, probably in this case, if we had asked to vote on time and to do things in a certain way, the decree would have skipped. From now on we will do so, we will stick to the Rules of Procedure and to all the instruments to oppose them. I therefore call for the vote against yet another confidence because you do not deserve anything else; it is a bad measure and it has been a mess despite the fact that it has some important measures in it. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u32	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u33	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u34	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today we are called to express ourselves on Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August, a measure which, like others who preceded it, took shape after the pandemic shock and seeks to put immediate remedies to the benefit of many economic sectors. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the President of the Commission and all the members of the Commission. [[Applause]] In several cases these are sectors that, I would like to remind you, did not enjoy good health even before the lockdown and that were still suffering from the effects of the great crises of 2008 and 2012. The measures put in place with this decree are not only of protection, but aim to revive the economy and to reinforce the recovery action of the companies affected by the negative consequences of the epidemic. The measure puts in field 25 billion euros, which bring to 100 billion the total volume of the resources allocated between decree care Italy, decree I throw again and, precisely, decree August. We all have to recognise that these are very large resources, with intellectual honesty, apart from instrumental popula tions, which show that the Government and Parliament have made an extraordinary effort, both qualitatively and quantitatively, to combine protection measures but also forward-looking measures. Unfortunately, tourism is one of the most affected economic sectors. And it is precisely for this sector that the decree-law provides a fund for the catering industry. In fact, catering establishments that have suffered a loss of turnover, from March to June 2020, of at least 25%... [[blush]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u35	Please, gatherings would be prohibited. The dialogues and the ailments alongside the one who is intervening are a sign of poor respect for colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u36	LEONE (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. I said that catering establishments that have suffered a loss of turnover, from March to June 2020, of at least 25% compared to the same period of 2019 will be able to obtain a grant for the purchase of products from agricultural, food and wine chains from Italian raw materials. But there is also a non-refundable contribution for economic and commercial activities in the historic centres, in favour of exhibitors who recorded, in June 2020, a decrease in turnover compared to the same month of 2019, a tax credit of 60% of the rent, lease or concession and the exemption of the payment of the second instalment of the IMU of 2020 for certain categories of properties and tourist-receptive facilities. It is a measure that also pays attention to the world of sport, businesses, self-employed workers and non-commercial entities that invest in advertising campaigns, including sponsorships against leagues, professional sports companies and amateur sports companies and associations registered in the CONI register. They are granted a tax credit contribution of 50% of the investments made. A grant of 600 euros has been granted to workers in the same world of sport. As I said, in perfect line of continuity with the decree cure Italy and with the decree I throw again, also in the decree August there are measures of perspective: some instruments like the development contracts, the fund for the safeguard of the occupational levels and the continuation of the business activity, the voucher for the innovation, the fund IPCEI for the support to the enterprises that participate in the realization of important projects of European interest... ( [[Brusio. References by the President]] ). Refinancing of the Central Guarantee Fund was carried out in order to facilitate access to credit through the granting of a public guarantee and the extension of the moratorium on loans and loans (from 30 September 2020, the deadline is extended to 31 January 2021). The deadlines for tax and contribution payments suspended in the emergency phase have been reprogrammed, a fund has been provided for the personal training of housewives and housewives and a fund of three million euros for the training of those who care for people in need. The symbolic value of this measure is very important, because it gives importance to a work as essential as it is invisible, precisely what it consists in caring for people who are more in difficulty and providing for the home. Our homes are also crossed by the technological revolution and therefore digital training has become necessary to acquire new skills to be added to the traditional ones. I would also like to mention the EUR 3 million fund for Sicilian municipalities that is most involved in the management of migratory flows, in order to tackle the problem of landings in a concrete way. Colleagues, awaiting the substantial amounts of money coming from the European Union, which will enable us to relaunch the necessary investments in the country, today we are preparing to dismiss this 25 billion euro measure, which will comfort many economic operators and help them not to succumb to this totally unexpected crisis. We have come from a year in which the decree of urgency has characterized the work of the Government and consequently of Parliament. The August decree is the last expression of it in fact, but I wonder, beyond any controversy and political opposition: what could have been done before an emergency as sudden and changing as that of Covid-19? [[Applause]] I appeal to the opposition, who in various circumstances, both in the Finance and Treasury Committee of which I am a member and in this House this morning, complains that the Government does not listen to it: well, in just over 100 articles, 83 amendments are of the opposition. [[Applause]] I hope that you can reflect on this confidence and be consistent with what you have said this morning, because this Government is listening and interpreting the needs of its citizens to the best of its ability, in a climate of cooperation in which this case of the epidemic is leading us to intervene in this House today. It is for all these reasons that I declare on behalf of the Movimento 5 Group the vote in favour. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u37	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u38	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u39	PARAGO (Mixed). If my customers don't pay me, I can't pay my suppliers either, and so I got myself into a spiral from which I couldn't recover. I came to a crossroads: pay taxes or feed my family. I took the second road. I had no choice, what should I have done? To speak is the Treviso craftsman of fifty-five years who last Tuesday tried to launch himself from a window of the court of Treviso (stopped by those present), after having known that his house risked foreclosure for the judicial action initiated by four of his creditors. If you want to know what 9 million debitory folders mean, well, that's the example. Of course, if a VIP is positive at the Covid it immediately ends on the front page, the contagions are updated in real time, while these stories end - and there end their cycle - in the local newspapers, because this is unfortunately Italy you do not see. Then there are the bills of light and gas, which are the most shameful in Europe for the crazy expenses related to the charges of system (but you are still in the August decree and, as in August it is hot and dark later, at the end of the day you care little). I think we have reached the limit once again when we see that Parliament, made up of representatives of the people, is cut off. I have therefore miserably and sadly related to the stories of this Italy and I have allowed myself to bring them to your attention, saying no to your decree-law. 11.14 a.m.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u40	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u41	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u42	DE FALCO (Mixed). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the statement I am about to read is challenging for myself, for my colleague Elena Fattori and for my colleague Saverio De Bonis. Any collegiate body, even the assembly of a condominium, requires the agenda to be detailed and the issues to be dealt with, under penalty of nullity, in such a way that the individual member is placed in a position to know in order to deliberate and participate in an active and responsible way. On Saturday 3 October, at 5 a.m., the 5th Senate Commission instructed the rapporteur to report to the House on the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 104, which has been extensively amended in relation to the original text. So we will soon be voting on the confidence announced for days. The text of the bill was deposited last night, but I felt that the 5th Commission still had to lose hands on mistakes. This situation forces us to vote for confidence, in the dark, and it recurs on time, because it is a consequence of the unconstitutional twist of the function of the decree of urgency which, according to the Constitution, Mr President (and thank you for listening), should have an object, if not unitary, at least homogeneous. As well as, with respect to the decree-law, the law of conversion should be homogeneous. For these reasons, in September, the President of the Republic, promulgating the decree simplifications, warned the need to reiterate that, during the examination of the laws of conversion, there can be no clearly heterogeneous rules with respect to the object and the purposes of the emergency measures. In fact, this practice deprives individual Members, through the mechanism of confidence, of the real possibility of examining measures and their effects in the legal system, and therefore of the possibility of improving the measure. Under these conditions, Parliament cannot seriously vote in science and conscience. Already the Constitutional Court, with reference to the approval of the 2018 budget, which was led to the approval of the Senate, and of the Chamber, then, with a procedure that highlights a certain procedural continuity between the two Count Governments, had to stigmatize that those procedural modalities can in concrete way eliminate the constitutional prerogatives of the individual parliamentarians with respect to the function of representation that he has of the nation that is attributed to him and that, without the assumption of responsibility and knowledge, does not find correct expression. The relapsing constitutional violation today obliges us, despite the goodness of some measures contained in the measure, to abstain from voting for a sense of responsibility towards part of the Italians who need those provisions: so as not to harm them therefore. Without being able to assess the merit of the text in depth and with awareness of its reflections on the order, we do not believe that it is serious to give our vote and our imprimatur to this text of law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u43	We shall therefore proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u44	I refer to the vote on amendment 1,900 (correct text), tabled by the Government, entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust. I recall that pursuant to Rule 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the vote on the matter of trust will take place by roll-call vote. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will be able to vote exclusively from his own post, declaring his own vote. I remember that it is necessary to avoid gatherings at the center of the hemicycle. I would ask you to avoid gatherings at the centre of the Chamber, as I have just said. The senators for trust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I now draw by lot the name of the senator from whom the roll call will begin. (The name of Senator Auddino is drawn by lot.) I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal, starting with Senator Auddino. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. The senators answered: Abbot, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Botto, Bress, Buccarella Country, Carbone, Casini, Castaldi, Castiello, Catalfo, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Incipini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Corrado, Crimi, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Di Nicola, Floridia Gallicchio, Garavini, Durnwaldo Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fedeli, Fenu, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Floridia, Floridia Gallicchio, Donno, Garna, Garuferipolio, Gir. Senators say no: Aimi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augussori Bagnai, Balboni, Barachini, Barbaro, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Binetti, Bonino, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calandrini, Calderoli, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Casolati, Centinario, Ciampolillo, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Carlo, De Vecchis, Doria Faggi, Fazzolari, Ferrero, Ferro, Floris, Fregolent, Fusco Gallone, Gasparri, Martelli, Giammanco, Giarrusso, Giro, Grassi Iannoni, Iwobi La Pietra, Lucidi, Lunesu Maffoni, Malan, Mallegni, Mangialavori, Marin, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Martelli, Marti, Maersi, Maersi, Marti, Maersi, Mosini, Maersi, Mosini, Mosini, Parsini, Parandi. (Senators De Bonis, De Falco and Fattori declare that they do not participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by appeal of amendment 1,900 (correct text), entirely replacing the single article of the bill of conversion into law of Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020 on the approval of which the Government has raised the question of trust: [[Senators present 269 Senators voting 265 Majority 133 Favorable 148 Contrari 117]] The Senate approves. [[Applause.]] It therefore precludes all amendments and agendas relating to the text of Decree-Law No 104. Waiting for Minister Hope to arrive at 12:30, I suspend the session. (The sitting was suspended at 12.15 p.m. and resumed at 12.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u45	The next item is: "Communication from the Minister of Health on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to avoid the spread of the Covid-19 virus, pursuant to Article 2, paragraph 1, of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020, as amended by Conversion Law No 35 of 2020" I call the Health Minister, Mr Hope.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I always consider the time for parliamentary debate to be important, as laid down in Decree-Law No 19 of 2020. And I consider this particularly in this passage of the epidemiological crisis that we are experiencing, which is constantly evolving, and I think that the comparison in Parliament on data analysis and on the vision of the situation can only do good, enrich our democracy and also help us with the measures that we must put in place. As on other occasions when I had the opportunity to confront the Chambers, before arriving at the evaluations, in particular on the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, I would like to start from the state of the art and the situation of the scenario in which we are, and therefore from evaluations all of an epidemiological nature, to try to evaluate the most appropriate moves to build the reaction of our country to the current situation. I want to reason around the international and European framework and of course the numbers of Italy, which - as is well known - are monitored day by day, and weekly a report is built from a directional booth of the Ministry of Health, the Regions and the Higher Institute of Health. The picture I believe is in everyone's eyes: the global one is still very complex (we have exceeded 35 million confirmed and certified cases worldwide); as is well known, in recent days the number of one million broken lives has been exceeded and, therefore, a million people have lost their lives. This is the world data we are dealing with. On the other hand, the European Centre for Disease Monitoring and Control every week offers us a precise and precise analysis of epidemiological developments in every single country of the Union. These are then official and formal data of the European centre for disease prevention and control (ECDC), which are built around the number of infections in each country out of 100,000 inhabitants over a two-week period. This consideration allows you to have a ranking of countries, to understand where the virus circulates more and where less. The ECDC's latest report, which I had the opportunity to see yesterday, gives us some numbers that I believe are useful for instructing the debate that must be held in Parliament today: Spain, 319 cases out of 100,000 inhabitants in the last fourteen days; France, 246; Holland, 243; Belgium, 220; Great Britain, 163. Italy, in the last two weeks, had 45 cases out of 100,000 inhabitants. These are numbers that photograph the situation in Europe, but that, when compared in an evolutionary dynamic of the last few weeks, indicate that in all these European countries there is a very significant trend to the growth and worsening of epidemiological data. Our country, with the number 45, is still far below the great majority of European ones, but the trend is growing and requires us very much attention. My opinion - and this is the starting point of the reasoning I want to offer to the Senate Assembly - is that we are at a stage change in the European epidemiological evolution and of our country. And when I talk about a phase change, I mean that in all the countries that I have tried quickly to quote, up to a certain point, that is up to the previous phase, we have had a tendency to widen the measures and to work for a return to normality, but with this phase change we return to intervene with measures that have a restrictive connotation. The worsening is taking place in all European countries, no one excluded, even if the numbers - as you have seen - are different. The numbers objectively tell us that Italy at this moment, together with Germany, is the great European country that has the best data. But, beware, trouble to deceive yourself and trouble to think that, on the basis of these data, we are out of danger or danger. It would be wrong, deeply wrong. As France arrives to have 17,000 confirmed cases in one day; while Britain (another great European country) has 12,500 cases only on yesterday's day and while in some major European cities (I think of the city of Paris) yesterday it was decided, with the national government's provision, to close all the bars, swimming pools and gyms and (I think of the city of Madrid) already for several days there is a cautious form of lockdown, and more than a million people are told that you can not leave home except to go to school or work, we must not imagine that, faced with a description of the climate and the European situation of this nature, we can feel out of danger. Italian data indicate the same trend, even if with reduced numbers compared to what we see in other countries. The trend is clear, clear and unmistakable: our numbers have grown for nine consecutive weeks. And with reality, as always, you have to deal with it. To come to Italy (I will also quote some issues related to our country), there is a big difference compared to the previous phase. As you will remember very well, in the previous phase, the most difficult and dramatic one in March and April, we had a substantial concentration of the epidemic in a very collected and very clearly identified territorial area. In the difficult months of March and April, and then also in the next phase, the epidemic was concentrated territorially in a piece of country, in particular Lombardy and some very important Provinces of Northern Italy. In the rest of the country the penetrating capacity of the virus was objectively very limited and the numbers of the serological analysis that we carried out thanks to the precious work of the Istat and the Red Cross gave us this photograph. It is no coincidence that, on the level of that serological analysis that was completed in July, Lombardy had a 7 percent of people tested with antibodies in plasma, while all the Southern regions - for example - were below one percent. Now there is a great novelty: growth is widespread in all the territories of our country. At this moment there is no problem on a territory, while the rest of the country may feel somehow out of danger. The numbers are smaller, but they grow significantly in every corner of our country. This calls for great caution, great attention and a special commitment from all the institutions. My opinion is that, on the basis of these evaluations, we will need even more that constant, continuous and - I believe - fruitful link that there has been in the previous months between the Regions and the State. Yesterday evening there was a meeting with all the representatives of the Italian regions and there will be another meeting in the next few hours, immediately after the closing of this parliamentary debate, to share the important measures we have before us. The regions may have more restrictive measures - some are already doing so - but it is particularly crucial at this time to have a very significant level of coordination between pieces of republican institutions. In essence, on the basis of these first evaluations, I want to say that Italy today has an advantage over other countries: the sacrifices made, the behaviour of people, the harsh measures implemented in our national community have allowed Italy today to have lower numbers than those of many other European countries, but we are not out of danger. Let me also say here, once again - these are statements I have already made - that the result that the country has achieved with difficulty today is not the merit of a part, not of the Government or of a Region, but of the whole of our national community, which we must try to keep together. [[Applause]] It is thanks - let me say it again - first of all to our National Health Service, to the women and men of our National Health Service, who we will never stop thanking for the extraordinary work they have done and who continue to do every day. [[Applause.]] I use the same clarity and clarity on a fundamental point of the debate that I believe we must make today, namely that the results - including some positive results that I have tried to nuclearize in the difference from other European realities - are never acquired forever. We must be very clear and tell the truth about this: the results are achieved every day and are being called into question every day. That is why I believe that the line that should guide us in the coming hours and weeks should once again be the line of prudence, the line that has guided us to date to these effects and to the present results. For this basic reason, for this fundamental reason, I think that the choice of the government - already made public by the President of the Council of Ministers - is right to want to extend the state of emergency to 31 January 2021. I believe this act is fully in line with the epidemiological phase we are going through. The institutional scaffolding connected to the state of emergency has allowed us to manage the phase we have been through so far, and it is built around the centrality of civil protection, its powers of ordinance, the role of the extraordinary commissioner and of course the fundamental role of the Scientific Technical Committee, which has accompanied us punctually in the choices we have made at the level of government, at the level of the Regions and also in the aid to the social subjects regarding the measures in the phase of coexistence in which we still are. My opinion is that, despite a thousand difficulties, even within a complexity that no one ever thinks of not considering adequately, the institutional scaffolding that we have given ourselves since the first days of the health crisis is a model that has worked and that has allowed us to act more quickly in the face of the needs that have arisen. Let me also remind you here that, since 2004, there have been 154 statements from the state of emergency in our country, and on 84 occasions the state of emergency has been extended. If I am allowed a further reflection, I would like to point out as usual, in the history of our country, the state of emergency is built on events that have a very punctual temporal determination. Usually the state of emergency is declared for an earthquake, for a flood, that is for events that begin and end on the temporal plane in a punctually defined context. In this case we are objectively faced with a new, unprecedented fact in the history of our country: not an event that begins and ends in a short and defined time frame, but a dynamic event, which began at a given moment and which obviously does not close with an ease and limitedness, which can be comparable to other types of events. For these reasons, I believe that the choice we are about to make to extend the state of emergency until 31 January is appropriate and appropriate. I want to come quickly to the measures of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, which is also the formal reason for my presence here, on the basis of the indications contained in the bill of conversion of Decree-Law No 19 of 2020; as is well known, with that measure Parliament asked the Government, before the adoption of any decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, to be able to have a comparison, also to assume the guidelines of Parliament itself. Within the framework of the next decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, the government's orientation is to continue to focus on the three fundamental measures, which we have now made the three guiding rules, of the anti-Covid-19 initiative. The three basic rules are those that we have learned in recent months as golden rules to try to counter the Covid-19. The first is the use of masks. The use of masks is the first essential rule; the entire world scientific community believes that this is the main tool with which to try to counter the spread of the virus. The government's orientation is to extend its use, clearly strengthening also this message to the country, even in places and open spaces, regardless of the hourly limits, which have been in force so far. We believe that this is a suitable measure, appropriate, that can help us fight the virus and that it also gives a positive message to the country regarding the necessary raising of the threshold of attention in this new phase that I have tried to indicate. In a particular way, allow me to say it, it becomes particularly decisive to insist on the use of masks on all occasions when you meet people who are not living together. The data we have seen in recent weeks indicate that the highest level of spread of contagion is among the closest relationships, personal relationships, friendly relationships, family relationships. So the message must be very clear and very clear: on every occasion when you can cross a person who is not living under the same roof it is essential to use the mask, which is the first weapon we have to fight the virus. The second fundamental rule, as you know very well, is that of at least one metre apart and the prohibition of assembly. This too is a rule that we must try to enforce as much as possible. The rule is already in force, so there is no need for further regulatory action on this area, but I believe that instead there is a need - and it is the Government's intention to produce an effort on this ground - to raise the level of attention. Indeed, the rules on assembly exist, but we must increase the level of controls so that the existing rules are fully and fully respected. The third point of these essential rules has to do with compliance with the basic hygiene standards and, in particular, with hand washing. Let me also remind you that these are essential rules shared by the entire international scientific community. It has nothing to do with politics, it has nothing to do with the right, it has nothing to do with the left: they are essential rules that the world scientific community offers us and I believe that we should all follow them without distinction. It would not make sense to distinguish itself on a scientific indication, which today appears to be the strongest weapon to try to stand up against the contagion. Respecting these rules is really essential because it can enable us to manage this transition phase. Managing it means above all, from my point of view, creating conditions above all so that the structures of the National Health Service cannot suffer too much pressure, because the numbers of the contagion obviously have an impact on our hospitals and on the work of our health personnel and that is where you can trigger a dynamic that can then become difficult to control. Again, these are numbers, because numbers matter and need to help us in the work we have to do. Today in Italy there are 58,900 people tested positive. It is a significant number, but clearly lower than in the past. However, in order to get an idea of the trend, I like it and it is worth remembering that only two months (so on August 6, because today we are on October 6) in Italy there were 12,600 positive people. So, in terms of people's positivity, within sixty days (i.e. two months) we go from 12,000 to nearly 60,000 people. This is a significant growth. We have 3,487 people hospitalized in our hospital facilities with symptoms and 323 beds in intensive care occupied because of the Covid. These numbers are clearly sustainable by the National Health Service. Among other things, as a Government, Parliament and Regions, we have done a job to strengthen the National Health Service. I have told you on several occasions that we have allocated more resources to the National Health Service in the last five months than in the last five years. On intensive therapies, for example, the so-called relaunch decree, which the Houses have converted, has arranged an investment such as to increase beds by 115 percent. This is a job that we are doing in full harmony with the regions. However, I provide these numbers because we have to have a clear trend: in Italy, at the most difficult time, there were over 4,000 beds occupied by people because of Covid. Today, which we are at 323, it is clear that we are doing much better than the most difficult months, but we must not pretend that there is another truth, because during the summer months we were at 30 seats in the intensive care, while today we are at 323. This means that we have a situation that is sustainable at the moment, but there is a tendency that needs to be analysed with the utmost attention, which requires us to be very careful and mature. Among other things, an important novelty of this different season of the Covid, of this second wave phase in which the whole of Europe is evidently found, is the age of the infected. One of the elements of Covid's minor impact on health facilities has to do with the median age of people who are infected. At this moment in Italy the median age is 41 years. In the most difficult phase, which is what we experienced at the beginning of spring, the median age was between sixty-five and seventy years and, in a few days, was even over seventy years. It is clear that this is a fundamental difference because the Covid does not have the same effect, in terms of relapse and weight on health pressure, on people of younger age compared to those who, on the other hand, have a few more years. However, from this point of view too, there is a tendency: in August the median age had reached thirty-one years, while now we are forty-one years old. Thus, even in the median age of the population, the trend of the last few weeks is of a significant growth which must be observed with great attention. There is no doubt that in these hours - especially from here to the coming autumn and winter months, which are not easy (I will stop at the end) - we need to keep the highest possible attention especially on fragile subjects, but it is evident that within the intrafamily relationships it is very easy that even from the younger generations the virus can transfer to the less young ones. Again, in these hours we are paying as much attention as possible to the schools and the challenge that the country is facing of the reopening of schools. Among other things, in this House on several occasions, a subject that I believe is shared between the majority and the opposition was that of the need for special attention to be paid to school issues and for them to be reopened safely. I think it was an important and fair choice to start schools again, but it is clear that we need monitoring that is as careful as possible. It is clear that we have not spent enough time to make a final and complete judgment. As is well known, schools, in a major part of the country, reopened on September 14, but in another significant part they reopened only in the last decade of September. The first data we receive and the first analyses that come to us in a particular way from the Higher Institute of Health show a substantial hold on the world of school. It is not the school at this time the most problematic place in terms of the transfer and spread of the contagion. Allow me here to express a feeling of gratitude for the extraordinary work, in a very difficult and unprecedented climate for all, which has been done in a particular way by the teachers, the principals, the school staff and also by the families and parents who are faced with unprecedented problems. [[Applause]] No one has the magic wand, no one thinks they have perfection in their hands. It is clear that we are dealing with a new and huge problem, but I can say that in these very first few weeks the signals are encouraging and show an estate of the school world on which we must continue to invest as much as possible. I repeat only for a moment: my personal opinion is that the most strategic challenge is and will always be that of an organic relationship, complete, structured and not episodic between the National Health Service and the school system: a relationship that existed in the history of our country, but that unfortunately we left behind and that we must absolutely try to recover. Again, we are working to strengthen our testing capacity, because it is a decisive weapon in the phase we are going through. The last time I was in this House, I announced that we had managed to cross the threshold of 100,000 swabs a day. It was about a month ago and today I can say (it is a fact that you all know) that we have exceeded the threshold of 120,000 swabs per day in the past week. These are important numbers that signal an effort that we are putting in place, but we still have to insist, because the ability to test and track is an important weapon that the country has in this difficult transition phase. We have, among other things, started to use - as we know - not only the classic tests, those of the gold standard for the diagnosis that are molecular tests on RNA, but we started to use, with my order of August 13 at airports and with the latest circular of the Ministry of Health also outside the airports, where there is particular need to be fast (I think exactly about schools and places of training), also antigenic tests. The experience at airports has been positive and has given us encouraging signs of the reliability of this type of test and therefore the opinion of the Government, especially of our scientists, is that we can make a more widespread use of it. This is important, because speed of response is a great issue that we need to address. Science evolves and today gives us tools that we didn't have a few months ago. Our hope is that in a few weeks it will give us even more evolved instruments, even more refined and more capable of responding to our needs. For example, as far as testing is concerned, my hope is that we can, in a reasonable time clearly and in compliance with all the formal procedures in force, also achieve a significant use of salivary tests. Salivary tests can be important because it is evident that they have a less invasive execution mode, unlike the buffer that still has a fairly invasive mode. The salivary test from this point of view can be particularly useful, especially for the age groups related to the youngest. I am convinced - and I repeat this in this House - that science will give us important results in the coming weeks and months. There is an unprecedented work of the international scientific community at all levels. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) announced a few days ago - and this is certainly good news - that it formally started the validation phase of the first anticovid vaccine. The vaccine in question is the so-called Oxford vaccine, produced by AstraZeneca, on which Italy has built, among other things, the first understanding with France, Germany and Holland in June, and on which, as we know, there is also an important commitment of some of our country's realities. In a particular way, compared to this vaccine, the viral vector is made by the IRBM of Pomezia and the inflammation is done by the Catalent of Anagni. I believe that it is an important fact that within this international challenge, our country is at the forefront so that the vaccine can be as soon as possible a public good of all, capable of giving the answer that the entire international community is waiting for. Less is said about this, but important progress is also being made in the field of treatment; especially the treatments that seem to have the most encouraging results are those related to monoclonal antibodies. Also from this point of view there is a valuable work that is carried out by many Italian scientists and that we hope can be valued. In the August decree, which I believe has been discussed here today, there is an investment that we have made, of which we must defend the sense, strengthening it in the coming weeks. There is in fact a budget post of 80 million euros for 2020 and 300 million euros for 2021, exactly on this sector of research that is essential and on which our country must necessarily continue to be at the forefront. As you know, I have a lot of faith. I think that the world scientific community will give us at a reasonable time tools and weapons to be able to overcome this challenge. Humanity, the world, Europe and Italy will win the challenge of Covid. But the truth is that we still need time; before us there are months not easy because these instruments will not arrive tomorrow morning, but they will be, at best, in our availability within a few months. This is a significant time, it is not a short time and, then, the basic point that I want to bring to the attention of this House is the capacity for resistance that we must have. The vaccine will come, the treatments will come, but not today, not tomorrow morning; we still have months of resistance in front of us. I think the light is visible, but it still needs a few months' work, in which the only weapons we really have to fight continue to be the behavior of people, the measures of the national government and regional governments, and tracking, which is very important. Allow me also in this House to express gratitude to the publishers and media in our country who have given a boost to the Immuni app that in recent days is having a positive result in terms of downloading. Of course, we need to be able to focus more and more on our National Health Service. In these months it is the most important weapon we have; our women, our men, the people who work every day belly on the ground to face and fight the virus. I was a few days ago in the Senate Health and Health Commission and had been, a few days earlier in the House's Social Affairs Committee, to try to offer also a project of potential reform and relaunch of the National Health Service. I think this is particularly important and I hope that a debate in this House, as well as in the Commissions, will develop at some point on how we imagine the health service of the future. It is the most important weapon we have, it is the most precious stone of our country system. And now comes an extraordinary opportunity: it is the lesson of the Covid-19, that is to try to reform it, to change it, to strengthen it, not in a restrictive phase, but in a phase where there are more resources. I believe that this is a very great possibility, which we must absolutely collect, starting with the new lines of European funding. In conclusion, I would like to add two points of reflection. There is a message, which I hope is clear, the essential point of which is that we are at a junction and that we must necessarily raise the level of guard. This is the fundamental message that we want to try to give with the measures that we will implement in the next few hours. We need to raise the level of guard. The first point is that health security is the premise of every economic restart. I will insist with all the energy I have on this point. It is very wrong to give in to a cultural approach that makes many think that having fewer laces, less health ties, can help the country to run more. My opinion is that there is nothing more wrong and it is exactly the opposite. If we want to put the country in a position to really start again, the premise is to win the health battle. Winning the health battle is the first tile if we really want Italy to start again. [[Applause]] The second point is that I believe, as I have told you with great honesty and with great transparency, that the coming months will not be easy, for the reasons I have described. In a very complicated European world context, we cannot be deceived. We can't think it's gonna be a walk. In this challenge of the coming months, waiting for the vaccine and waiting for treatment, we need the country to withdraw its best. I mean to the bottom of what I think. I think that, in the most difficult months, Italy - not the Government, but Italy - has proved to be a great country. His women, his men, the Civil Protection, the Regions, the institutions at all levels, the Municipalities and then again the networks of volunteering and solidarity: we have shown that we are a great country, that in these hours is seen with attention also from other countries around the world. We need to recover that spirit. I think that, in the months that are missing from here to when we really see the light, we need to recover the spirit that accompanied us in March, April, May. That great spirit of unity, with a country that had the strength to tighten up in cohorts and to overcome the dramatic challenge that was coming at those moments. I think that in the next few months we will have to recover that spirit and unite Italy. No one has to stay outside. We need to unite Italy, to prove, once again, that Italy is a really great country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u47	I note that the motions for resolutions will have to be tabled before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u48	Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address Minister Hope to tell him that we, Minister, have always recognized his professionalism, fairness and fair play. He evoked a series of suggestions on which we can only agree, with a deep - alas - very deep limit, that even his polite eloquence failed to fill. With regard to the request for an extension of the state of emergency, I open and close an inscription. Minister, you mentioned sectoral emergency states, not general emergency states. Here we are talking about a state of emergency that, not so long ago, closed down 60 million Italians. Then it is not possible that, in the state of emergency, as is clear from his polite words, the authorization for the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, then by a unilateral administrative act of the Government, should be re-established to deprive, once again, 60 million Italians of their rights of freedom. [[Applause]] That's not possible. Believe me, Minister, you are dealing with collaborative people, we have shown this even if - I repeat once again - these continuous evocations of collaboration and request for solidarity from a government that, apart from some pleasant coffee at Palazzo Chigi, has not particularly involved us in its emergency management activity [[Applause]] , although we still have and have very useful health, economic and knowledge economy recipes - probably the most important theme of these times - to quickly restart the country. Minister, I really do not believe that it is possible that the state of emergency means putting in content that is so important to all of us. What we are talking about, I repeat, says the Update Note to the DEF in that part relating to the possible scenarios of the pandemic, in which it is said that other selective closures of economic sectors will be possible. Haven't we had enough, Minister? [[Applause]] We cannot do that with a decree from the President of the Council of Ministers. Believe me, you don't have a bunch of blind negationists in front of you, you have people who make security protocols the essence of emergency management, but not so, not in this way, not deceiving the Italians, Minister, that the state of emergency means greater security. You who are in the government should demonstrate, like all other governments of Europe, that you are able to govern this country with ordinary instruments, not with special laws and with edicts that cut out the only body that is entitled to cut the rights of freedom, that is, Parliament. [[Applause]] This is for a very simple reason - then my colleagues, whose speeches will follow my own, will deepen the specific topics - because it is not right, Minister, that a unilateral act by the Government should take place on a body such as the Parliament representing all Italians and when measures are taken that affect all Italians there is only one house in which these measures must be discussed: this. [[Applause]] I say this not only to you, Minister, but also to my colleagues in the majority, who must not allow these rights to be taken away from this body, this body, this college forever, because of problems in the management of government dynamics. Please, Minister, you are a competent person, to transfer this thought to those who are responsible for it. It is not possible, to bring home a result today, to deprive the country of the necessary separation of powers tomorrow and forever. [[Applause]] This is also the future of the country. You said you wanted to thank the health workers and the school workers. You really have to do this, because especially for school workers, Minister, everything has not gone well. We must thank everyone except Mr Azzolina, and that is not a small thing, Minister. [[Applause]] We had six months to set up security protocols. You are right when you say that you are doing everything possible, but what you can do when you require special laws and full powers is not enough. You are well aware that there are problems with health care facilities that have never been prepared in the school. You know that there are problems with the management of health problems that will become increasingly serious from now on, because as you have told us so many times from here to April five million people, Minister, Deputy Minister, will get sick of respiratory viral diseases that are not Covid, but that can overlap with Covid, of which doctors will not be able to diagnose and where will these patients go? In public, private, first aid clinics, by the basic doctors? Did you set up security protocols for all of this? We've been asking you for six months. We have been asking you for six months to set up the school system, at least by providing structural security. Did it help to change the benches? You've seen some terrible scenes: wheelchairs knocking at each other, in the face of social distancing. We see gatherings outside the schools. Mr. Minister, we can't say that when everything's okay, it's the government's fault, and when everything's not okay, like now, it's the Italians' fault. [[Applause.]] You have only acknowledged that this is not the case, but your President-in-Office and your Government have not. We're intellectually honest. Minister, one more thing. We refuse - and we will fight until the last breath - to allow the state of emergency to be extended to all Italians and their fundamental freedoms, and that there is an ordinary tax levy, starting from 15 October, with 9 million records that will start at the expense of taxpayers who are not earning or earning much less. We will ask and continue to ask for the extension of all tax deadlines, foreclosures of salaries and pensions at least until 31 January 2021. This is a duty. A state that asks for money from those who do not earn or those who earn less not because of it is a tyrant state [[Applause),]] and we don't want to be accomplices to a tyrant state. Mr President, I believe that my time has run out. Minister, we have a lot to say and we will tell you in our speeches. You understand that we don't like the state of emergency for a specific reason. He's telling us things today with a fiction that we never liked, because she comes to tell us something about which we say other things that she won't take into account. The government will still do its unilateral act, regardless of what we tell you in the next two hours. [[Applause.]] This is a mockery, Minister, first of all of the Government, even more than of Parliament. You're making fun of yourself. We demand and demand that what you are doing do with the only instrument provided for in the Constitution for necessity and urgency: the decree-laws. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, Minister, the Constitution is not a harp that stands aside when it is not convenient to use it. The Constitution is always and forever, and the Constitution has made clear instruments for the emergency. Do not ask us to cooperate anymore by making non-participating observers. We have told you so many times and we repeat it: we are to collaborate, to work together, but for us collaboration will never be obedience. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u49	Senator Romeo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the League has always argued that in order to combat the pandemic, beyond the emergency situation, yes-state of emergency, no, what really matters, the real substance, is whether the government is ready to deal with this situation, yes or no. Has the government prepared itself? We asked for it with a question on 7 July: it was quite obvious that there could be or that we could be faced with a second wave, a resurgence of the virus. So we need to figure out if the government is ready. On the state of emergency, forgive me, Minister, without going into controversy. My colleagues in the centre-right have made it abundantly clear, but lately it has been a reflection not only for you and for the government, but for the whole of Parliament, it has come from the intervention made by the constitutionalist Sabino Cassese, who said that the emergency is not there, we are in a widely anticipated situation. As I said earlier, Minister, the League's question dates back to 7 July. Read more Cassese: "It was known that there would be a reoccurrence of the contagions, life has begun again, the virus circulates, it was known that there would be this. The state of emergency only serves because within the state machine there is an impotence in dealing with ordinary problems. Basically, it serves to speed up those procedures - says Sabino Cassese - that you do not have the ability to speed up in an ordinary way. I say this as a reflection precisely to make it clear that, in fact, it is not so much the question of the state of emergency yes or no, because it is more a tool that is used in this direction: to speed up procedures that in ordinary terms cannot be faced. What matters, the substance, is the ability, in the face of the situation in which we live, to be ready. I therefore ask you a number of questions, Minister, because you answered in this House that the plan was there, that you were ready and that everything was fine. But then, if everything's okay, why aren't flu vaccines found in Italian pharmacies? [[Applause]] which should be used at this stage to try to provide some kind of coverage to the population? Above all, are we sure that, where they are requested, at least the so-called at-risk people, the weakest and most vulnerable will have the opportunity to vaccinate? These are the questions you have to answer, because it is clear that those with pathologies, the elderly or those with other types of problems must be protected in some way. These, I repeat, are the questions that you absolutely must answer. In any case, Minister, I invite you to come to this House, not only to talk about the Covid, but also to discuss many other issues, since you are the Minister of Health; perhaps you will have Count dealt with the emergency here and you will come and discuss many other issues. [[Applause]] We have read, for example, that there is a slowdown in other pathologies. There are 1.4 million fewer screenings; even we are told that, with late diagnosis, the risk is that it will increase the mortality of patients. This happened in the first five months of 2020. There are in fact many other diseases that need to be treated and, from what we are told, hospitals are in clear suffering to follow everything. I repeat, there is not only the Covid, but there are many other pathologies. Are we working to ensure that there are no endless waiting lists and that screening takes place? Are we working so that hospitals can resume ordinary work on all other diseases as well? Another question I want to ask: have you upgraded the basic medicine? In view of the first influences that will involve the children, definitely from the end of October or beginning of November, are we sure that the parents will not all run to the emergency room to ask to immediately do the swab and check whether or not it is Covid-19? Has the system of territorial medicine so much talked about been strengthened? Are the basic doctors ready to face the situation, to visit the children directly in the homes, in the families? Have we developed this kind of mode? Have we stocked up - so we have warehouses full of drugs, swabs, reagents or those quick tests that should now help in some way speed up the monitoring activity? Have we stocked up masks and sanitizer gels, those, of course, with prior health authorization and not those that were ordered by the President-in-Office of the Council? Why, for example, have there been delays - this is what we have seen - in the calls for intensive therapy? I would like you to take away a curiosity, Minister, because we have also noticed some contradictions that we sincerely fail to understand. I do not want to address the issue of the Juventus-Naples football match or anything else: let's leave football aside, also because, as you rightly say, the health of the citizens is more important. In any case, as regards the adoption of certain measures, why can 1,000 people enter the stadiums, regardless of the capacity of the stadiums themselves? A maximum of 1,000 people are expected for a stadium containing 10,000, as well as for one containing 80,000: let us note some contradiction. We just want to understand what the reason is, especially because then, once you get in, the 1,000 people are all in a small sector, instead of maybe being a little more scattered in the stadium, so that, by increasing the gap, you can guarantee some more level of security. [[Applause]] Mine are curiosity. Don't be mad, Minister. It's kind of like the rules on distancing. I really appreciate the rules on using masks, spacers, hand washing. Then explain to me why on the planes we are crammed like sardines, when we travel [[Applause]] There's nothing to do with the distance? I understand that sardines, in a time of distance, have been a bit old fashioned: it can be there and we all noticed it, but we wanted to understand why. Because then you organize the rave parties, no one goes to check and come thousands and thousands of people, without masks and without protection, who can do what they want? Why do citizens report that in some places of worship the mask is not at all worn? I'm not talking about the churches, which I frequent, where I see that there is space, with chairs and masks, and it's all arranged perfectly. Depending on the membership of the cult, is there a sort of particular immunity that can be enjoyed, because perhaps one religion is professed rather than another? [[Applause]] If the rules are to be the same, they are the same for everyone. On the other hand, we have noticed a different attitude, depending on the type of population. You don't understand why, but if the rules have to apply to everyone, it's right that they do. (13.35) (Follows ROMEO). I would like to ask you another question, Minister, about the data you have mentioned, that the positives are growing compared to the summer, from 12,000 to 60,000. It is therefore quite right that we should not lower our guard and reiterate that the use of the mask is correct and correct. However, we ask again whether it is not even more fair and correct to give a more transparent view of the data, as we had already asked for in the last debate. Mr. Minister, let's understand: there are newspapers that have titled, "never so high," "like in April," recalling the period of lockdown. When you make the statement, which is reported in all television stations, you must make it clear once and for all also to the media, because communication is fundamental on all topics, from the use of masks to the whole context around us. Giving messages that terrify the population, in our opinion, is not correct. Let us then ask ourselves how many daily swabs we made in April and how many we make today. Let us ask ourselves what percentage of positives we found on a number of swabs made in April and what we find these days. This could be something to consider. Then there is the question of the relationship between asymptomatic and symptomatic. In the various broadcasts I hear someone saying that it is 45 percent, another saying that it is 70 percent and yet another 80 percent. Is it possible that there is no scientific data that tells us, on the basis of the swabs made, how exactly are the asymptomatic ones? [[Applause]] I do not know this fact, but Italians have the right to know it! Regarding the deceased, here too the daily number of deaths is said, but we want to know something more, for example, if they had particular diseases or if they were young people who were well or otherwise had no particular problem. This too becomes an important message and an issue that we must ask ourselves. In conclusion, speaking of numbers, I recall that someone in this House told me that it is enough to go to the Ministry of Health to look for them. Happy birthday! I went on the Internet to look for data and noticed that on March 19, 47,798 swabs were positive 9.361, about 19.5 percent of cases. So, out of just over 47,000 swabs, there were about 9,000 positives. On April 16th, then two weeks later, again in the time of lockdown, 60,000 swabs were positive, 6.2 percent and it was already quite a while since we were all stopped. On October 3, then a few days ago, out of 118,000 swabs carried out, only 2.884 were positive (fortunately, 2.4 percent). If we go to see these proportions, then, 2.4 percent, compared to 19.5 can not make us think that, today as today, we are in such an emergency situation that we have to shut down the activities and so on! [[Applause]] That is the reasoning I wanted to make.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u51	I must invite you to conclude, Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u52	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I conclude with an important message, because - forgive me - it is right to be cautious, but also to have common sense. In fact, if we continue with these messages that terrify the population, soon, when the first influences begin, people will stay home for fear; there will be no declared lockdown, but in fact it will be so: everyone will be afraid and will stay at home. So it is right to have caution, but - in conclusion, Mr President - it must be told once and for all to people that zero risk does not exist and that caution, masks and distancement must be used and wash their hands; we protect the elderly and people who have particular pathologies, but we also say that today we are able to cure people who possibly want to get sick. Mr Minister, a word of advice: we need not only to scare people, but also to reassure the people, because the psychological element is not a small one, in a situation like this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u53	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u54	Mr President, Minister, Vice-Minister, it seems to me that I have a strange feeling of déjà-vu, in the sense that many of the things I have heard today are absolutely similar and comparable to what the Minister told us a few days ago and that the Vice-Minister echoed in the Commission's work: they are repeated. We could also say that it repetits iuvant, because all in all they are the description of a situation and a proposal for interventions. The situation is what it is, with rising indicators compared to the number of people infected and sick; on the other hand, the measures we must take are those that we all now know perfectly, according to the famous trilogy of mask, distance and sanitizing gel. Perfect, but all this cannot define, resolve and somehow concentrate the entire message that comes from the government through Parliament and that then from this, probably through press releases, will reach the whole country. There is something more that we need to know and I am referring at least to three very concrete lines of what you said. First, one of the keywords he used is "priority". Health is a priority, I say that I have been in the Health Commission since I have been in Parliament and I am perfectly convinced that the health issue should also be an investment in the state economy and not a cost; therefore, from this point of view, I not only consider it a priority, but also one of those famous rights protected by our Constitutional Charter with an added emphasis. So health is a priority. Then the Minister referred to another key word, unity, i.e. cooperation and integration. Let's forget the collaboration between majority and opposition, which occasionally explodes even according to the physiological dynamics of democracy. Normally the opposition raises the ball and the majority crushes it, in the good sense of the term: one raises the level of expectations and the other, which represents the majority and therefore should have a more concrete sense of realism, responds that it is easy to make a dream book, but actually says what you can and what you will be able to do. In this case, when we talk about the dialectic between opposition and majority, we try to crush the ball in the sense of ignoring it in many ways, especially by deevaluing the concreteness of the contents that are proposed. Therefore, I propose to you the theme and key words "unity" and "cooperation" at other levels. For example, many times we have heard of the need to shift attention from hospital medicine to that of the territory. You yourself re-launched the idea of what I call houses of health, because fifteen years ago, in that famous bill (when Livia Turco was Minister of Health), they were called precisely that and are very close to these structures of community that you invoked as models in which the different skills find a place of dialogue in the territory. But we have never seen anything of this in the operational proposals that tells us that an answer is being created; I do not know if there is a need for an implementing decree, in which case I would be sorry, because we know that there are more than 180 measures pending the implementing decrees. But it seems to me that we would need to take a concrete step; of the type "we need this, we are doing this and we will do this." However, we know that very often the passage through the State-Regions Conference succeeds in frustrating everything, because the priorities perceived at regional level from time to time are others. Let me stress another important thing: many of the measures contained in the August Decree-Law, which we have just converted, go into the "positive direction" of recognition and also of a gratification of the health personnel at the economic level, because the basic objective is to break down a long waiting list, which concerns not only the Covid patients, but also the oncology and chronic ones and all those acutias that are not necessarily linked only to respiratory diseases (the ones that we are living through the Covid). However, there is none of this. Today, just as today, the recovery of infections that is present at this time creates a double-edged effect. On the one hand, the patient is afraid to approach the hospital; she can read in all newspapers that hospitals are considered high-risk places. On the other hand, the hospital doctor tries to resign so early (I refer for example to the surgeries in the field of orthopedics, such as those for the rupture of the femur) that the patients are sent home after twenty-four hours, because there they will be safer, according to a dynamic of an incredible complexity, as in the case of the management of an elderly patient, alone and with other difficulties. We lack an overall view of the health system. I shall end by saying to you, Minister, that we expect an answer to the health needs that really reflects the unity you call for, of knowledge, cooperation and democratic forces, that is, an operational and concrete dialogue at the service of the patient, which we feel is missing a little at the moment. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u55	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u56	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u57	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to make a point of order. Some of my colleagues pointed out to me that, during my speech, I spoke the words 'people who want to get sick'. My understanding was instead to say: "People who should get sick" and therefore we are able to cure them. If I did this dirtbag, it was not wanted: the meaning of the sentence was simply what I just said. I wanted to leave a record of the correction of an error caused by the heat of the surgery. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. We take note of that, Senator Romeo. Senator Castellone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u58	Mr President, Minister, Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in March we were a place to be avoided in every way, an epicentre of nightmare. Today we are a model of containment of the virus able to teach the rest of the world, because the Italian authorities did what had to be done, and quickly. They have established a very hard lockdown, putting lives ahead of the economy, through a combination of supervision and painfully acquired medical experience, which could be more advantageous even for the economy itself with the help of public interventions that supported workers and businesses. These, Minister, are the words of the New York Times, referring to the management of the pandemic in Italy. That's right: we weren't ready to deal with this health emergency because our National Health Service has been coming from a decade of bad cuts. We had no beds in intensive care, public hospital departments were short of staff, and infrastructure and technology were obsolete. In almost all regions there were no networks of primary and intermediate care that served as a filter, so doctors of general medicine were the first to become infected. They had to close their studies, because they were not equipped to handle a pandemic, did not have personal protective equipment and had not been trained; in the early stages of this emergency we lost many lives, often because the patients waited at home for days, waiting to be subjected to swabs, or were treated with symptomatic therapy and then being transported to the emergency room when dyspnoea arose, which was a sign of acute lung damage, not always reversible. Too many lives lost: 36,000, including many health workers, and these numbers today I repeat because they must remain impressed in the mind. History must be teaching for the future and cannot be denied. It is not acceptable that we are still talking here today about conspiracies, hidden truths, non-existent infection and the uselessness of tracking and containment measures. [[Applause.]] We have heard of clinically dead viruses, but it is clear that one who in other countries reaps thousands of victims is not; simply, perhaps, circulated less by us precisely thanks to the lockdown put in place. It was clear that, with the reopening of the activities, also the contagions would resume to increase and, consequently, over time, the share of symptomatic subjects that needed medical assistance would increase. I want to clarify, compared to what Senator Romeo said, that in April we used to swab all symptomatic subjects, so it's clear that the positive rate was higher at the time. Today, on the other hand, the fact that among all those subjected to a buffer a small part is really positive to the virus is indicative of the functioning of the tracking measures that we have put in place. [[Applause.]] Minister, I firmly disagree with those who wink at the negationists in order to gather some more consent and from those who, because of their unconsciousness, are once again jeopardising the lives of my medical colleagues, nurses and health workers. This Government and this Parliament have a moral obligation to defend all the citizens of our country and to secure their health, which is not a luxury for a few, but a primary asset to protect. Even those citizens who some health councilor calls "ordinary" must be able to be treated in the best possible way and private health must be a crutch for public health service and not a sponge that drains resources and falls into the field only when well paid. [[Applause.]] The principles of our National Health Service must be defended and protected at all costs, because it is precisely the universality, fairness, equality and gratuitousness of care for the needy that makes it the best in the world. The images of the homeless crowded in the car parks of the shopping malls in the United States or the poor in India will remain forever in the eyes of all of us, climbing trees to escape infection. We too have staggered and risked falling, exhausted under the blows of the pandemic, but we have come out of it thanks to the resilience and the spirit of sacrifice of our health personnel, sent to fight with scarcity of means and men, on a battlefield made impervious by bad policies, which have committed cuts for years, transforming the right to health into good for a few and the investment in health into a expendable expense. This government has made incredible efforts, asking for help - as you said, Minister - to the brilliant minds of our scientists, to develop guidelines and protocols that would guide health workers in facing an enemy that is still largely unknown today. Every day Italian doctors, hospitals and health officials collect more than 20 indicators on the virus and send these data to the regional authorities who forward them to the Higher Institute of Health. This model allows us to have an updated X-ray of the country's health, on which then political decisions are based. So let's start with the data and the scientific method that, in circumstances like this, is the only one of salvation. To prolong the state of emergency today is precisely to continue to respond quickly in the event of new outbreaks or of further increase of infection. The President-in-Office of the Council has repeatedly said that the health of the Italian people comes and will always come first, and today we reaffirm this choice of public health protection before anything else. Now, Minister, we must resist, as you said, but also look to the future, because when this is over, nothing will be the same as before. To do this, we must have defined and precise objectives, in the short and long term. Minister, in the short term, in order to control the infection, it is necessary that the diagnosis be more and more timely, in order to trace and isolate all positive cases. To do this, rapid molecular tests must be used as soon as they are available; immediately we use validated antigen tests, which have good sensitivity and specificity. Premature, home and territorial loading is needed to monitor patients through telemedicine and, if necessary, to treat them at the first signs of symptoms, to avoid complications. For this reason it is essential that general medical doctors have defined protocols and guidelines. We need Covid-19 hospitals, which are dedicated, because we can no longer turn our nosocomi into outbreaks or suspend ordinary outpatient activity. I would also like to take up what Senator Romeo said: over a million cancer screening tests have not been carried out in recent months and this will result in an increase not only in cancer diagnosis, but also in mortality due to delays in taking care of and caring for cancer patients. In the medium and long term, however, Minister, a major reform project of the National Health Service is needed. We need to reorganise the entire system of public prevention and restore centrality to territorial medicine, shifting attention from hospitals to the territory. [[Applause]] Political interference in regional health management must be reduced and the role of guidance, coordination and control of the state level strengthened. Relationships with private health must be redefined: health care residences must be converted to treatment and rehabilitation centres for patients who need intensive care that cannot be practiced at home, of course under public management and supervision. The digitisation process must be carried out without hesitation, through the electronic medical record and the electronic health file. The territorial emergency-emergency system must be reformed. It is therefore time to reform our health care, to make it an instrument for the protection and exercise of the right to health, enshrined in Article 32 of the Constitution, by putting the planning, skills and enhancement of merit at the centre; because only with solid and forward-looking projects can we make the best use of the funds of the recovery fund and those found by the next generation EU. We cannot risk wasting this opportunity and the great teaching that the dramatic unpredictability of tragedies has given us. We have discovered that it is not enough to be individual, but we must move as a team, if we are collective and if we are each acting in the interests of everyone. And we, Minister, are sure that you and this Government have at heart the interest of Italian citizens and the protection of their health and we will be at your side in this battle, always working as a team in a constructive way. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u59	Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the Minister. You, Minister Hope, thanked the National Health Service, the doctors, the nurses, the operators of the sector and, as it should be, the principals and the teachers. Well: I want to thank you, because in recent months you have shown, before political belongings, that you are a balanced man, sensitive and always attentive to what was addressed to you by the majority and the opposition and I believe that this has given you a lesson in good politics. I want to say this even though in the past we have had many times competitive political belongings among ourselves, because at this moment it is right to recognize, with objectivity, when people have behaved well in their political work. I say to my colleagues in the opposition that, overall, we should acknowledge that the government, in addressing the issue of the coronavirus pandemic, has worked well. We must not be afraid to see how, after all, the results we have achieved today have been better than other countries and I do not think that should make us sorry. Indeed, this must somehow make us proud, because it is a result of Italy and our tricolor and not already of Count, Hope, Zingaretti or Renzi. No, it is a result of all: it is of the Italians, as has been pointed out. To my previous colleague, who certainly has more specific powers in this matter than I do, I want to say that in this debate I have not heard any negationists (I also say this to be objective). I believe that in Italy the opposition cannot be identified with negationism and moreover it governs the majority of the Regions: I do not see Presidents of the Region negationists; perhaps, sometimes, they have different visions, but, as the Minister has remembered, they try to work together with the Government to give the citizens a unique response of the public institutions. What did the Minister say to us today? He told us to be careful, because our results are better than those of other countries, but the increase that other countries record we are recording, in proportion, also us. Therefore, let us be careful that we must return to a phase of restrictions. Minister, I accept the approach, which I believe is correct. In fact, we all see that a fear is coming back among the people that is what we saw a few months ago, because the contagions increase, although, thank God, they are not equal to those registered in Paris or Madrid, thanks to the actions we have done. What is the point we are facing today? It is trying to be firm and rigorous, but balanced. There are some things that I cannot understand and, if I put them today in this parliamentary debate, it is certainly not out of criticism, but because I want to try to make a contribution as a Member of Parliament. For example, this morning I was terminal of several phone calls from sports executives of my region, who manifest some problems. Sport is not a sector that we can define as secondary, as it is a large sector that involves the interest of Italians, it gives a sign of pseudo-normality, even with empty stages, and has great economic importance. I am asked whether it is not right to introduce the concept of proportionality. What sense does it make - it has been said before - to foresee the presence of 1,000 people in San Siro and the same number in another stadium that has a capacity of 10,000 places? What is the point of not adopting the same proportionality criterion in closed structures, when we then have people stuck in buses or commuting trains (while in those of the main lines the spacing is observed)? Minister, I raise this problem. The same applies to the relationship between Serie A and Serie B of football (the issue concerns not you, Minister, but the sports authorities). In Verona they can go in a thousand to the stadium, while, when the Chievo plays, the fans can not enter. It makes no sense: they are two teams in the same city playing in the same stadium, one in Serie A and one in Serie B; they must have the same rules. The same is true of indoor installations: I have seen that the president of my Bonaccini Region has tried to introduce criteria that are right in my opinion, because they are marked by firmness: just the masks, the distance and the prohibition of assembly, but at the same time it takes reasonableness, because you cannot be ommissive compared to public transport and maybe harshly repressive compared to sporting events that have a great economic impact, but that also give the sign of a country that, with these right restrictions that you have proposed, returns to the road of normality. I have contributed to this by wishing that the intelligence and balance of the government can somehow give answers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u61	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u62	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion the extension of the pandemic state of emergency to 31 January 2021, as proposed by the Minister and the Government, is absolutely indisputable, but it is equally important that this time is used to the best possible extent. The limitations that we are deciding today, rightly and appropriately, for our fellow citizens and our fellow citizens, such as the obligation of masking also outdoors, with which we are totally changing our being in relation to each other, represent a very heavy decision, but necessary at this stage. Precisely because it is so important, even humanly, we must have how to counter the reassurance and strengthening of the health system, hospitals, home and territorial assistance (as the Minister has said several times) and prevention in all regions, starting from the weakest ones. So, we need resources now and in the next few months to clean up our health care. I call on the Minister, my colleagues and my colleagues in the opposition and in the majority to have a real and in-depth discussion on the need for access to ESM funding. I am sure that our positions would come closer, given the benefits of the entire population. Making the most of this time means giving importance to compliance with the International Health Regulations, which in the case of infectious diseases keeps in mind that a virus originated in a country can spread anywhere. The Regulation will have to be updated in the light of the Covid. Current experience will teach us what to do in the future to prepare for any new pandemics. The Covid-19 could be in this sense an opportunity that goes beyond the disaster created. Using this time well means fixing the transport issue, as President Casini well remembered. Making the best use of this time will be necessary to increase tampons and tracking. The Minister made it clear: the data on the increase of swabs are unequivocal, but in a city like Rome, for example, until yesterday there were also files of hours to drive in order to make one. We must also use this time to reduce waiting times and to communicate results, so to secure people and families. Furthermore, we must be aware of the path that has been made. At first, swabs were made only to symptomatics, while asymptomatics could transmit the virus. We learned that, so having extended the emergency helped to understand what the real problem was. Very important is what is being done in the last period in truly interpreting the finest and most accurate results of the swabs. There is a certain amount of Italians who are weakly positive, because the swab reveals the trace of RNA and wonders whether they can or cannot infect. It is very interesting that science goes on about this, because it helps politics to make decisions. The relationship between symptomatic and hospitalized patients and people who go to intensive care is still much to study. At the same time, we need to speed up research, without which there is no development: we need reliability and safety in the validation of rapid tests, quality, care and vaccines. We also need to strengthen, help and support the industrial health chain, which must be conceived as the defence of a country. Unfortunately the pandemic will last for a long time with ups and downs and therefore the industrial chain of health must be at the center of the development of the country. A national network, integrated with the European network, of centres dedicated to the study and development of therapeutic, diagnostic and preventive solutions must be established. Minister, you assured us in this House, in your communications of 2 September last, that every parliamentary passage is never ritual and formal, but it is a useful opportunity to gather ideas and suggestions within a dialectic that can always be the most profitable possible, which makes our democracy ever stronger. He reiterated this concept this morning and, more than ever before, Parliament's role becomes central if we want to act in full awareness and responsibility not only for the separation of powers, but also for their balance, especially in an emergency. We parliamentarians are in the territories, we gather and welcome the concerns, fears and hopes of citizens and citizens, who have the institutional and moral duty to bring into these classrooms, making the right decisions with a positive dialectic with the Government. He recalled the debate in the 12th Commission, in which we drew up an opinion yesterday with a very constructive dialectic between majority and opposition and that health is also cross-cutting, for example, to the other missions of the recovery fund. At the end of his communications in this House on 2 and 9 September, I myself wanted and urged that we find common ground and a space for the formation of shared standards, which sometimes avoid a difficult dialectic, often diverting attention from the dramatic scale of the gravity of the problem, which has prostrated the whole world. The state of emergency is therefore extended in full respect of the balance between individual freedom and temporary rules, not of restriction, but of rational, proportionate and effective adaptation for the protection of health and all activities. We ask the citizens to respect the rules and on the point, Minister, we always follow you. I do not think that the Government, as is sometimes said, draws any advantage for itself or for others from the decree of urgency or the extension of a state of emergency end in itself. Those who think this should also assess the risk of unpopularity of a Government that would expose itself, if there were not really and historically the assumptions, well-founded reasons and risks for the entire country system. The data that the Minister has brought us here and the comparison with the situation of the other countries that find themselves, like us or even worse, to manage the epidemic, impose us seriousness, responsibility and awareness of our roles. The last theme is that of the relationship between the State and the Regions. I have already had occasion to say before that, in my opinion, a vacuum must be filled in our legal system, providing for a rule that decides what to do in conditions of epidemic, as Germany has done. In conclusion, the state of emergency is fine, temperate however by the reassurance that the Government and Parliament together must give to the Italian population. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u63	Senator Iori is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, unfortunately, over the last few days we have been witnessing with concern a growth in the contagion curve, in ordinary hospitalizations, in intensive care and, unfortunately, in deaths, as already indicated in the figures by the Minister himself. The Covid-19, despite someone's attempt to describe it as a clinically dead virus, is still alive and continues to have a dramatic impact on our societies, relationships, emotional life and work. Anyone who has suggested otherwise in recent weeks is irresponsible and has spread dangerous lies. To understand the extent of the problem, it is sufficient to look beyond our borders, where the situation appears to be out of control. I think of Paris and Madrid, for example. We have an attitude of greater prudence and foresight, which has allowed us to become a model in the management of the virus, a model even if imperfect is meant, but a model worldwide. No one can deny that the effects of the return wave of the Covid-19 have to date a different dimension than that of many other European countries. We certainly do not know if what is happening in the rest of the continent can happen in the coming weeks or months even in Italy, but we know that our ability to live with the virus is an internationally recognized result. The European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control has put us among the low-risk countries. The WHO praised us and most of the international press said that those who mocked Italy for the initial difficulties in managing the virus should take note of the validity of our strategy. For Süddeutsche Zeitung, Italy is a model, an example to be followed to deal with the coronavirus pandemic in a responsible manner. In my opinion, responsibility is the key word for describing the validity and effectiveness of our strategies: responsible for the institutions, responsible for the citizens and responsible for the health care staff, who, with a widespread conscious attitude, have all decided to respect the anti-contagion rules. We have understood better than others that our freedom is measured, not by the degree of anarchy, but by the ability to respect the minimum rules of common sense. For once we can tell ourselves: we were capable, we were good, somehow. The choice of a gradual release of the lockdown, of prolonging the state of emergency, of continuing to maintain the obligation of the masks was right and - we know - it was not easy at all. In this respect, we should express our gratitude to Minister Hope, who has held fast despite enormous pressure, reinforced by the irresponsible stances of some experts. In countries like France, Spain or the United Kingdom, in fact, which have succumbed to those pressures, we are witnessing a second wave that is taking on even more dramatic contours than the first, with a political confrontation between institutions that is undermining social cohesion. Let us look around: the extension of the state of emergency to 31 January is the wisest and most appropriate choice that can be made at this time. And it is very serious that, at such a dramatic stage and on such an important subject, an insolent propaganda has been made which has nothing to do with the sense of this measure. The truth must be said: this is not about suspending fundamental freedoms or imposing full powers, as someone wants to make people believe in order to foment confrontation and gain some political advantage. The awareness that the state of emergency has not ended allows the Government and the Civil Protection to use more streamlined and faster procedures to issue and enforce the necessary measures to contain a greater epidemiological risk. It is the only means available to act with sufficiently fast timing, to monitor in a widespread and constant way, to increase when it is necessary the places in intensive care, to declare red areas in case of particularly worrying outbreaks, to ensure the supply of material related to the containment of the emergency and, in addition to the health side, also not to interrupt the job, to maintain the modalities of access to the smart working, making it easier for the parents with young children, to activate more agile modalities in the allocation of contracts and special economic covers related to the pandemic. Colleagues, a serious country behaves like this, because without rules there is no freedom, I repeat: without rules there is no freedom. This is the most difficult phase. We are at a crucial moment, we should all row in the same direction, trying to avoid the mistakes made by other countries that intervened when it was too late or when the contagions were very high. The Director-General of the Health Agency of the Paris region stated that the limit set was exceeded. Our objective - and this is a question that should concern everyone, from the majority to the opposition - is to stick to caution, to prevent infection from reaching very high and uncontrollable levels, and to the flexibility towards different specific situations at territorial level. The measures of the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control serve this purpose. The imposition of masks even in the open air and the distancing are necessary measures to prevent too close contacts, for example the exit of schools or even outside public spaces. So, a choice of common sense. For all the other measures I am sure that the collaboration between the Regions and the Government will allow to make choices that hold together the need to protect health with the defense of income and work, as well as of sociality, even if necessarily reduced and modified. It is not simple, it was not yesterday and it is not today and, since no one wants to repeat a lockdown that our country would not be able to withstand from any point of view, it is essential to act all immediately seriously, supporting now the measures that will help us avoid more serious trouble in the future. We need sacrifices on the part of all to ensure that social space measures are implemented in the places of assembly where there are greater risks. The rules are there, now they need to be enforced, because all this would help us keep schools open and - on this I believe we all agree - keeping schools open is a priority for everyone. I conclude on this point: I hope that work will be done to reconstruct a new organic and not episodic relationship, as stated by Minister Hope, between the National Health Service and the school system, trying to standardize the protocols of intervention of the ASL in the various institutions still very different from each other, accelerating the use of rapid tests that have already been acquired and that can be employed in cases of less serious suspicion. Colleagues, it is clear that in the face of an epidemic that affects the whole world we must unite the country and not divide it. For this reason I appeal to all of us: the intensification of security measures does not become a clash of political factions, because it is the future of the country. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u65	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 14 July, when we came to this House to explain why a further extension of the state of emergency was necessary until October, we had already told the Minister that our fear was that, without concrete solutions capable of effectively combating the virus, we would have revised it here within a few months to explain that it would take longer. (At 14:18 a.m.) (Following RIZZOTTI). Today - as you wanted to show - you are here again, Minister - and we thank you for your presence in this House and in the Commission - to tell us what we have been reading in the newspapers for days, namely that the increase in cases in our country imposes attitudes of caution and further restrictions. Of course, we need caution and responsibility, but reading, for example, that the government would intend to use the army to control citizens who do not wear masks in the open, seems a bit of a risky or wrong choice. We have always been for the use of the army in the cities, but for the safety of the citizens. This use of fear and terror in Italians is really leading to a huge concern, I would also say to exasperation. What has not worked in these three months in the concept so dear to this Government of the three Ts, i.e. swabs, therapy, territory? Have you estimated that perhaps the number of swabs to declare healed people impairs the ability to test new suspicious cases and their contacts? Tampons are missing, time is too long. Is it clear the concept that the Immuni app, which should have given a great hand to implement tracking, is not used? People are afraid to stay locked in the house indefinitely because the ASL does not provide tampons; eight or nine days pass. [[Applause.]] Everything about serodiagnosis was rightly mentioned, but we know that seroprevalence was a failure: only 64,400 were tested on a forecast of 150,000 people to be tested, then brought to 190,000 by the Red Cross. People refused precisely because those who first had spontaneously and happily joined realized that they would have to stay in the house for eight or ten days and that no one would take care of them, so they no longer accepted. There would always be the talk of the EUR 4 million allocated to the fund entrusted to Commissioner Arcuri. The tests were given by the companies and only the reagents were purchased, but more was spent and the Red Cross spent more money on donations. It would be important to try to clarify but this state of numbers is not found. We know that there are thousands of people, between freelance professionals and micro-entrepreneurs, with mild symptoms that choose not to communicate it to their doctor for fear of having to spend a long time at home, and serological tests that were to be used to make statistics are rejected. What are these further months of extension for? Will it help to improve these systems? With what resources? Why not better prepare our hospitals and healthcare professionals using, for example, ESM funds, which can be made available immediately? I am still waiting for an answer to my July question which I tabled because everything is done very late, the second wave is going on, the citizens are panicking because they fear the loss of work also because of their children, because every week someone stays at home and does not go to school. Of course, the State and its citizens must cooperate actively and not blame each other, but the chaos of the many measures only creates confusion, while we all need certainties and clear guidelines. No more sight-seeing. The majority repeats that "we were all unprepared," "we were the first to be struck in such an important way on something we did not know," "how good we were, how good we were, how much we compliment ourselves, how much Europe and WHO tell us that we are good": yes, okay, but it has been nine months. It was a very long and difficult birth and I would say that now we would also like to see the product, the newborn. Are we aware, for example, that there may be problems with using the mask all day long and even outdoors? Also, who will pay a mask every four hours to 60 million citizens? Will we make in the next decree a rule that makes the purchase of protective devices detractable? In recent weeks you, Minister, have repeatedly said that the dramatic situation of health cuts is over and the sacrifice of the country will not be wasted, precisely because of a new programming that you have presented to us very precisely in the Commission. I believe, however, that this new season will come very late, because on the recovery fund we continue to fight: the resources ready there would be and make sure that maybe Sabino Cassese is right when he says that, more than in the face of an extension of the emergency, we are faced with the extension of impotence or the extension of the inability. I wonder why no one decides on the ESM. "Because we're gonna look bad," they say, "but it's not that they really think of us in Europe with great respect. "Because we overrecover more" is added: but it is not that the recovery fund is money that gives us, because the interest to pay is higher than the almost zero interest of the ESM. We don't need welfare anymore, Sussistan. You have just said that the new decree of the President of the Council of Ministers is built on three rules: masks, distance, washing of hands. Well, I am embarrassed; it is true: President Conte is the first to use soap, because he really washes his hands of it and always sends her to the Chamber. [[Applause]] Does it take a new decree by the President of the Council of Ministers (the seventeenth) to say that there is a need for masks, distance and hand washing? Please! We would have expected that on a decree by the President of the Council of Ministers we would be told what is the path of positivity, what is the diagnostic-therapeutic-assistant path of those who are positive or have symptoms and who in most cases can be treated at home. What have you done? Are there guidelines for basic doctors who respond to the phone and do not do as they have done in recent months? Are there any guidelines for territorial assistance? How are the ASLs organized to get the swabs and the results of the buffer in 24 hours, perhaps after a positive serological test? You choose whether to make a positive serological for IgMs, which we know are the first antibodies, or for IgGs, which show that maybe the virus has been overcome and it's been months (but people are locked in the house because they don't get tampons)? What can you tell us, Minister, about the supply of antiviral medicines used in the Covid wards to treat patients? What can you tell us about heart disease, cancer and surgery? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I invite you to conclude, Senator. These are the contents of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers that we hoped to hear and not tampons, masks, distance and soap. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u67	She is registered to speak Senator Cantù. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u68	Mr President, we have heard a great deal of fine words, even very well said, but absolutely far from reality. Nor does it seem to us that you are taking advantage of what we have repeatedly submitted to you under all the circumstances in which we have had occasion to extend the state of emergency. It is now nine months and even a "difficult birth" should come to an end, instead with the request for an extension to the whole month of January 2021 revealed that these nine months have passed unnecessarily, since there is no evidence of having transformed into concrete and ordinary procedures what could initially have been justifiable that it was dealt with under extraordinary and emerging procedures. In July, when you proposed to extend the state of emergency to the entire 15th of October, we had renewed, in terms of cooperation and not competition, the indication of the path to be taken: the plan of prevention, preparation and contrast of the eventual epidemic, in which the procedures should have been explained and regulated in order to deal in a timely and appropriate manner with all the actions and interventions that seem to be indicated by the technical-scientific committee in what it has foreseen as the worst scenario to be faced in case of uncontrolled recurrence. Scenario that should have been contemplated in July to be avoided: both with regard to the regular procurement of personal protective equipment (DPI), not only the masks, but also on the side of the optimal provision of intensive and semi-intensive care places, as well as with regard to drugs and influenza vaccines, as you continue to extend the state of emergency, delegate to others the performance of your duties. In fact, to date, one in three Italians cannot be vaccinated, with the scheduled doses. Logic would like that, in order to recover in credibility, being an emergency intervention, the disproven here, with incontrovertible data, giving certainty of the fact that all Italians, in conscious adhesion, can exceptionally benefit from the anti-influenza vaccination, as an essential level of emergency assistance, and not only for the prophylaxis of the usual seasonal influence, but in how much - as it seems - bland anti-Covid antidote. You forgot about this too, deliberately and blamefully. There is no prevention without control. That is why we have continued to insist and insist on the need to strengthen controls, both in the public and in the private sector, and on the need to bring back to normal the regulation of acts of management of human and instrumental resources needs in post-emergency health, i.e. by overcoming the logic of commissioner management and remission to the Committee of decisions that should be at the head of the Minister. I think there's enough, but I'll add another suggestion. The left, which has made the "demeritocracy" one of its mantras from the seventies onwards, having invented the 18th political and making sure that those who premiered for profit should almost be ashamed of it and hide the fact of being the first of the class in the sign of "equality downwards" even profitable, has produced such and many of those disasters, of which today this Government is the proven proof of the tip of the iceberg. [[Applause]] Even what we are discussing shows that you have not been able to learn or wanted to learn from the period you have been living objectively in February, March, April - a singlecum - in order to put in place those instruments capable of facing less serious dangers with ordinaryity. We will not dwell on the ability to solve problems, because your figure is always to transfer responsibility for the work to others, so we will never know whether it is "weakness" or true "inability." The drama is that you're in the government without legitimacy, because you're a minority in the country, and if you think otherwise, then there's nothing better than going to elections. [[Applause]] , because the systematic compression of constitutional guarantees would require at least a legitimacy on the part of a substantial majority; your action will be paid obtorto neck by all the Italians of today and for the next generations: it seems unacceptable to us. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u69	Senator Pisani Giuseppe is enrolled to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u70	Mr President, sometimes I wonder what kind of world we live in. [[Applause]] Honestly, the last words spoken by my colleague, who asks a government that receives praise and recognition on a planetary level to go home, do not seem reasonable and not even so rational; however, with all respect for those who have asked for it, I accept this opinion. Taking up what my colleagues, including Mrs Castellone, have said before, we have received awards from newspapers, economists, for example Paul Krugman said that our measures have been among the best choices that could be made; we have had awards from Ghebreyesus, the Director-General of the World Health Organization; we have really been a country to avoid and now we have given a lesson; this thanks to the measures of the Government, thanks to the Minister, the Deputy Minister, the Technical and Scientific Committee with its advice and recommendations; thanks also to the diligence, intelligence and civilisation of the Italian people - we must never forget it absolutely - that it has adapted to these measures, and also to the ability and professionalism of our health system. All these determinants together have put our country first among those who have been able to effectively contain the damage and the negative consequences of this terrible pandemic. Unfortunately, the pandemic is not finished at all and until we have an effective therapeutic tool such as vaccine or a monoclonal antibody or any other drug that can destroy the virus, where it penetrates into our body, we must keep it away from us, so we must continue to observe the rules of physical distance, of hand washing and of use of the mask. In addition, I always urge colleagues to download the Immuni app, which is of great importance and useful in the case of tracking possible infections. The latest data on the evolution of the pandemic are certainly not as alarming as in the rest of the world, but they are not even so reassuring because the contagion curve tends, albeit slowly, to grow; moreover, the modes of contagion have partly changed, because the median age has now shifted towards forty years; there are more outbreaks. Yesterday the other, on the website of the Ministry of Health were 3,200 outbreaks recorded, three quarters of which of intradomicile type. The movida outbreaks have decreased a bit and those related to work activities have increased a bit. They are not alarming data, but they cause us to keep the evolution of the pandemic under control, with a great sense of responsibility. And it is on this path that we must continue. I therefore find it absolutely reasonable, understandable and justifiable to extend these measures until 31 January, which have so far enabled us to deal effectively with the epidemic. I would like to remind those who have spoken of freedom or violated freedom what our President Mattarella said: It is not necessary to confuse freedom with the right to make others sick. [[Applause]] The freedoms of each of us end where the freedoms of others begin. Therefore, to use caution and prudence and to continue with these rules does not seem to me at all that it can deprive the Italians of their freedom, where it allows the safe continuation of training activities, especially of school activities, and of course also of work activities. It does not seem to me that this is a limitation of our freedoms. That's why I told you that sometimes I wonder where I live, whether in this world and in this Italy or in another Italy designed I don't know for what political will. In addition to these short-term measures, I would like to ask the Minister for a measure that puts our environment at the centre of attention in the coming months and years. We talk a lot about environment, about ecological change, about green new deal (I hope it will finally come true), but it is before everyone's eyes that our environment is sick. We made him sick and we made him sick, man made him sick. There is an indissoluble combination, an indissoluble link between environment and health: if the environment is ill, our health cannot be considered health. I remember Pope Francis' words: we think we are healthy in a sick world. That is not the case, because the more we degrade the environment, the more we degrade and compromise our health. For me it is therefore fundamental that, in the next programming for the commitment of the resources that will come from the recovery fund, in the health mission, a specific health measure consisting in the activation, at the peripheral and territorial level (considered that it is intended to implement the activity of territorial medicine), of operating units and departments of environmental medicine, formed precisely by environmental doctors (a professional figure that in Italy lacks) and environmental operators. There are environmental technicians, but there is a lack of the professional figure of the environmental doctor, that is, the doctor who, trained specifically (therefore a school of specialization ad hoc), is able to grasp the signals of the qualitative disturbances of our environment and to immediately translate them into measures, because these signals and alterations of the environment, both of the air environment and of the terrestrial or marine environment, inevitably affect our health. These doctors should therefore have the function of being able to grasp these signals and be able to translate them into initiatives and activities both of prevention and, of course, of therapeutic strategy. To date, I repeat, unbounded, uncoordinated, non-homogeneous interventions are taking place. In my opinion and in the opinion of many colleagues, this is the figure that is missing. Mr. Minister, we have the professionalism to do this, the resources can come; let's use them in the right way. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u71	I declare closed the debate on the Minister of Health's communications. I note that motions for resolutions No 1 have been tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani and No 2 by Senators Iori, Pirro, Pharaoh, Errani and Lanièce, whose texts are distributed. I call on the Minister for Health, Mr Hope, to give his opinion on the motions for resolutions that have been tabled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u72	Mr President, I shall confine myself to giving a favourable opinion on the motion for a majority resolution and against the motion for a resolution tabled by the opposition leaders.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u73	We shall now proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u74	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u75	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u76	FARAONE (IV-PSI). Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Minister for his speech and for the work he is doing with the whole Government in managing this health emergency. Of course, I am a little surprised by the speeches made by some of my colleagues in this Senate, who have spoken about issues that are not within the measure that the government is going to take this evening. For example, there has been talk of the closure of economic activities. Well, I would like to point out that the only measure contained in the measure we are discussing - and also in the motion for a resolution tabled by the majority today in the Senate and a few hours ago in the House - is the requirement for open-air masks. Therefore, there is no restriction as regards economic activities, school activities or in relation to activities carried out by public and private offices. The only measure is what I said. On the other hand, we have heard speeches from colleagues from the opposition who have imagined a change in government measures towards a direction that is not the real one. Similarly, Minister, I would like to point out that the way in which the crisis is managed has also changed with the direct involvement of Parliament. Until a few months ago, I would remind my colleagues that the Council of Ministers met and voted on measures which it subsequently communicated to the Chambers. I would like to stress in this connection that it is a success of all of us, including oppositions, to have built a different path, so much so that yesterday the Council of Ministers met but did not take the measure until this evening following the discussion of the Chambers. I would like to see the opposition, but all of us in Parliament value this achievement, otherwise, if we continue to say that Parliament does nothing, that in the division of powers the Government continues to operate while Parliament does not produce ideas or proposals that affect the action of the Commission, it means that we are wasting time here: we have written the resolutions so much to write them and we decide to spend an afternoon in company. This is not the case: this Parliament, even with the help of the opposition, has won the right to influence and propose to the Government the most correct ways to deal with the emergency. I say this because these two facts have been denied by the interventions that preceded me, especially by the oppositions. Another fact was denied by the speeches I heard: it was discussed as if the country had not been distributed. For months, in the months of lockdown and in the months that preceded it, we all reasoned on the hypothesis of coexistence with the virus: until the vaccine is discovered, in this country we will have to build conditions so that there is a coexistence as an alternative to total closure. In these weeks we are experiencing the very coexistence with the virus. No one can compare the measures that are being implemented to the lockdown that we have experienced: that was the real tragedy, not the outdoor masks, Minister. I would like us to focus on this and understand how to continue to operate our system of protection, both individual and collective, in the organization of our country, just to ensure that there is no longer a lockdown. The biggest sponsors of the functioning of our system of protection and the failure to spread infection are the economic actors, who can only benefit from these measures of government of the health emergency. Today, anyone who wants our economy to leave and move forward does not just ask to open, but says to be careful in the management of the health emergency, otherwise you risk closing another time. This is the subject and we must measure ourselves on this. I therefore call on my colleagues in the opposition to work in practice to produce proposals in this direction. Minister, I keep saying this again because it is going to blow in my head and I also find it annoying to use the word MES, because we have repeated it so many times that, at this point, listening to it also hurts; but we continue to reiterate a concept, precisely because we share what you have said. This country has come out of a medical emergency, but it can fall back on us. In fact, the data that emerges and that you have expressed, even outside our country, must worry us, if we are not careful. Therefore, when we debate and hold on to the position you have expressed, which is to be very careful about the risk of falling back into an extraordinary health emergency, we must also take into account the economic resources that Europe has made available to us in a positive way for the management of the health emergency. What I do not understand is why this majority, but also many opposition forces, do not hold together the two issues, if there are resources for that measure, even more so when we see before the ASPs of all the regions file kilometers, hours, cars with children on board, with fever or influenced. In fact, there is no possibility to perform a swab quickly and in many people ask to verify the possible contagion; of course I am referring to all those who cannot afford the cost of a swab in a private laboratory, because the anomaly of this country continues to be present: those who have the economic availability decide quietly to climb over that row and to get the swab paying and having the possibility to understand whether it is positive or not. Pharmacies have 12 flu vaccines each. We have been told, by scientists, not by politicians, that if you prevent the flu with the vaccine... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] . . with the virus, therefore you can avoid a greater diffusion, just because through the flu the spread of the virus is wider. When you make these statements and then we find only 12 vaccines per pharmacy and there are of course preferential routes for some categories (including older people and those at risk), it means that something we still have to do. Minister, if we have EUR 37 billion to do this, I do not understand why we should not use it. [[Applause]] Mine is not ideological polemic, nor political polemic, but the misunderstanding of a fact that makes no sense. After that, we should decide to use the resources available from the recovery fund over time, not in the immediate or management of this emergency, for direct and indirect expenditure. We should decide to allocate these resources... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr Minister, you are well aware, as all colleagues who say no to the ESM should know, that those resources can be allocated to direct and indirect expenditure. When I talk about direct expenditure, I refer precisely to those measures I mentioned earlier: swabs, vaccines, immediate needs, personal protective equipment and the possibility of measuring the temperature with the thermometer in all schools. This is what we talk about when we discuss the ESM. Then there are also indirect expenditures, which are intended for the establishment of hospitals, medical specializations and more structural measures. However, we will be able to use the resources for indirect expenditure tomorrow. So unless in the head of the government there is the will to arrange a further budgetary deviation in order to manage this health phase with measures that serve the country, since the phenomena in question are destined to increase, you have to explain where we take the resources to manage this health emergency, whose existence we recognize as well. Minister, we share with you that the health emergency is there. Compared to the issues you have raised, however, we must understand how to deal with it, taking into account the current situation and what can happen if, where ever, what is happening in other European countries, the numbers should become more worrying. For this reason, we insist on the ESM: not for an ideological will, nor to put in trouble any, but simply because we are convinced that it serves the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u77	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u78	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u79	I would ask colleagues not to create assemblies in this House. Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I love listening to Mr Pharaoh's speeches, both because, having worked for 20 years at the Banco di Sicilia, he reminds me of the slang and - above all - his great ability to say something at the beginning of the speech and to close it with the exact opposite. He's just a champion in proving everything and the opposite of everything. After that, he also tells us that we have finally conquered constitutional freedoms. It is a good thing that we have finally achieved the normality of a Parliament that acts in the fullness of its powers and in respect of the division of powers! Minister, you have devoted half of your speech to a review of what is happening in Europe and Italy; all events that we - whoever, whoever else - learn from the specialized press, newspapers and television. It is obvious that we are talking about the theme of the day and, therefore, we all have the narrative. At this moment, in addition to the examination of the past nine months, which are not few, we expect from the Minister above all the solutions to be put in place in terms of prevention and contrast of a phenomenon that, as we had all more or less expected, is reassembling in Italy (even much less than in other countries) by virtue of so many elements that cross. Now, compared to the months of lockdown, we record two differences: the first is that it is no longer a piece of country that is involved; the second is that it is no longer a piece of society that involved, because this time everyone is involved, starting with the kids. In relation to this, you tell us that restrictive measures are being taken throughout Europe. Well, Minister, we really have adopted restrictive measures, while other European countries have not. What today is the difference between us and them is exactly this: the lockdown that we have adopted, the blinding of all the activities and all the Italians in their homes, has not been done by any other country and this circumstance today - I would like to say lively God - returns useful in a different course of the epidemiological curve. It could not have been otherwise, because today the others are doing what we did in March, April and May. It was inevitable that in Paris they would close the brasserie, it was absolutely inevitable that sooner or later they would. They have not done so before; our damage to GDP, the -12 percent others will not have it or at least not have it because of the lockdown in March and April; we will. With regard to all this, let us continue to tell ourselves, colleagues, a half fairy tale: we were good and everyone compliments us. Well, I remind Mr Pisani that all those who compliment us do not vote in Italy, but vote those who in Italy judge what the Government is doing. So, if you're sure, give us a legitimate government, take us to vote for a legitimate government. You see, colleagues, one of the reasons behind the failure of the serological investigation and also the failure of the Immuni app is that this government is not recognized by the people. People don't trust what this government tells them. It is quite clear that this is why the Immuni app is not downloaded; it is not a pluto-Judaic plot, it is that they do not trust the app, because you are not able to tell it, besides spending a sea of money more than what went to spend. Compared to all this today extending the state of emergency to a year is an oxymoron, constitutionally speaking, because the state of emergency is there, it has been proclaimed, even at times for over a year, but on precise circumstances, on pieces of circumscribed territory and not on all the national territory and on such general-generic themes. Therefore, today we are absolutely not in favour of extending the state of emergency, which means essentially keeping Italians in a prone position. The Italians must rise, being able to rely on a government that secures them. Moreover, Minister, I always appreciate the opportunity to speak with you, as you know, but on a subject like this we would like to have the President of the Council here, because we are talking about extending the state of emergency and continuing to condition constitutional freedoms. Therefore, if the President of the Council finds the opportunity to go to Assisi and pronounce his encyclical, go to Venice and take the merits, not his own, of the first opening of the bulkheads of the MOSE, he must also find the time to come here, President, to tell us what he prefers to tell on television and without contradictory. You need to come over here and tell us what we need to do. So, what are we gonna do? You see, Minister, we, ten months after the emergency, do not feel we can continue to formally share these measures because up to now we have relied only on half of the duties of a government, half of which is to call citizens back to their duties. We have abounded in this half, covering it extensively; we have hammered the citizens with the press, television, regulations, urban police and, now, with the Army. We have filled half and now the measure is full of what we have asked and we continue to ask the citizens. The latter, for their part, being a great people and incarnating great stories, were exceptional, much more than we were. It is the State that must answer today; it is the State that must fill its half of its duty, Minister. How do you do that? Finally adopting appropriate measures to prevent, control and combat the epidemic. It is clear and well known to everyone what we must do: adopt a pandemic plan, which is not there. It's the first thing to do. We need to test everyone, even in self-medication. He is doing so, as we learned from the press conference the day before yesterday, President Zaia. Why can't we do this all over the country? There are rapid tests that can be adopted in self-medication. Let's give them to general medicine doctors and pharmacies; those who want to buy the test, go to the pharmacy, buy it and do it. You mentioned them, they're airport tests. We have to make flu vaccines; we are talking, continuing to hammer citizens, about the need to make the flu vaccine, even the antiviral, the anti-herpes, and there are no vaccines. Pharmacies report that they have 12 vaccines at the pharmacy. What's a pharmacy doing with 12 vaccines? Explain what he's doing to us. We need to hire in health care. We put money, we gave the regions the opportunity to do so, as we said yesterday, with the August decree which expires on 31 December of this year. So there will be no material time for hiring either. We must create objective conditions in order to be able to assume in health; it is not only a question of money, but also of organization and massacred work. Minister, we must ask our scientific community, this imaginative Technical and Scientific Committee, when the viral load is capable of infecting, when a positive must perform five or six swabs, staying at home even for a few months... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] It's assumed... we can't assume he's capable of infecting. We need to know for sure. At nine months and beyond the onset of this pathogen, can we expect them to tell us when a positive without uninfected symptoms and therefore probably can continue to work and exercise its activity? Minister, we need to update the protocols to the virus mutation. Today, for example, there is a paradox; I will ask the President of the 12th Commission a hearing with the Italian Drug Agency (AIFA) on the use of hydroxochloroquine. You do not understand why it has become something that you cannot use and to administer it you must ask for authorisation, time at time, from AIFA. This is crazy. We have to give everyone back... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] . . the time in general discussion and therefore I ask whether I use a few more seconds.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u80	She had ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u81	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Yes, but we had six minutes in general discussion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Please, I gave you the floor. Mr Zaffini (FdI). Thank you, Mr President, but I have concluded. We must finally provide general medical doctors with personal protective equipment; they do not all have it. It's not true that everyone has it, they don't have it, and general medical doctors are the front office of our National Health Service. When the patient develops symptoms - and in a few days we will have all the symptoms related to flu syndrome - it is evident that he calls his general medical doctor. And the doctor can't stay on the other side of the phone because he doesn't go home to visit; they don't go home to visit, they don't go there. And people are thrown there, hoping that the good God and his immune defenses will manage to get them through a disease that, perhaps, is not even diagnosed, because the swab does it after five to six days. All of this, Minister, calls us to cover that other half of our responsibilities. We do not always ask others, that is, citizens, to be responsible, serious, attentive, prudent and prudent. We're starting to do that, too, nine months after the state of emergency statement. We have 36,000 dead on our shoulders. To these 36,000 deceased, to their families, to their communities we have a duty to give a response of seriousness and competence. All this must be adopted and adopted quickly. You want to extend the state of emergency and you will do it: democracy is based on numbers and, therefore, you will make the extension of this state of emergency. Use it, however, to take effective measures. No [[. (The microphone switches off automatically.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u82	Senator Zaffini, I urge you again to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u83	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. So, Minister, I must tell you unfortunately that your courtesy, your bonomy and your somewhat demo-Christian speaking, from here on out, as I have already told you, will no longer be sufficient. We need an answer, we need something more. Colleagues, I would like to draw attention to our sense of responsibility, which I recognise to be general throughout this House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u84	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u85	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u86	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am a little impressed by the speeches of this debate. I don't usually argue, but this time I want to make one compared to some speeches. I would like to inform you that the confidence in this Government, precisely in relation to the management of the Covid-19, has been demonstrated by how the Italians have responded to the Government's indications. And if you needed a signal, you had it with the last election. Enough of this talk! That's enough. Let's stop with legitimacy and non-legitimacy. At least on one point, the Italians understood and responded positively. The data show that the strategy pursued by this Government has worked best compared to many other countries in the world. It's an objective fact. Mr Minister, let me say that first of all, thanks go to your consistency and commitment, as you have been acknowledged, and also to the commitment of the Government and Parliament. Why, ladies and gentlemen, do we not recognize this fact? It doesn't mean there's no problem. There are problems and some I will raise them too. On such a difficult, unprecedented and absolutely challenging passage for people's lives, however, it would be important for us to be able to recognize ourselves in a result that belongs to everyone. It is not only the government, but everyone, also the opposition and even those who said that there was no need for lockdown, that everything had to be kept open, except then, forty-eight hours later, to say that everything had to be closed. Of course, none of us were prepared. We didn't have the skills. So, it is understandable that this has happened, but the result that today allows us to have a profoundly different data than other countries is a very important fact, let's keep it, let's value it and learn from mistakes, as I have tried to say several times. At least today I have not heard support for the idea that there was an extension of the emergency to avoid the government crisis. This has pleased me, because it is a step forward on your part, which I appreciate, in the maturation of a different reasoning. After that, there's another problem. Why do we get to the state of emergency? On this, in time of peace, in my opinion, it would be right to reason, because the entire legislative system of this country with respect to the function of civil protection, to the modalities of organization, is linked to this procedure, but the freedom of citizens is not in question. Today we are not talking about lockdown, we are not talking about questioning these elements, we are trying to find the best way to prevent it from swirling, as happened in August, between underestimation and panic. Halfway between the two is the government and there is the ability to handle the situation. The numbers, the data, the identification of the outbreaks tell us that we are managing the phenomenon and this is the message that I trust the whole Parliament wants to give and that no one wants to say otherwise. After that, I too think we need to take a few steps forward. Firstly, the Minister rightly said that coordination with the regions must be strengthened. Here, Minister, there is a problem: one cannot once say that the Regions can simply and only restrict the rules, the time after they can also expand them and then again that they can restrict them. The time has come to establish concretely and clearly what the relationship between the State and the Regions is and to clarify that the management of the pandemic must be truly coordinated, because, beyond those who are first in the class, with an interview or post, there is the problem of ensuring certainty to the citizens. I have already pointed this out in the previous debate, again on this subject. Minister, I think it must be decided that, after the debate, after the debate, after the scientific committee's reflection, while respecting scientific autonomy, the choice on this or that issue should be one, but there can be no further discussion, at least with regard to the position of the Government and the Ministry. Then there are strategic choices, we have already said, starting with the issue of waiting lists; colleagues have put it: right, right, and indeed I am concerned. We are working on it, because, ladies and gentlemen, you know that on the beds of intensive care and on the territory there is a work in progress - it is not that there are only statements - coordinated by the competent Ministry in close relationship with the regions. Minister, I am also concerned that, if the issue of waiting lists is simply dealt with through outsourcing and without an overall plan to reorganize the health system in this sense and services, the risk is that we will go to a strategic and definitive outsourcing; from this point of view, it would be a problem. The second problem I put to you is as follows. I read an interesting interview with Professor Garattini. You, Minister, your Ministry and the Government have moved very well on the issue of vaccine, but it is clear that there is a wider problem in the relationship between large pharmaceutical companies, the forms by which we define so-called innovative medicines and the function of EMA. We need a European project if we are to manage this situation. Let's face it: the reason why we still don't have a vaccine compared to Sars, which is part of the Covid family, is simply because the reasoning about added value compared to research didn't bring the accounts back. Look, this is a huge problem. In the United States of President Trump - so I avoid being misunderstood - we are thinking strategically about this point, and I believe that Europe must deal with it as soon as possible; otherwise, we will be faced with surprises compared to the process of strategic innovation that pharmacology has in the world. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u87	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u88	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u89	VALENT (PD). Mr President, I am sincere: I would have hoped to begin my speech by saying that a few weeks ago, when we faced this same debate, we were wrong; that our predictions, as someone said in this House, were excessive and that, apart from good or bad faith, the picture we were considering was certainly very far from reality. This morning, beyond the news that appeared in the press, the sober, rigorous, responsible and serious words of Minister Hope, on behalf of this Government, I believe that they nail all of us to a difficult and bitter truth. I say this by replying first to Senator Romeo, who, in some way trying to make a parallel between this phase and that of the most acute period of lockdown, said that basically, if we compare the number of infected to the swabs, we are not then in a stage as dramatic as it is described. That's if I've interpreted your words well, Senator Romeo. I think that the words of Minister Hope - and we have all listened to them - have actually told quite another truth, namely that we are certainly not in the situation in March-April - it is in everyone's eyes - and we hope not to get there again. The theme is that from March to April, thanks also to the measures taken, the sense of responsibility, the abnormal sacrifice of our structures, the National Health Service, our operators, the Italians who responded well, that curve had begun to bend and in July and August we had reached levels of contagion and employment of the places in intensive care substantially very low. From that moment the curve began to climb again and here is the worrying figure: it is not the comparison between this moment and the months of March and April, but between this moment and the months of July and August. It is at that time that we must make reference to tell ourselves to be careful: it is not alarm, but it is definitely alert. Hence the sense of the words, spoken with calmness, but also with firmness, with which the Minister and the Government are being asked at this time to extend the state of emergency. The data that Minister Hope has told us photograph a reality different from that of other countries and different from what it could be; it is data that impose on us above all a great responsibility, because right now we cannot fail. It is then clear that cooperation would have been expected first of all - I say this with calmness too, I try - because I believe that there are phases and phases and that perhaps, in the face of a historical passage like what we are experiencing, we could hope for tones far from propaganda. I have heard in this House not to ride fear from which of the fears of this country has made a propaganda tool for years. [[Applause]] We passed those decrees yesterday. Perhaps it would take a little intellectual honesty not to tell us that we are riding fears, beyond the fact that, to tell the truth, we do not even understand for what purpose. I sincerely believe that none of us has envied in recent months the position of Minister Hope or the Government in having to adopt measures that would somehow give more power to the Government: the power to limit the freedom of citizens? Do you see a government that enjoys and builds consensus in limiting the freedom of citizens? I don't think so. Instruments have been adopted which, when dramatically and inevitably necessary, have limited the freedom of citizens. I have heard again in this House that we are going in the direction of once again restricting freedom to citizens. I remember that we have been in this difficult balance for months: on the one hand, safety and health; on the other, citizens' freedom. It is up to us, politics, Parliament and the Government to find the right balance and it is not easy. Right relationship with science, therefore, not abdication of a function, because there is a difference between giving up a function and understanding that it is time to take a step not backwards, but perhaps on the side, because the situation is so delicate that we cannot make mistakes. There are data, there are experts, but above all there is science, which is competence and knowledge, which can say and suggest to politics the correct reading of the phase. Then politics takes on its responsibilities. In this respect, with regard to the issue of taking responsibility and the use of instruments which would in some way limit Parliament's role, I would say that we are here and I believe that this debate is proof that Parliament is being asked to give its opinion first, simply to allow the government, when it should ever be necessary, to take measures in time to be effective. The issue therefore is not to give a blank proxy. Nobody thinks they can give a blank proxy to the government, and I don't think the executive has come here to ask for it. The government has come here again to report, as it has done in recent months. We could have had this debate a few months ago, even if I honestly have to say that the intellectual honesty of this House would really demand that everyone should recognize that these months have not passed in vain. The Government itself has used those powers, which have been given to it with a pronunciation of Parliament, to the greatest extent possible. There has never been an abnormal instrumentation, nor have there been any abnormal choices and, moreover - as Senator Errani said - perhaps the citizens, even before the vote, with the desire to participate in those choices and with the sense of responsibility with which they agreed to adapt, have shown to hold them wise. Again - let me say this - a joke would be easy, which I do only and always for a question of intellectual honesty: it is never possible to listen to criticism on that political side that asked for full powers with a mojito on a beach [[Comments]] , with regard to the Government which comes here to the Assembly, with rigour, sobriety and calmness, to tell us that instruments may be necessary, which will then be assessed from time to time whether and how to use them? Moreover, the same decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers are advanced to the Chambers and at least in terms of direction Parliament can say its own. So we treasure, evidently, a journey and an experience that we have behind us. Is it possible, frankly, that this criticism is believed to be credible? Then we need intellectual honesty, rigour, seriousness and transparency. There has also been a criticism here, which I felt was perhaps one of the right ones and which, at least on my part, is acceptable. It has been asked to understand what the plan is, which direction we are going and whether the government has built the conditions to deal with another emergency, should the numbers get worse and to such an extent as to stress our National Health System. One wonders, therefore, how we have equipped ourselves. In this case, politics, which is usually accused of being the policy of "wish" and "do" and "say," brought numbers, which nail all of us to truths, which we cannot ignore. Mr Hope has told us that we have started with 5,000 intensive care posts, we are at 8,000 and we will arrive, thanks to the resources allocated to one of the measures approved by Parliament at this stage - we cannot therefore talk about a blocked democracy and a parliamentary job that is not done, indeed - even 115 percent of the additional posts, that is to say 11,000 posts. So it seems to me that there is a plan and that the most important, most mature and most necessary answer is basically this. So we acted, and we did it with rigour and a sense of responsibility. We are once again going to manage the current phase and we are asking everyone to participate and make statements, taking into account what we have before us. Nobody dreams of asking for full powers: no one in this House dreams of doing so! Minister Hope didn't do it and neither did the government. A mandate is required to intervene if the situation gets worse, and no one can know. Science certainly helps us read a curve, but telling what the situation here is going to be in 20 days maybe it gets complicated. Then we must give the opportunity to intervene. There are the decree-laws, of course, but we know that they require times perhaps not appropriate to have effective answers in the face of a worsening of the situation. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I've heard so many things and these days I see our teachers going to school while their families are at home, but they want to keep the school system up, because this is the best protection of our children's safety. I also see workers in the health system, who have not only spent themselves before, but continue to do so now. We are still asking our communities for so many sacrifices and, if we really want to honour them at their best, the best answer is not only to express words of appreciation, to vote for our motion for a resolution, but also to think that, in the face of such situations, the tones of propaganda and political controversy must leave the pace to the sense of responsibility, intellectual honesty, rigour and common sense that I have heard in today's debate. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u90	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u92	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Forza Italia was the first political force to denounce the danger of Covid: since 30 January in this House, in the presence of Minister Speranza, Forza Italia has asked that this danger be tackled very seriously, that measures be taken in relation to flights also indirectly from China, that the use of masks be considered. We're talking about January 30th, the day before the government approved the state of emergency. Three days later, on 3 February, as a result of the state of emergency, the leaders of majority and opposition were summoned to Palazzo Chigi - also on that occasion rightly there was the Minister of Health Hope - and the President of our Group, Senator Bernini, asked the Government to pay particular attention to a number of points, reaffirming what had already been said about the masks, compared to which it was not enough to wish to use them, but it was necessary Get them. Our requests made there, at Palazzo Chigi, were, however, ignored and even snubbed: on the masks we were answered: "We will see". The need had been advanced to stop or closely control flights from China even indirectly, in case they came from a particularly infected area; now we know that the world has changed since then, but the epidemic comes from there, and not from elsewhere; moreover, we had asked for a control of the many Chinese children who returned to schools, in the sense of subjecting them to quarantine: a measure that today seems banal, but that we asked for on February 3. Senator Bernini, not alone but also supported by other Leaders of the center-right, was ignored in such requests. In that month of February, i.e. in the month since the government passed the state of emergency until something really began to be done - at the beginning of March the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers began to flood, the restrictions, and so on - not only did they not work to procure the masks, but they were even given to China 18 tons of aid, in terms of protections and other equipment to deal with the epidemic. It was a noble gesture, but it could be done once Italian emergencies have been provided, as China certainly is the country with the greatest availability of liquid money in the world and perhaps not in need of those tons of aid. Although this will certainly have brought some benefit, in that month Italy was neglected, not only for what was given to others, but also because we did not equip ourselves to produce what was necessary, to which we thought only when the masks and other individual protections began to become almost spontaneously mandatory, with everything that followed. I mean, there was an extraordinary slowness. On that occasion, in the face of the first decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, we have maintained a sense of great responsibility. Since we first denounced the danger, we have also consistently facilitated with parliamentary procedures the government's task of putting in place remedies, of putting in place measures to prevent the further expansion of the epidemic, which in the meantime became pandemic, also giving full availability to the Commission through the presentation of a series of proposals. From the Government, and especially from Minister Hope with particular grace, we have received a series of expressions of readiness to our proposals, which have remained statements. In concrete terms, we have always seen an attitude of closure; we have had it from the beginning, since February, when we proposed severe and strong measures to prevent the outbreak from spreading. But we also had it recently, when we called for a real moratorium, a real postponement of so many tax deadlines. [[Applause]] We have asked not to send millions of billing folders, many of which we know are unfounded; it is the famous crazy folders, a strange thing for which no one is ever responsible. The executives, who may even feel a bonus for having done so many investigations, never pay for their responsibilities when they send exorbitant requests to people who have absolutely not committed any infringement and evasion. This already happens in normal times; but, these days, asking people to pay in proportion to the income they received in 2019, when in 2020 many activities were closed and incurred costs without having any income, is seriously irresponsible, as well as unfair. [[Applause]] We had an attitude of closure on the part of the Government, which unfortunately we saw replying just a few minutes ago, when Minister Hope, called to represent the government's position in relation to the motions for resolutions tabled, expressed very quickly, but without any explanation, a favourable opinion on the majority resolution - and that was normal - which substantially reflected the words he himself expressed - for which no explanation was actually required - and simply said "no" to our demands. On the question of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers we will return; you have a different position and it is normal for you to reject our request to act in accordance with the Constitution, namely with a decree-law. But let's leave it alone; on this we will return. We have also asked the Government - four points, we have not presented so many - to identify and implement concrete measures to prevent and combat the spread of the virus, providing a reasonable number of swabs and influenza vaccines. He told us "no" about this too, without giving any explanation. I do not believe that you, Minister, are opposed to setting up an adequate number of influenza vaccines, but the fact of saying "no', just because the signatures were those of the opposition leaders, is exactly the opposite of being available to the opposition's proposals, which is a very important part of the country, apparently - among other things - major. [[Applause]] You also said "no" to our request to review the guidelines on the isolation of classes and pupils in case of suspected contagion, in order to guarantee the right to study and teaching continuity. He may say "no," but it would have been nice to give an explanation about it. I have to say that, with the deterioration of the parliamentary life we have witnessed in this parliamentary term, explaining has become more than a rare, almost extravagant thing, whereas this is what Parliament is for, to tell the citizens who wants to do something and why. This should be of use to Parliament, but since someone has not understood what it is for, then they are trying to massacre Parliament in every way. We have supported preventive and prudent measures from the outset, but we have also mentioned the serious costs involved. There are economic costs - and I think it is obvious to everyone - but there are also health costs, Minister for Health. How much diagnostic activity, how much therapeutic activity, how much surgery was postponed or even canceled because there was Covid? There are times when priority must be chosen, but - be careful - it must also be borne in mind that the priority is first and foremost the health of citizens, so if one person is ill about another disease, one must see that one aspect is not focused on one aspect alone. As has also been said by representatives of the majority, there will probably be an increase in mortality due to this health "monoculture." We have to face things with a sense of reality; we need transparency and clarity. I take the example of the promise, given for sure, even approved and written down, to guarantee a tax credit of 60% for the sanitization activity of the companies. Great. Many entrepreneurs, even with important plans of great financial commitment, have drawn up plans on the basis of this rule, and then find themselves reduced from 60 to 9%, having, that is, five sixths of the sums committed not covered for lack of funds. The government must face reality using the methods provided for in the Constitution, which speaks of decree-laws, only decree-laws. The decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers serve for an activity that is under the law; especially when the constitutional freedoms are limited it is unthinkable to use this instrument, all the more so when, due to the emergency, very strange rules are established. I remember that we still do not know how much the new benches, the famous wheelchairs, have been paid, which, according to many people, are absolutely useless. We still don't know how much they've been paid. [[Applause.]] We do not know to which companies they were ordered, because the only company that jumped out was basically a forerunner, being people with 400,000 euros of turnover who had to execute an order of 44 million. We ask the Government for seriousness, a sense of reality, respect for the Constitution and the citizens who have made so many sacrifices and have seen so many deaths. There is a need for an absolute sense of reality and - I repeat - respect for citizens: do not promise what you cannot maintain and do anything to raise the country. We do this every day with our proposals, which we ask them to be heard, or else you take responsibility for them, especially as you use instruments not provided for in the Constitution. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u93	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u95	CENTINARY (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we agree with the statements made by Senator Errani when he tells us that this is a result of everyone: it is true, my colleague, it is a result of everyone, and we say it with the same intellectual honesty as the one who reminded us of the famous history of mojito, full powers, etc. Let us remember that it is a result of all, but it is a result, dear colleagues, even of those who came to Milan, traveling from Rome, to do the aperitifs saying that nothing would happen and then took the Covid. [[Applause. Comments.]] President, if we start like this, that's not good. We also remind those who said "Bergamo don't stop!" and then go on vacation in Formentera. It is also a result of those who said "Milan does not give up" and participated in the movida. We also remind those who said that patients who cannot be treated are allowed to die, and then be denied by their medical brother. We remember it out of intellectual honesty. [[Applause.]] Minister, it is from the beginning of the pandemic that we are inviting you to a more shared and prudent management of what is the state of emergency. No one's saying the state of emergency isn't right right right now. Let's just say that the state of emergency needs to be managed in a different way than you are managing it. We want to be involved. We are asking not for the minority to be involved, but for Parliament to be involved, which is totally different. Minister, your management leaves some concerns both from a technical and practical point of view. From a technical point of view, the state of emergency was declared on 31 January until 31 July; then, come here and tell us that it is extended to 15 October. Now come back to us that you are extending it to 31 January 2021: a year of emergency, which is totally contrary to what the President-in-Office of the Council said on 21 May. The President-in-Office told us on 21 May: We cannot afford to prolong the effectiveness of such restrictive measures for an indefinite period. A liberal and democratic system cannot tolerate the compression of fundamental rights. [[Applause]] Gian Marco Centinario didn't say it: Count said it! [[Applause]] That's what you did, though. That's what you did. The result, Minister, President, is an unprecedented institutional chaos, which led the most important constitutionalists to wonder what was going on in our country. Chaos in the relations between State and Regions: casually some Regions - casually, because everything that other Regions did, such as Campania or Lazio, was fine, indeed it became a case to follow - whatever they did was not good. Let's think about Sardinia. As I have already said in this House - I always repeat the same - President Solinas has been treated as the last of the freaks: he was simply saying what you are saying right now. Confusion between the state and local authorities: even between the state and the municipalities there was confusion, so much so that the ANCI, on more than one occasion, criticized you in the management of your measures. Embarrassing, then, Minister, the relationship between the legislative power and the executive power, between the Government and Parliament, with Parliament as a simple ratifyer of the decisions of the Government. We must stand here and listen and applaud what the government decides, but the legislative power is what the people represent, it is what the people elected to decide! [[Applause]] It is not you and the technicians who paid and overpaid President Conte, but it is we - not the minority, but the whole Parliament - House and Senate, who have to give directions to the government. Instead, Minister, we continue with the shameless use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, in the absence of legal and factual presuppositions. Nor do they respect the procedures laid down for the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and we are the spectators of your decisions. The problem is that you are dealing with provisions restricting individual freedoms: freedom of movement, limited freedom of assembly, limited freedom of religion, limited freedom of religion, limited right to education, limited freedom of economic initiative, limited freedom of personal freedom, limited freedom of movement. These limitations should have a rank of law or an act of law. It's the ABC of law. [[Applause]] The invitation that I address to you, Minister, and which I address to President Conte, is to come to Parliament and confront Parliament. There are decrees, you come to Parliament and we compare. Then there is the whole practical point of view. Your decisions, which you make, do not know who - with us you do not make them; maybe you make them with your advisors or with whom you want - impact on the real life of our citizens, who suffer and have to suffer them. Minister, we share your view that caution is needed; but caution must also be exercised in administering public affairs. You can't administer the public thing like it's your own home. You are not administering your condo: you are managing our country and it is a totally different thing. We fully agree and endorse the Minister's idea of the three fundamental rules: masks, non-assembling and compliance with hygiene standards. We also very much share the view, Minister, that controls must be increased in order to punish the wrongdoers. We can't think that there are people who get away with it and think they're living in the Bengodi country. Minister, however, we also think that, if we have to use the Army, we must use it for everyone, and not only for pensioners who do not use masks, but also for those who come from outside our borders and think of entering our home and living in the country of Bengodi. [[Applause]] Minister, we would like to remind you of a few things on which we ask you to speak. Everyone talked about the school today. Don't tell us everything's okay. You can't do it. Any teacher you talk to puts his hands in his hair. I challenge and invite the Minister, the President of the Council and Minister Azzolina to go to schools, but without warning first. We choose three schools (one in the North, one in the Centre and one in the South) where we go without warning and see what really happens in them. As for health, are you foreseeing a possible crisis such as that which occurred last winter? We cannot say that we were not prepared, as you had time to prepare yourselves, just as Minister Azzolina had time during the summer to prepare for our children's access to schools. [[Applause]] I turn to trade, industry and tourism issues. President Conte told us that no one would fail and remain behind. That's enough and it's going on. Go and see what happens in our streets, in companies, in the tourism and catering sectors or in the premises. Will President Conte, in his own pocket, repay the people to whom he had promised that they would not be left behind? I do not mention the problem of the integration fund, although it is also a long one. The other day we were with people who told us they hadn't received it since June and we're in October. Who feeds these people's children? Do you, Minister, President Conte or who promised that the Integration Fund would be paid in real time? [[Applause]] Mr President, I begin to conclude in a few seconds, although please be gracious because Senator Pharaoh has given extra minutes. I'll finish with two requests. As for the first, I would ask you, Minister, to check health costs in the various Italian regions. Check it out. Table 2.17 of the document of the National Anti-corruption Authority shows the expenditure, per infected by Covid, in the various Italian Regions. We understand that the patients of Covid must be pampered and over-curated, but perhaps some questions we have to ask if one Region spends 76,000 euros for each sick person and others, instead, spend 14,000 or 5,000 euros. In Campania Region they spend 76.000 euros for every sick person in Covid, while in Calabria Region - I'm not talking about Bolzano - they spend only 14.000. So either President De Luca has found the miraculous cure and is spending who knows what, or Covid's patients in Campania are in the 5-star hotels. I repeat that we have to ask ourselves some questions: 76,000 euros per sick person is a theft compared to what other Italian regions spend. [[Applause]] Ask President De Luca where that money is spent, since it is much more than the average of the rest of Italy. Minister, I would like to ask you the question I asked you last time, which you did not answer. Our colleague, Senator Monti, who we never see, was appointed last August to the World Health Organization for his health skills. We wonder if it helped you or our country, or if it is the usual appointment that is made in favor of friends of friends of friends. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u96	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u97	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u98	Toninelli (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to extend the state of emergency, on which we have heard so many, perhaps too many words spoken in this House this afternoon. I can tell you right away that this extension is necessary, just and necessary and serves to protect and protect the health of Italians and, consequently, to protect and protect our economy, because no revival of the economy can be achieved without first having kept the health of the Italian people in safety. This choice derives from the sense of responsibility with which the Italian Government has managed the last difficult months, but it must also be reiterated that the extension of the state of emergency - whatever some dune say - does not mean lockdown, because this falsehood exists only for those who prefer the propaganda of fake news to serious politics. [[Applause]] It would have been enough to read the rules to understand that this was not the case. The decree of extension did not close and does not close anyone in the house; on the contrary, it puts in place the conditions precisely to prevent this from happening, thanks to more immediate and effective instruments of protection from contagion. So, there's no need for unnecessary alarms. We do not need to put in place a strategy of terror, so dear to some political force, just as we do not need to diminish the situation we have experienced and we are still living. This is also unacceptable for many reasons. From February to today we have experienced many different situations. We were overwhelmed by a real tsunami that my Region in particular, Lombardy, suffered in a heartbreaking way. We've seen an incredible increase in infection. We've seen an incredible number of deaths. We saw military vehicles leaving Bergamo loaded with coffins. We have unfortunately witnessed a follow-up of actions by the Regional Council led by the centre-right, which have been translated into investigations. [[Applause]] and in judicial investigations that have deeply affected and upset every Lombardy. And when the situation began to improve slightly, in addition to the damage, the mockery came, with the negationists and with those who here in the Senate even organized a conference refusing to wear the mask: a real insult to all the doctors and nurses who every day work at the forefront in hospitals, to the people who have become ill, to those who have lost their lives for the Covid, to the family and friends who have had to watch from afar the torment of the disease of someone they loved. Luckily in Italy there were and still there are serious and responsible people and not the negationists or the uncertain of the Covid, those who on even days asked to close everything and in those odd to reopen everything. However, we are calling for more cooperation and a sense of responsibility on the part of all citizens from now on. Important months await us: let's take them to get out of this devastating period as soon as possible. We have a better starting point than many other countries in the world; better because we have been rigorous in preparing the rules to follow and the Italians have been rigorous in respecting them. To them goes our most heartfelt thanks. [[Applause]] It is certainly not the time to let go of the grip today or to let the tension go down, because it is a challenge that we all win together. We are all Italians and we all have to row in the same direction, but this will happen if the whole policy acts responsibly. We ask those who denied the danger of Covid to meet the wishes of a certain part of the electorate who did not share the anti-pandemic prevention measures. We ask those who did not respect the rules of social distance and use of masks, despite their public roles. [[Applause]] We ask those who attacked the choice to close the clubs and then find themselves infected, along with many other people. [[Applause]] We ask the central government and regional administrators and local authorities to act in unison, without any more controversy and unload, because we have had to endure too much. We ask those who even spoke of an Italy as a "subsidist," that is, a country based on subsidies, but let's not forget that, of the hundred billion and beyond destined by the Government in all the decrees issued in 2020, about 50% was precisely destined for companies. Then it is woe to think that, if people are given money, they are subsidies and that, if they are given to businesses, they are instruments of development and competitiveness. [[Applause]] In this sense, Mr President, I would like to recall the unnecessary and harmful raising of shields against citizenship income. Blessed is the income of citizenship, especially in a difficult period such as what we have experienced, from which we have not yet completely come out. [[Applause.]] Finally, we ask those who have attacked the Minister of Education Azzolina throughout the summer who, unlike those who challenged her, worked continuously to allow the regular reopening of schools in September. [[Applause. Comments.]] I repeat: the regular reopening of schools in September. The reopening, Mr President, has taken place. It is clear that zero risk will never exist, but it is equally clear that this Government has put much more into school than any other European country in terms of security investments. We had to hear nonsense about plexiglass and other fake news just to discredit the work that has been done; continue attacks against students, families and teachers. Today we are the only country in the world that sends 11 million surgical masks every day for free in 19,000 Italian schools. [[Applause]] It is an objective fact that is not found in any other country in the world. The school belongs to everyone, Mr President, just as everyone has the right to be treated. They are principles of our Constitution that many and many have forgotten for the mere rip-off taste of picking up some votes that were losing. Italians deserve a state that is up to their expectations, that protects them and cares for them when needed; a state where there are no more A-series citizens and B-series citizens in receiving health care; where doctors, nurses and health workers are treated as they deserve. In fact, you cannot call them heroes and then assume them as precarious, as is happening in Lombardy, where a ban of almost 300 million euros has started assigned nothing less than to three giants of temporary work for the selection of thousands of nurses and health workers. How can you not praise the hospitals on the outskirts, in the front line in the fight against the pandemic, like those of the Provinces of Lodi and Cremona, and then close entire departments, if not even whole hospital. This must not happen again. [[Applause]] Money is now there because on health care it has stopped cutting as it has happened for too long in a past even recent. But the money has to be much better than before. We want stronger and better-rooted public health on the ground. On the point we are working and we have worked. We do not want private health care that takes half the public money to manage only the most profitable part of it, what is convenient - this is happening and has happened in the last decades in Lombardy - leaving to the public the most complex and less profitable subjects. [[Applause.]] All this must end, as the revolving doors between politics and the summits of the colossus of private health must end. He revenges the appointment of the former president of the Lombardy Region, Roberto Maroni, at the top of the largest group of private health care existing in Lombardy. And all this confirms, once again, that Italy must have a just, serious and rigorous law against the conflict of interests. [[Applause]] : another milestone that Italians have been waiting for for decades and that no other party has ever really wanted. But now the times are ripe for this too. The time is there, but we can only bring all these results home if we continue to create the conditions for the country to live, move and work safely, but doing so at full speed, inviting everyone to continue to respect the prevention measures and to defend themselves with the tools put in place by this Government, including the Immuni app that helps us to know if we have been in contact with positive people at Covid. Let us start from here, with a cross-cutting appeal to download it and to have it downloaded to everyone, even those who have had the courage to invite people not to do so. Let's start here, with this signal of national unity and I'm sure the Italians would appreciate it. Let us not forget that the reaction of our country has been praised by the international community. The last statement of esteem came from the World Health Organization, which has never failed to highlight how the Italian model has been successful in the management of the emergency. It is precisely this precautionary and preventive attitude that has allowed our country to manage this coronavirus better than many other countries. Now that the cases of Covid-19 have returned to increase in an important way, extending the state of emergency is really the only way to continue to be ready at all times; that readiness that everyone recognizes us; that readiness that, according to some studies, has allowed us to avoid tens of thousands of deaths. [[Applause. The president asked some senators to remove the signs on display.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u99	Before voting, I warn you that, in line with established practice, motions for resolutions will be put to the vote in the order of presentation and for the parties not excluded or absorbed by previous votes. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of motion for a resolution No 1 tabled by Senators Bernini, Romeo and Ciriani. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Iori and other senators to vote on the motion for a resolution No 2 simultaneously. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). This concluded the communications of the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u100	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u101	You have the right to do so. I beg colleagues not to assemble. We just finished an emergency discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u102	CANDURA (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday afternoon in Treviso, in my hometown, the secretaries of the three most representative trade union names, CGIL, CISL and UIL, came to meet the employees of the Canova airport in Treviso, which together with Venice constituted the third pole of Italy after Rome and Milan in the ante Covid era and which has been closed since March. Employees are on the cashier's account, probably until March of next year. The whole sector, that small, large economic ecosystem that gravitated around the airport, is paralyzed. Many companies - I am referring to the catering sector, the tourist reception sector, even local transport systems, taxis, but also companies serving the airport itself - are in crisis, at risk of being closed down. From Treviso there is no demand for financial aid, the appeal is not for a minimum wage. In fact, it depends before the Minister of the environment Costa the demand of a masterplan for the optimization, the widening and the environmental sustainability of the same airport, to private capital. In essence the management companies SAVE and AerTre have allocated more than 50 million euros for this vital project to make the airport profitable in the hypothesis that hopefully this crisis from Covid ends next year. The appeal, therefore, which I make on behalf of so many citizens of Treviso today in difficulty is not an economic request, but it is an appeal for the majority to be sensitive to the cry of pain of so many who are losing their jobs in Treviso and therefore ask Minister Costa to absent and sign the authorization, since however already twice the EIA committee has expressed itself favorably. Consequently, there is no reason to prevent the expansion of our airport, especially since, in view of the Milan-Cortina Winter Olympics, the airport is from a logistical point of view. We cannot understand, in Treviso, why one ignores the difficulty, in an age of economic crisis, for so many people and families who seem distant here in Rome, but I assure you that going back to the territory and meeting these people personally hurts. I therefore ask this majority, who may now be distracted (maybe later in the video) to act in the sense already requested by the mayor of Treviso Conte, by a motion of the council majority, but even by representatives of the local PD, who reproach the League for being passive about the expansion of the airport itself. Pay attention to this problem and invite Minister Costa, kindly or not, to sign the authorization for the masterplan in the name of the good of so many citizens, some of whom in the past also voted for the left branch of this Chamber. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u103	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u104	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u105	VONO (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was enough for it to start raining again to bring back the problem of hydrogeological disruption, to bring down bridges, to damage roads and, more seriously, to cause victims. However, we cannot blame only the bad weather which has fallen with particular violence, but we must take concrete action to prevent this succession of tragedies and not let what is happening for the bridge of Albiano Magra, collapsed in April 2020. Italy Viva immediately intervened in the question time with Minister De Micheli to speed up the appointment of an extraordinary commissioner in charge of setting up the work as a matter of urgency. This happened with the appointment of the then president of the Tuscany Rossi Region. But, six months after the event, nothing has actually been achieved and in September we proposed an urgent question to the ministers of De Micheli and Costa to highlight the serious inconveniences and isolation of the citizens of the whole area affected by the collapse of the bridge, even prevented in access to first aid health services. Today, with the certainty that the Ministers questioned intervene with determination, we urge particular attention to begin work on the construction of the two ramps of access to the highway, so that the mayors of the territory are working in unison and, in parallel, continue in a speedy manner with the definitive construction of the bridge. I conclude by asking that the Government and also Minister Costa, of which I have read some interview given, repent because, precisely in the light of a situation that is becoming unmanageable for the territories of our Italy, it is necessary to restore as soon as possible the technical structure of mission for the hydrogeological failure. The restoration of this technical structure, having as its task that of caring for coordination, planning and risk management in Italy, would have allowed a more precise and effective control of the phenomena that, to date, cannot be controlled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u106	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u107	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u108	Arrigoni (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to speak with regard to the maxi amendment and a statement by the General Accountant of the State on an amendment, adopted unanimously in the Budget Committee, which concerns the enhanced superbonus for interventions in the damaged areas of the 2009 earthquake crater in Abruzzo and Central Italy in 2016. The General Accounting Office of the State claimed a lack of financial cover and had asked for it to be deleted. Except that the Government has foreshadowed this measure for the expenses to be carried out by 31 December 2020, i.e. the day after tomorrow, a handful of weeks in which a citizen, who may have been waiting for two to three months for the reconstruction process, should abandon it to approach according to the interventions of the superbonus, which should be carried out in two or three months. You understand that this is a mockery, so I make a heartfelt appeal - I see here the representatives of the Government - so that in one of the next measures, certainly in the budget law, we can put our hand on this rule and extend it for at least two or three years. Otherwise, after the many pre-election walkways and the many promises that fell into the void, there could be yet another mockery for the earthquake communities for which, four years later, reconstruction is at 6.5 percent. We therefore trust that the Government will be prepared to extend this deadline. The League will prick it through questions and amendments so that it can be put in black and white. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u109	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u110	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u111	MARINO (IV-PSI). Mr President, I rise not only to point out that I took part in the vote, but that there is one problem that I would like to address. Taking part in the session from the diplomatic corps forums, with a connection that came and went, with difficulty I was able to vote for the first time. As I was a little old in Parliament's classrooms, I then went to ask for the voting record. At the second vote, on the other hand, the tablet showed that I had voted in favour - there were Senator Taricco and two parliamentary assistants to whom you can ask - so the problem seemed to be solved and it was just an additional scrupulousness to go and see how the votes had gone. A serious problem arises at this point. If, in fact, with the replacement of the tablet for me, it turned out to have voted in favour - as I had previously voted in the opposite direction - while the system does not appear, I fear that we should go further on the tablets and the system provided to the stands. I repeat that there were Senator Taricco and two parliamentary assistants. The question is not so much to record an extra or less vote, which does not change anything at all, but it is a problem of the non-functioning system of which, if I had not had the scrupulousness to go and ask for the printing of the vote, we would not have realized. By appealing to his sensitivity and to that of the Offices, I want to highlight the problem; above all, we must make sure that these things do not happen, because we do not automatically always have the input to go and see or control.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u112	Senator Marino, first of all, the Presidency takes note of your vote, in order to correct the fact. In any case, a check will then be made, because what you pointed out obviously affects or can also affect the correctness of a result. Thank you for the report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u113	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-261.ana.u114	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Wednesday, October 7, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.27 p.m.
