ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 27 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u3	I communicate that on 27 February 2020 the regional electoral office at the Court of Appeal of Naples, following the supplementary elections held on 23 February 2020 in the one-named college 7 of the Campania Region, in order to assign the seat rendered vacant by the death of Senator Franco Ortolani, proclaimed Senator of the Republic the candidate Alessandro Ruotolo. On behalf of the House, I wish our new colleague every success. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u4	I communicate that on 2 March 2020 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 9 of 2 March 2020 on urgent measures to support families, workers and businesses related to the epidemiological emergency by COOVID-19" (1746).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u5	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u8	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, even in relation to the subject we are dealing with, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the College of Senators Quaestors for the measures planned for employees and for the senators themselves in the Senate structure, measures which have also been taken by the House of Deputies. I come from the bicameral commission of inquiry into the banks and it is unthinkable that in the palace of San Macuto, that is the seat where the bicameral commissions are held, the test of the temperature is not to be experienced nor is it to be provided a service of disinfection of the hands. That is why I appeal to you and, through you, to the Presidency to take similar measures in all the locations where the bicameral committees meet.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u9	Senator Calderoli, as you know, is in progress the College of Senators Quaestors, who will be immediately informed of the intervention you have just carried out.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u10	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1741, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Collina, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u11	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law, adopted at first reading by the House with some amendments, contains urgent measures aimed at countering the spread of the so-called new coronavirus COVID-19. In particular, Articles 1 to 3 of the Decree-Law refer to one or more decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, issued in accordance with the procedure provided for in Article 3, paragraph 1, the definition of measures aimed at the containment of such dissemination and the management appropriate and proportionate to the evolution of the epidemiological situation. It remains firm for cases of extreme necessity and urgency, the power of the Minister of Health, the Regions and the mayors to issue ordinances in the mores of the adoption of the aforementioned decrees, article 3, paragraph 2. On the basis of these articles, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers (DPCM) of 23 February 2020, the DPCM of 25 February 2020 and - as a substitute for the two previous decrees, as well as the previous ordinances - the DPCM of 1 March 2020. The latter has provisions valid until 8 March 2020, subject to the different specific terms provided for therein; some of the measures concern the entire national territory, while others concern only some Regions or Provinces or even more limited areas. The following Article 4 of the Decree-Law increases the resources already allocated for the costs related to this health emergency by EUR 20 million for 2020. More specifically, Article 1 relates to the adoption, as mentioned above, of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers or of the orders referred to in Article 3 (1) and (2) below of measures relating to municipalities or areas in which (for the virus in question) at least one person for whom the source of transmission is not known or in any case in which there is a case not attributable to a person from an area already affected by the infection is positive. As mentioned, on the basis of Articles 1 and 3, certain decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers have been issued. It is recalled that the DPCM 1 March 2020 provides, inter alia, with regard to the municipalities listed in Annex 1 thereto, until 8 March 2020, the prohibition of expulsion and access to the municipalities. In accordance with the principle set out in paragraph 1 of this Article 1, where the above-mentioned assumptions are used, any containment and management measures appropriate and proportionate to the evolution of the epidemiological situation shall be adopted. The following paragraph 2 indicates a number of measures that can be taken, and the list is not exhaustive. They are: the prohibition of expulsion and that of access to the Municipality or the area concerned (letters (a) and (b)). [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u12	Colleagues, I find it difficult to listen to the rapporteur. If you lower your voice, I will have the pleasure of listening to Senator Collina.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u13	Mr Collina, rapporteur. They are: the suspension of events or initiatives of any kind, of events and of any form of meeting in a public or private place (including cultural, recreational, sports and religious), even if carried out in closed places open to the public (letter c)); the suspension of the functioning of the education services of children, of the educational institutions of the national education system and of higher education and training institutions, including university, without prejudice to the training activities carried out at a distance (letter d)). The Chamber has made a reformulation of this letter d), for the purpose of some terminology clarifications. There is also the suspension of the opening to the public of the museums and other institutes and places of culture referred to in Article 101 of the Code of Cultural Heritage and Landscape, provided for in Legislative Decree No 42 of 22 January 2004, and subsequent amendments, as well as the effectiveness of the regulatory provisions on free or free access to these institutions and places (letter (e)). It is recalled that, in accordance with the above-mentioned Article 101, museums, libraries and archives, archaeological areas and parks and monumental complexes are institutes and places of culture. (i.e. the suspension of educational journeys organized by the educational institutions of the national education system, both on national territory and abroad, with the recognition of the right of withdrawal from the contract of tourist package (disciplined by the code of state legislation on the regulation and the market of tourism, referred to in legislative decree 23 May 2011, n. 79) and of the right to reimbursement of the related payments already made (letter (f)); the suspension of the competition procedures for the recruitment of personnel (letter (g)); the application of the measure of quarantine with active supervision to individuals who have had close contacts with confirmed cases of infectious disease spread (letter (h)); the obligation for individuals who have entered Italy from areas at risk of epidemiology, as identified by the World Health Organisation, to communicate this circumstance to the department of prevention of the competent health company by territory, and to communicate it to the public authorities responsible for the adoption of the measure of residence with active surveillance (i.e. non-active residence, with controls for the verification of the exercise of health conditions) the activities (letters) for commercial activities; the closure of all public activities; Article 2 of this Decree-Law provides that the competent authorities may take further measures to contain and manage the emergency, in order to prevent the spread of the outbreak from COVID-19, even outside the cases referred to in Article 1, paragraph 1. The measures in question are also adopted - as confirmed by an amendment included by the Chamber in Article 2 - by decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers or by the orders referred to in Article 3, paragraphs 1 and 2. As mentioned, on the basis of Article 2, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 25 February 2020 was issued and subsequently, as a substitute, that of 1 March. Paragraph 1 of Article 3 - as mentioned - provides that the measures referred to in Articles 1 and 2 above are adopted with one or more decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, after hearing the Minister of the Interior, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Economy and Finance and the other competent on the subject, as well as the Presidents of the competent Regions, in case they concern only one or some specific Regions, or the President of the Conference of Regions and Autonomous Provinces, in case they concern the national territory. The decrees may not entail new or higher burdens on public finance. The Chamber has made some changes only formal in this paragraph 1. Paragraph 2 of Article 3 provides that, in the mores of the adoption of the aforementioned decrees, in cases of extreme necessity and urgency, the measures under consideration may be adopted by orders of the Minister of Health, the Regions and the mayors, issued according to the norms referred to therein (with regard to the adoption of urgent measures, through orders, in the matter of public health and hygiene). According to a provision inserted by the Chamber, the measures adopted by the territorial authorities pursuant to this paragraph 2 lose their effectiveness if they are not communicated to the Minister of Health within 24 hours of their adoption. The following paragraph 3 is without prejudice to the effects of the contingent and urgent orders already adopted by the Minister of Health. Paragraph 4 of this Article 3 defines as criminal offence, of a criminal nature, the non-compliance with the containment measures established by the measures adopted pursuant to the decree-law in question, providing that, unless the fact is no longer a serious crime, Article 650 of the Criminal Code applies (-) Non-compliance with the provisions of the Authority. This provision punishes by arrest of up to three months or by fine of up to 206 euros any person who does not comply with a measure legally given by the authority for reasons of justice or public security or public policy or hygiene. According to the following paragraph 5, the prefect, informing the Minister of the Interior in advance, ensures the execution of the measures using the police forces and, if necessary, the armed forces, heard the competent territorial commands. According to an additional provision from the Chamber, the staff of the Armed Forces employed, subject to the provision of the competent prefect, to ensure the execution of the containment measures under consideration, is awarded the status of public security agent. Paragraph 6 provides that, for measures adopted pursuant to this Article 3, the time-limits for prior checking by the Court of Auditors referred to therein shall be halved. Finally, on the basis of the time limits laid down above, the acts transmitted to the Court of Auditors for prior review of legality shall in any event become enforceable after 60 days of receipt. I conclude with Article 4, which increases the resources already allocated for the health emergency costs by EUR 20 million for 2020 in the resolution of the Council of Ministers of 31 January 2020. Finally, I would ask that we be able to give an addition to the written text of my speech, which contains additional elements, so that it can be published in the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u14	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u15	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, on behalf of the Brothers of Italy and - if I may say so - on behalf of the whole Assembly, I do not think that this important debate can be opened without sincere, heartfelt, affectionate and grateful thanks to health workers, doctors, paramedics, researchers, laboratory technicians. [[Applause]] : silent heroes who face every day, often even by means not perfectly adequate, this emergency, in the interest of the health of all of us. Along with them, sincere, affectionate and grateful thanks go to the law enforcement, civil protection and all those who are working to slow down the spread of the virus. [[Applause]] The real problem we have, ladies and gentlemen, is time. We understood that it is now impossible to stop the spread of the virus, but it is absolutely necessary to slow it down, as he had already asked two months ago Brothers of Italy. We of Brothers of Italy had asked not so much to block flights from China, knowing that it was useless, since it was enough a stopover to get to Italy anyway, as to quarantine all those who arrived from the infected area, which was then located only in a well-delimited territory of that country. We asked why, in the face of the draconian measures of China, the militarization of an entire territory, the death penalty for those who violated the government's provisions, it was clear that it was not a little more than an influence - as was said then - but an extremely serious fact, which had to be dealt with from the beginning necessarily decisively. You laughed at us, accused us of being racist in demanding that anyone from China, Italian, Chinese or any other nationality be quarantined and today China - think a little - does this to us. Something doesn't have to work if we're at this point. So, the problem is time, because the virus's spread line is alarming. Yesterday's data tell us that there are 2,502 positives, of which 79 died, 1,034 hospitalized, 229 in intensive care, that is 10 percent of all those who have come into contact with the virus, including those who have small and mild symptoms, comparable to a modest and ordinary flu. The Lombardy Region, the most advanced in Italy and Europe in the field of health, today has 80% of the intensive care already occupied. We know that in Italy we have a little more than 5,000 seats in intensive care and I take the example of Lazio, which has a little more than 500 seats in intensive care. If the aforementioned growth measure were to continue as in the last days, with a doubling every three days, it means that, in about eight days, we will have 10,000 infected, 1,000 people in intensive care and our health system at the limit of bearability, because in intensive care obviously there are ordinary patients who already occupy a large part of it. That is why it is absolutely necessary to slow down the spread of the virus and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, important measures must be taken. We need to involve the Army, the volunteers, the Civil Protection. It takes an extraordinary plan to increase the beds and to create dedicated sanitary facilities in each region. You have to buy ventilation and assisted breathing equipment, because this will allow you to put part of the patients not directly in the intensive care, but in dedicated departments, perhaps of intensive semi-therapy. A plan of daily disinfestation of crowded places is required. I think of the means of transport: it is useless to fix the distance of one person from the other to a meter or a meter and a half, if then tens of thousands of commuters every day have to take trains and means of transport where the distance between one and the other is a few centimeters. We need to clean up the means of transport every day; we need an extraordinary plan for commuters, we need to remove many of the traffic restrictions and allow anyone who wants to be able to use their cars, at least in the next two weeks, even in areas with limited traffic, in order to get to work without the risk of being infected or infected. I should like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by thinking of a subject that no one is dedicated to today. In recent months illegal immigration to Italy has increased by 1,000 percent, landings have increased by 1,000 percent. NGOs continue to act as taxis for boatmen and human traffickers. No one cares about this and no NGO representative is concerned about providing assistance and helping, not in red areas, but at least in yellow areas, to help those who are at the forefront in the fight against the emergency. They continue to worry about the invasion of people who are not refugees in Italy and are potential dangerous vehicles of contagion. We want to reason on all this. Then we will discuss, when the time comes, errors of underestimation first and alarmism then in government communication. But today it is time to act and Brothers of Italy - as they have always done - will cooperate with all their strength and their proposals to deal with this emergency. Italy gives its best in the most difficult moments. I am convinced that everyone together will be able to face and overcome this test as well. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u16	Senator Cirinna is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are about to convert the first of the government's decree-laws to deal with the emergency of the coronavirus. We are facing this and we are about to convert it into an extremely positive climate: a climate of unity, a climate of cooperation, a climate of linkage between political forces. I think this is a very valuable asset for our country right now. I also want to share with you the pride of a country that reacts, does not bend and, through its institutions, gives answers. I want to try to describe all the messages, but above all to share with you what comes from the messages and emails: the hope of getting out again this time with a stronger and more cohesive country. Coronavirus, as an epidemic and a health emergency, struck our country at a very fragile moment in its political history, but above all in its social history. We live at a time when the bonds of solidarity are already strongly put into crisis. It is a time when the loneliness and isolation of our citizens is rampant. I often talk about loneliness and describe the feeling of loneliness that comes from our territories. I often describe loneliness as the periphery of the soul, that inner place, that part of the self that poses questions to which very often no answers are given, starting with us, politics, colleagues. Those are the outskirts of the soul that at this moment increase the feeling of loneliness of our citizens, especially of those in some areas. In this scenario the spectre of contagion, which brings with it fear and concern, awakens ancient monsters. Those of us who know Italian literature remember, also perhaps because recalled by some texts and journalistic pieces, the Manzoni plague and the Spanish epidemic. How many of our grandparents told us about that phase? Each of those moments has marked our history and our culture in depth and has carried with it too many times in the following times a trail of mistrust and rupture of solidarity and social cohesion. We must ensure that this does not happen again. Manzoni's pages on this are truly exemplary and should serve as a warning. Colleagues, we are really going through an extremely delicate time as a country. We must say this in this general debate in which we should all listen with respect to each other, without alarmism and without exaggeration, but with responsibility and awareness that a great country like Italy at this moment raises its head, unites and can succeed. I am convinced that we have many tools to make this crisis a moment of growth, to draw valuable lessons and, above all, a new impetus for the stitching of the whole territory. As you have often heard in the speeches of this Assembly, the country needs to be sewn up, connected and reunited. Too many times in recent days we have heard the sirens of selfishness, isolation, fear of the other, even witness painful episodes of discrimination and violence. I want to say this because solidarity must always be given to everyone. Unfortunately, the web is often the worst place for hatred. Our party campaigned at this time just to say no to hate words. I want to give my solidarity to that mother of Fiumicino struck by an indiscriminate hatred with horrible words just because she got infected by visiting a relative outside the country. In this, large administrations react positively. There are many evils typical of this time and the fear of contagion has certainly accentuated all this. We must ensure that the call for social exclusion does not leave permanent marks. We have seen the opportunities for social contact, the closing of cinemas and theatres, the suspension of political initiatives. They are all necessary and necessary decisions to contain the virus, but whose effects in the long term we should be able to contain. Of course, there are effects on the hold of the economic fabric. There are effects on the resilience of the financial fabric. Let's make it the right difference between economy and finance. There will be effects on our country's production and growth. We must, however, ensure that - and we are doing so with the decrees-laws - the fundamental right to health is safeguarded as the most valuable asset. We must not, however, confine ourselves to this. We must keep our eyes open and we must be concerned about the preservation of the social and human fabric of our Italy. You see, colleagues, the medical emergency we're experiencing can teach us a lot, and don't think it's an empty sentence of content. It can teach us that the other, the other that we pointed out, the other that we pushed away, the other that we held, well, today that other is us. For many countries in the world, the other one is us, we are Italians. It can teach us that it really takes only a moment to find itself, suddenly, on the other side of the barbed wire, on the other side of the wall, on the other side of an insurmountable stretch of sea, full of dangers; to be perceived, suddenly, as a source of danger for those around us; perhaps to be stuck in an airport, in foreign land, alone and looked at with suspicion. This is an experience that is happening to many Italians. There is much more we can learn. We can learn that at times like these, a country unites. We can learn, colleagues, the responsibility that arises from being members of the same community; the responsibility of one another; the responsibility of the institutions, which are called upon to act to deal with the emergency and, of all of us, that we are part of these institutions. Attention: we can learn not to exploit the emergency, not to jackal, not to do exhibitionism, but also not to talk about games of the Palace, invoking piles completely useless to our country. I will conclude, Mr President, by saying that we can learn how important it is to support public scientific research, with public money, even if that money comes from taxes. We can learn that public research must not be abandoned to precariousness and chronic lack of funds and inadequate structures. As I believe all of us will say in subsequent interventions, it is that institution of public health that the world admires and is saving our country. Mr President, I would also ask you to be able to attach my written speech to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u18	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u19	Senator Lunesu is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u20	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a situation of serious crisis. On the threshold of 2020, an event, which at first seemed to affect only the Asian countries, had a disruptive effect in our society, affecting the health aspect, the economic aspect, the social aspect, but above all making our nation responsible for a phenomenon of which we were only victims. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To quote one of our illustrious and never forgotten former colleagues: to think wrong is a sin, but sometimes you get it right. It seems that an international design tends to hit us and discredit us. I am witnessing frankly intolerable positions on a daily basis. The American press, referring to SARS-COV-2, calls it "Italy's coronavirus. " The French media with deplorable irony attack our Made in Italy. Asia and the Middle East ghettoize our country and block air traffic, putting in quarantine any passenger from Italy, even asymptomatic, and that is with lack of symptoms. Let me say that, with regard to symptoms, my training leads me to want to briefly examine also the technical aspect of this epidemic. On 9 January 2020, the World Health Organisation declared the isolation by the Chinese authorities of a new strain of coronavirus never previously identified in humans: 2019-Ncov, better defined two weeks ago SARS-Cov-2. The pathogen has been called this because of its close relationship with SARS-Cov virus, if you remember responsible for the major outbreak of respiratory disease in humans from 2002 to 2003. The virus, as we all know, has been associated with an outbreak of pneumonia reported since December 31, 2019 in the city of Wuhan in Central China. SARS-Cov-2 has been associated with other influenza viruses, but it is different from normal influenza, because there is no vaccine yet and therefore the population is not immune. Unlike seasonal flu, which varies slightly from year to year, SARS-Cov-2 is completely new: it is a genus of ribonucleic acid (RNA) virus and its first name comes from a Latin term meaning In fact, the characteristic aspect of virions representing the infectious form of the virus visible under the electron microscope is similar to a solar crown: imagine a central body with a halo around it. These viruses, which have always been responsible for causing pathologies in mammals and bats, in man cause infections of the respiratory type, often of small size but which sometimes lead to bronchitis and lungitis; in serious cases there is also death, as we have seen. In January 2020, seven strains of coronavirus capable of infecting humans are known. There are no vaccines or antiviral drugs considered valid by the scientific community. In man, transmission can take place through respiratory secretions (as we all know, through cough and sneezing), but also in this case there is a lack of complete epidemiological and serological information. The Director-General of the World Health Organisation declared the international health emergency on 30 January 2020. Currently 39 recognized and 10 temporary coronavirus species are known, many of which contain hundreds of different viruses. But how has the State, and therefore the Government, acted in the face of this emerging phenomenon? He got scared, alarmed, and especially alarmed all of us. Italy has moved too slowly. Serious preventive measures would have been necessary to cover the whole territory, because today there is SARS-Cov-2, next year there might be a virus still different and always unknown. It is not the mortality rate as much as the communicability that makes a disease potentially perfect for turning from epidemic to pandemic: for example, cancer has a high mortality rate, but it is not a pandemic. I would remind you that every year only 50% of citizens are vaccinated to avoid influenza; quality diagnostic information is needed, assembly is avoided, and a greater sense of responsibility is needed. The virus contracts or does not contract, is affected or is not affected; there are no healthy carriers; it is not a genetically transmitted disease. When Deputy Minister Sileri - of which I appreciate the work and professional competence and which I have occasion to meet often in 12a Commission - defends the decree-law by calling it flexible makes me worried. You cannot navigate on sight at this time: it means that you are not able to outline a program that includes such situations that are quite predictable every year. It will be necessary to define an appropriate national protocol, capable of limiting and managing an emergency because today, I repeat, it has arrived from China but next time it could come from another country, and do not run the risk of finding us unprepared and facing the situation in a pre-pochistic way as, in my opinion, it is happening in this case. As a citizen I realize that what worries the population most is not so much the health aspect, which certainly affects a higher age group, but it is the economic aspect: young people who are afraid of their future because they realize that this event risks blowing up the already fragile economic system. Exceptional times are faced with exceptional measures. It cannot be thought that few resources are sufficient to restore emerging situations such as this. Other countries, with similar characteristics, have allocated more substantial resources. Let me give you the example of Korea. Finally, we will be able to see whether the sense of solidarity prevails in Europe or the selfish instinct that has hitherto characterized economic policy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to give some examples that, if this crisis continues, will really lead us to worry seriously: Confcommercio estimates a loss of five to seven billion euros in the event that the crisis lasts until May. The Governor of the Bank of Italy, Ignazio Visco, estimated the reduction in GDP of 0.2% over a year. The tourism sector, which is worth EUR 146 billion in Italy, i.e. 12% of our GDP, is suffering a huge loss. The major tourist destinations - Rome, Venice and Naples - receive cancellations from 30 to 70 percent for the next period. International trade, which represents EUR 438 billion, could lose EUR 140 billion. However, I am convinced that health has no political color and that Italy still has the resources and the capacity to get out of this serious crisis. We need, of course, everyone's cooperation. We're definitely not gonna back down. If the Government proposes solutions compatible with our positions our membership will certainly be total. On behalf of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione I thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u21	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I spend many hours, when I am not in the Chamber, in the Maccari room where there is a particularly interesting frieze that crosses the whole room and says: "Look diligently at the things of the past times because they make light for the future and what it is and will be, it has been at another time." On January 8 of this year, when there was still no sense that the epidemic would be as devastating as it is manifesting at this moment, on...The Turin Press appeared an article by a colleague, Eugenia Tognotti, a medical historian, who, on the lines of events already verified since 1500 - I would like to emphasize this - wrote that all the viral epidemics come from the East, concretely from China, because it is there that the coexistence between men and live animals is narrower, so it is easier for viruses that have their habitat on animals to make the leap of species. So on January 8 there had already been an alarm that, just as it had happened in recent years (the last one was the 2009 epidemic and then the SARS) all these epidemics came from the East, so it had to be expected that it would come and, since every viral epidemic is partly similar and partly different from the previous one, we would have to equip ourselves. I am not just thinking about how much we should have done to deal with this epidemic more quickly. I am thinking about what we will have to do to deal with the next epidemics. In fact, as long as the human-animal coexistence is so tight the leap of species is simply to wait and sooner or later it will happen. This also says a lot about the fact that, when we are in front of - history in this is always a teacher - an epidemic like this, for which we do not have specific drugs, the first drug that we have to put into play is exactly the separation, the distance, the quarantine. Perhaps it can be interesting to remember that the quarantine was invented by the Italians, when they were not yet a single state but a set of marine Republics and the ships that arrived in port were blocked, simply because the sailors were in quarantine and avoided infecting the population, for example with swine fever or, from time to time, with any epidemic coming from afar. There is a culture, a history that goes through time and that means that Italy, from this point of view, has always been a teacher of prevention and precaution. Of course, when a virus is transmitted with breath it is very difficult to block it: just breathe. It is no coincidence that there was the small yellow in the decree-law with respect to distances: it seemed that a metre between us could be sufficient (I would point out that we ourselves in this House do not keep one metre apart from each other), then we tried to extend it to two meters and, in the impossibility of implementing it, we were attested to one meter and eighty centimetres. Beyond everything, the real point is to be sure that the virus is transmitted with breath. So, no matter how ingenious, detailed, rigorous the measures may be, the risk is immanent; it may be a zero-trend risk, but we will never be able to erase it. The government has put on track many measures, especially measures that echo in different ways the culture of quarantine, including home, so you stay at home. The invitation, then, to the over 60s to stay at home you will understand that it could empty the country in a few minutes, taking into account that we are a country with an overturned demographic pyramid. But what can we learn from this umpteenth epidemic, which, I insist, will not be the last and perhaps not even the most serious if we fail to adequately equip ourselves? The first lesson is that the study on vaccines must be strengthened, strengthened and shared; they are not battles that can win a single laboratory, a single country: they are battles that either win together, or they are not won at all. The second thing that may be interesting to focus on compared to this epidemic is the other virus, which in many posts has been called the information virus, which certainly pays the price of the initial silence on the Chinese epidemic but which by us can become a price, as it were, from hypercompensation: an excess of information that overwhelms us every day, on all the front pages of newspapers and news. Last night, on the news, Nino Cartabellotta, the founder of GIMBE in Italy, the foundation that deals with medicine based on evidence, said that monitoring day by day, now for now is not much use; it serves to identify a trend. For us, the communication could be suggested to adopt a less strictly quantitative approach and with a greater capacity to explain to people how the precaution and early diagnosis are activated. The measures that are at stake are the limited measures that we now have, but they could grow and improve over time. I believe that we - my colleagues will agree - can only be with the Government in all the measures it has taken. We would like these measures to be supported by far greater resources, because otherwise they seem to be words in the wind, but we know that on this decree-law our vote, as happened yesterday in the Commission, is a vote in part in faith - as someone has called it, a trustworthy vote - because we hope that the next decree-law will draw the facts, resources and concreteness with words. For the rest, we just have to learn from history and next time we find a little more prepared. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Marinello]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Rampi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that these are complicated hours in which to be inspired and two principles: not to dramatize and not to underestimate. It is a behavior that each of us must have as a citizen and that we must have as institutions in particular, because all our behaviors, individual behaviors, those we hold in this House, those we hold through the means of communication, have an impact on the behaviour of our citizens and on the climate that is created. Who knows that this emergency - let's call it this - does not teach us to review some of our behaviors a bit self-centered and a little 'egotic and try to control a little'more, with empathy - that must never be lost - but with seriousness, the behaviors of a ruling class. In this respect, I would like to highlight two specific aspects of the many that could be said and the many that have been mentioned in this debate. The first is that there are in the Region from which I come, Lombardy, of the Provinces particularly affected, today are definitely Lodi, Cremona, Pavia, Bergamo, but tomorrow they can be others. In all those Provinces there are first of all people who work in health facilities but also people who work in companies and other realities, there are mayors, local administrators, mothers and dads who are organizing themselves to manage children who do not go to school, there are teachers: there is a whole country that strives to behave in the correct way without underestimating and without dramatizing. We, as a political class, must live up to that country. The second subject, which is the subject of an agenda that I wanted to table, has a specific connection with what we will be voting on in a few hours' time. The one at the Senate represents the last passage of a decree-law that authorizes the Government to adopt some necessary and fundamental measures, many of which have already been in force for almost two weeks, for example in my region, but also in other parts of the country. One of these measures concerns in particular the world of culture, the workers of the show, the places of aggregation. To these workers and to these workers we have had to close our jobs overnight. Those workers and those workers are first of all workers and workers like everyone else; I have to say this because sometimes it seems that they are not, it seems that they are people who have fun doing their work and that therefore if we close their workplace overnight nothing happens and instead drama happens. However, they are also workers and workers who perform a function that is fundamental for the Republic and in particular at times like these, because those cultural tools are those that we need to remain community, to be even more so, to face fears, weaknesses and fragility. To those workers and workers today, at the same time as the dramatic choice that we are making and that we also allow for the coming months, which may affect other parts of the country, to necessarily close their work space, we must say that the Republic will not abandon them. There is a beautiful film that tells the story of when, during the Second World War, a group of volunteer soldiers decided, in full drama, of the fight against barbarism, to defend monuments and works of art, because it had the intuition that there would be a day, the next day, a day when civilization could continue because there were and why those monuments and works of art had been saved. Well, today, in the midst of a battle - because that is what we must lead and that we will lead with seriousness and rigour in the coming weeks - we must defend our citizens, give each of them the tools to defend themselves, but at the same time save and safeguard that cultural universe, that delicate ecosystem and at the risk that we need to restart and rebuild, to produce, once defeated the negative contagion of these hours, that positive contagion that culture and art distribute to us. For this reason, I would also like to draw attention to the combination of these two measures in this House at the same time, because they are attitudes that go together. Today we ask for a sacrifice, and while we ask for it, we are supportive and close to those who - worker, entrepreneur, freelancer - decided to dedicate their lives to building communities, because the more they are community, the more they come out of dramas like this. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u25	She's enlisted to speak Senator Stable. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u26	Mr President, the current epidemic has highlighted to all of us the situation (deficit, even organizational) of our National Health Service. This is a health service that has been under stress for years of cuts: we have lost EUR 37 billion in funding over a decade; we have lost significant amounts of staff. Now, late, we face the problem of the shortage of doctors. We have cut over the years an important number of beds, so much so that at this moment we are with little more than three places every thousand inhabitants; making a comparison with other European countries, with a public health similar to ours, France has six per thousand inhabitants, Germany eight. We have probably done so imprudently - at least now it proves to be so - and hasty, inspired by a model that wants to bring assistance to the territory, and we started by cutting down hospitals. Well, now we see how much hospitals are still necessary, indispensable, to our Health Service. Hospitals are already in crisis without the coronavirus coming in; all winters with flu epidemics are in crisis. Every winter - and sometimes not in winter - there are waits for hours, sometimes even days, in the first aid departments for the bed. All winters, departments, especially medical departments, travel with an employment rate of more than 100 percent. This means that the exhibit is not only constantly full, but also follows patients in excess, placed in the ward or scattered throughout the hospital. It is shown that with these employment rates the risk for patients increases, as well as increases the risk of infections, the fearsome hospital infections. With the cut in funding, the system necessarily tends to save at all costs. I personally have experience with this system: I have been a hospital doctor for more than thirty years and, especially towards the end of the year, when we are concerned about a budget that could end up in red, do you know what the Matrons have? He's asked not to escort. Having no stocks, we saw what happened in the case of a request still contained which was initially the one following the coronary artery epidemic. The departments did not have the immediate availability of garrisons that, all in all, should also be used for the flu epidemic, such as masks, losing shirts, gloves, protective devices that are normally used. In our hospitals, following the coronavirus epidemic, such garrisons arrived, because ordered ad hoc, after several days, so with all the risk that there was spread of the contagion. It is clear that it is not enough for this system, already heavily stressed by the cuts, to go into crisis; it is enough for it not to meet the needs and not only those related to the coronary virus epidemic but to the general needs of all citizens, because a system that collapses is no longer able to respond to all the needs it is responsible for. Effective measures are therefore certainly necessary, if not to contain the contagion, because this could be illusory, at least to delay it, since the peak may not be dealt with by our system. Another important, organisational rather than economic, resource-dependent deficiency was the one highlighted in relation to the single emergency number 112. The model adopted by Italy provides that all emergency calls, therefore health calls, but also those addressed to firemen and the Forces of Order, pass through the funnel of the unique number 112. The amount of calls that has been produced, also to receive information - even if then some Regions have introduced the toll-free number to this end - has gone to clog the power stations of number 112, with people who have waited up to thirty minutes, and perhaps even beyond, to have the first contact with the operator. The health emergency has therefore also caused a risk to those in need of fire department or law enforcement. In my region, Friuli-Venezia Giulia the problem still persists and the rescue calls remain in line for several minutes, before the first contact with the operator. I believe that we should learn and reflect from all of this; at this time it is certainly a priority to tackle together, collectively, as has already been said, the emergency, but - equally all together - once the emergency has ceased, I think we should think about the conditions of the National Health Service and public health, so as to give a change to these policies based on cuts. This emergency has shown us how important the National Health Service is. Hoping that the phenomenon will eventually prove to be as contained as possible, I believe that in any case this experience will serve to make us find ourselves ready again. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u27	Senator Castiello is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Government, at the basis of Decree-Law No 6 of 23 February 2020, which is the subject of conversion into law, is in favour of a unified management of the health emergency, as the fragmentation of decision-making, the uncoordinated interventions that we have unfortunately had in recent days, not always based on scientific evidence, risk being inappropriate and inappropriate, causing prejudice to the country's reputation and economy. The measure in our examination aims to heal these discrasies by applying Article 117, third paragraph of the Constitution, which divides in the matter of health protection the competence between the State and the Regions, being matter of concurrent competence; however, it is reserved to the State the care in a uniform way of the right to health, which Article 32 of the Constitution - let us not forget - defines as the fundamental right of the person and primary interest of the community. Of all the subjective rights and freedoms protected by the Constitution, the only one marked with the status of "fundamental" is the right to health, which requires uniform and uniform discipline, removed from the differentiated assessments of the discretion of the regional legislators that can lead to the inconveniences to which the decree-law intends to remedy. The legislation introduced by the Government has had international absenteeism; the EU Health Commissioner Stella Kyriakides has defined it as a set of quick and decisive measures. Hans Kluge, director of the World Health Organization in Europe, on 26 February, in relation to the measures that the Government has taken in recent days has given full confidence to Italy, which had to make difficult decisions, sacrificing economic prosperity on the altar of the protection of the right to health. What is most interesting to note in this decree-law, however, is that it does precisely the principle of proportionality, which is inspired by providing with flexible clauses the necessary adaptability of government action, through secondary legislation of implementation, to the evolution of the epidemiological framework. That is why it is well done: it responds to the need for flexibility and adequacy while respecting the principle of proportionality, which is rooted in Article 3 of the Constitution. In terms of flexibility, it is also the rule that the Court of Auditors' audits do not block government action, as they are carried out in the form not of suspensive conditions, but, if anything, decisive. The measures are therefore provisionally declared to be effective and enforceable, even though they are subject to review by the Court of Auditors. It is precisely these flexibility and proportionality clauses inherent in the regulatory fabric that make this measure certainly appropriate to the economic situation. So, in view of the capacity and quality of this legislative instrument to deal with the emerging situation, I consider it inappropriate, not to say unbecoming, the persistent and obsessive proposal of some opposition segments to trade with the promise of support to this Government as an institutional executive of national emergency the anticipation of a certain deadline for the early elections. It is an inadmissible proposal, which has no constitutional basis, and an unacceptable barter. Article 60 of the Constitution establishes a precise time frame for the legislature, to be understood as a natural period of term in office of the Chambers. That is why, in conclusion, we express our firm solidarity with the President-in-Office of the Council's reply to this unacceptable and inadmissible proposal. This is already a Government of national unity, which has been endorsed by Kluge, of the World Health Organization, and, I repeat, by the Commissioner for the Kyriakides solution, who has positively reviewed this Government's commitment to taking fast and decisive solutions, remedies, measures and interventions. The 5 Star Movement therefore expresses its convinced absenteeism to the choices summarized in this decree-law, object of conversion into law, and manifests full solidarity with the Government in office, to which its full support goes in this difficult conjuncture. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u29	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u30	Mr President, first of all, the Brothers of Italy wish to express their condolences to all the victims of these days and hours. We did not particularly like the communication on the victims, according to which it seemed that, if an elder dies, his life counts less than that of a young man. I find this to be a really bad message that we gave our children, as if lives were not all human. It's been heard several times these days: A person who was eighty or eighty-five years old and had a compromised clinical picture died, as if - I repeat - lives had different weights. We would also like to thank all the citizens - those in the red zone and all those who see their limited freedom - and to thank, as my fellow Senator Balboni has already done, all the men, women, doctors, nurses, our Army and our Forces of Order, who are working night and day and in some cases even in situations that are certainly not easy. Brothers of Italy said immediately that he would give his willingness and that we were there, also because I remember that we are patriots and, therefore, first of all, Italy comes; before party interests, before conveniences, before thinking about consent, for us comes our nation and therefore, Mr President, we are and will be there. However, since we are in Parliament, in the place of discussions, where we can say what we think, let us say that we have some doubts that, if there had been a centre-right government, the left would immediately have declared itself a collaborator: I do not know. I must say, however, that, in all this, something has been done that should not have been done, because at first, on the part of the Government, we saw an absolute underestimation of what was happening. You kept telling us that there was no problem and when we, the Brothers of Italy, had asked that all the people who came from China - children or adults: everyone! - the answer, the most trivial and the wrongest, was that we were racists and that it was an ideological measure. No, gentlemen, we wanted to protect the health of all citizens, not according to race or ethnicity: we were concerned about safeguarding the health of all citizens. This, in our opinion, was a big mistake. I must say that, however, today, when many nations are closing their doors in the face of Italians, I have not heard from you, colleagues, even a word about racism, I have not heard anything from you, as if it were absolutely normal. I think these are the things that are really hurting our nation. Yesterday no one missed the commercial on the "Corona pizza," that shame that aired on the French channel "Canal plus" and that, I must say, thanks to the denunciation of Brothers of Italy, after a few hours had fortunately been removed. The damage, however, has been, is and will be. I have to say that communication is what the government has done most wrong. When we saw the President of the Italian Council making communications from the Civil Protection office, he gave a message that was extremely alarming, because we Italians are used to seeing the President of the Council speak from the Civil Protection office when there are very serious things, such as earthquakes. So, seeing the President of the Italian Council speaking from the Civil Protection office, imagine what the Italians could think. We can say it was a bad message. We can certainly say that there have been schizophrenic messages, but I believe that what has had the worst effects ever was when the President-in-Office of the Council said that the problem was created for a breach in our health system. At that moment the President-in-Office admitted that Italy had made a mistake and that there had been a breach in our health system. And there you will have realized that in a moment, from that nation that was doing well and that it was doing massive controls to ward off the problem of contagion, thanks to this statement of the President of the Italian Council, we have become the anointings of the world. That was the problem. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti. Comments of Senators Angrisani and Rampi]] I don't know if you've noticed what international newspapers and CNN service have written, which said that the President of the Council admits that there was a mistake. I do not know whether the President-in-Office of the Council realized at that time what he did and what the economic damage was. [[Comments of Senators Lanzi and Mirabelli]] I'm talking about damage to our Made in Italy and tourism. Then I say that it is no longer the time to make mistakes; it is the time to do things and you still have to make us understand if this coronary virus is serious - and then it is right that there are drastic measures - or if this coronary artery is little more than an influence. We therefore ask the government to give us information and to put aside everything that is not needed to solve a problem that is certainly serious from the health point of view, but is also very serious from the economic point of view. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u31	Senator Ferrazzi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe, we believe, that this is not the time for controversy, but it is the time for national unity, because, in the face of events such as these and health crises which are then turning into objective economic crises, we must be united together. Using this Assembly to make an easy polemic, a bit demagogic, exploiting the real data, which is a datum of fear that our country is going through, we do not think it is up to the task that this Senate must give today. The task that this Senate must face today is that of a firm, responsible, not hysterical, but competent and effective response to a situation that is objectively an emergency situation. Obviously we are within a natural phenomenon that has happened very often in the course of history and that will happen again. Institutions, within their strength, responsibility and credibility, are called upon to respond to situations such as these. And that is exactly what is being done with the transformation into law of the decree-law that we are talking about right now. Now, Mr President, there are many plans for action which this Government has proposed and which Parliament is about to vote on. It is quite clear that, in the face of a situation of emergency health, the first intervention must be of a health and emergency nature, in order to block the increase of the contagion in our nation. Well, Mr President, that is exactly what this decree-law does, as the rapporteur has already said in an absolutely authoritative and pertinent manner. We did not miss a day; we took immediate action already in February, with measures concerning the prohibition of removal from areas of interest and access to them, the suspension of demonstrations, the suspension of the operation of schools and universities, the suspension of the opening of public museums, the closure of commercial establishments, the specific quarantine measures and all interventions for air and land transport and for local public transport (we could also continue). This government intervened immediately, once one realized that there was an emergency situation to be addressed. From a health point of view, Parliament responded promptly, voting last week on the conversion of the decree-law into law to the House; today the same will happen in the Senate. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear that this is not enough because the consequences of a crisis of this kind also have strong economic repercussions. Well, in this direction too, we are not firm: Parliament and the Government are not firm; we need to intervene on two levels from an economic point of view, to stem the crisis that has already begun and, at the same time, to intervene on the relaunch of investment. So, it's about spending and investing at the same time. A debate is opened with the measures that are coming - it is a matter of days - about 9 billion that would be put into the national system. Today we are talking about almost EUR 4 billion. A discussion is under way - the government has brought it to the level of the European Union - for a European and global emergency plan, within which there is also a review of the flexibility needed to deal with the emergency, on the deficit-to-GDP ratio with at least 0.2% more. Then there are hypotheses that are already transforming into the second and third decrees of an economic nature that are of great impact from the point of view of the support of the economy. There are measures to suspend, prolong and moratoria in the affected areas with regard to the economic sectors and, in particular, tourism, culture, catering and transport, but also measures to support employment. Then there are credit facilities for businesses and households, simplifications of procedures, blocking payments and so on. These are all issues which are being discussed extensively and which have not been studied in the secret of the offices of the Ministries or of the President of the Council of Ministers. The President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers has in fact considered extending responsibility to all parliamentary forces at this time, regardless of whether it is a majority or a minority. Mr President, I come to the last point which is absolutely fundamental. The framework within which these measures must be taken (the emergency of health care, the recovery of the economy and the containment of the economic crisis) cannot stand unless there is a great deal of national unity in the face of the crisis. Our country needs trust, cohesion, ability to team up, courage, it needs to understand that at times like these political forces must imagine and implement the fact that there is the common good, which goes beyond detail and short-term consensus. All together we must be aware of the great value of our nation. We must leave aside those who want to divide, speculate, frighten and build together a project and a plan to revive to make Italy stronger even through this crisis that we are facing and that we must quickly leave behind. Mr President, I come from a city and a region that is deeply affected. We are fully aware of the picture of discomfort and fear. Travelling through Venice, as in Rome, you can see the absence of tourism, the economic crisis, the locals, commerce, entrepreneurs, companies, the self-employed and the free professionals, but to fear you respond responsibly with targeted actions, national unity and courage. President, today's vote can go in this direction. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u33	Senator Pepe is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, last night, as happens to each of us in this House, I turned to Rome and was sad and frightened. If Rome is sad and frightened, so is Italy. We cannot allow this in any way with our feelings, nor with our political actions. In the meantime, I would like to make a premise here, because it seems to me that in part of the left hemicycle it is not very clear that, if this decree-law is about to become law in very fast times, it is because the oppositions have been responsible and have allowed its conversion immediately. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's face it. Let us speak the truth, all the truths, especially in difficult times. How can we not hide, for example, that this Government, the Government Count II, was a slow Government, a stuttering Government, an unconscious Government. I also tell you why. It was slow because, when, at the end of January, someone had ringed the bell, saying to President Count: wake up, do not underestimate this phenomenon, controls the borders adopt the appropriate measures, the Government Count II slept. He only woke up on February 21st. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It was stuttering, because it created chaos. There has been a total disinformation, overall, both as regards operations on the territories and as regards prevention. I'm mayor. Thank God, in this case I say: a mayor of the South. I have touched with my hand this chaos, this confusion, which reigned in the Count II Government. You didn't know what to do and how to behave. Some mayors closed schools, others made ordinances, imposing sanctions on those who did not observe the commitment to communicate the origin from red areas or, in any case, from areas of the North. The confusion, because the government didn't know what to say and didn't know where to go. A stuttering government; and then it was an unconscious government, because, dear colleagues, dear lords of the government, in itself, in its role, a head of the government must tend to unite the country, to compact it. This goal becomes a duty, when there are moments of suffering. But Prime Minister Conte did the exact opposite. He had to find, on every occasion, a scapegoat for his inability. He attacked some mayors earlier. Then he attacked the doctors and the medical staff, to whom instead all our solidarity goes. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Finally, he also attacked some governors, starting with Zaia, passing through Fontana, the best governors of our nation! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It's completely incomprehensible! A respected President of the Council does not create social conflicts or institutional conflicts. Dialogue, collaboration, proposal, listen. I, as a man from the South, dear colleagues, ask myself and ask you a question. If those outbreaks, instead of in Veneto and Lombardy, were born elsewhere, what would have happened in Italy? What would have happened in Italy? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Feet on the floor, then. These are the benches of the League, a force that has demonstrated, even in these moments, to be reliable, responsible, of wanting the good of Italy and the Italians. He proposed a lot of measures, bringing them to the attention of the government. Serious, concrete, effective measures that could help families, businesses and tourism. It is not enough, however, to summon oppositions to respect a mere formal protocol. The oppositions are convened in time, trying to address the central core of the issue and trying to propose solutions that are important for Italy in a unified way. We're here. We have proposed and will continue to propose. Matteo Salvini is doing it, minute after minute, because it's right that it is. However, I believe that, in view of the responsibility that we are manifesting today, allowing the conversion of the decree-law into law immediately, we must also be responsible by saying some no. And two no, dear friends, we have to say it. Because if, on the one hand, one tries to buffer the health phenomenon with this measure, on the other, we must understand that there is another already concrete emergency that is looming over Italy, that is, the economic one. And if we want to deal with it, we have to say two no: no to charity from Europe and no to fearful measures from this Government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Outside this Palace, fellow senators, there is Italy that does not give up, the real Italy, the Italy that works, that studies, that wants to go ahead; the Italy of heart, courage and pride. Let's get to the pace of that Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Step up to that Italy, lords of the government. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I would like to send a final message to some ladies of the Ultralp and beyond. We are Italy, when you hear this name, bring us respect. We are Italy. When you see our colors and symbols, among which we also put pizza, bow down! We are Italy, a country that will win this challenge as well. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u35	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u36	Mr President, in the meantime I am a little embarrassed because not only do I not respect the distance of 1.80 meters (now I am confused between a meter, a meter and 80 cm, 2 meters, 2 meters and 40 cm), but I have alongside my colleague Gallone who comes from Bergamo and this morning I read that it is possible that next week the Bergamos will also be put in the sedan, so I enjoy it as long as I can, in essence. Forgive the goliardia of the incipit of the intervention; I would like to be able to continue, but the situation is particularly delicate and worrying. Today we are discussing a decree-law and I believe that perhaps in these two years it is the only one for which we have respected the constitutional dictation. That is necessity and urgency are the only serious reasons that led to the proposal by the Government and the signature by the Head of State of this decree-law. So after two years a decree-law. Good. What is the problem from our point of view? I'll make a brief digression. Everyone has the concern to say that there are errors; we clear the field (I take responsibility for it): the decree-law, in particular contingent and urgent, has a life of sixty days within which the Chambers have to provide for its conversion into law, or, not approving it, to its decadence, because by carrying out the function of emergency and urgency, it must be immediately executive and may even be that the Chambers do not transform it into law of the State. In my opinion this was the function of the decree-law under consideration, so we had to let it expire, we absolutely did not have to convert it. I have asked my President for permission and I will not be voting on this decree-law. Personally, I would like to vote against it. I will not vote against it out of a sense of responsibility. But I'd like to vote against. She mentioned something similar and I try to express it in my own words; we can also remember the reasons that led to the drafting and approval of this decree-law, drawing them from the words of Senator Casini, when last week we intervened, one per Group, regarding the emergency coronavirus, which indicated to Minister Hope the difference between a scientific committee and a Parliament, between the legitimate scientific positions, of which we obviously have to take account, and the responsibilities of politics, which must, according to those scientific indications, discern a measure and apply it to the life of the Italians. Last night on CNN - because we have to look at what they say about us in the world - Italy was at the center of the globe, with a series of red stains and vectors that were going to infect the world: today we have infected the Chinese, we have given information, also through this kind of urgent decree, of a nation that has panicked, but politically. We got caught up in politics. To administer, to decide, to govern means to assume responsibilities and responsibilities we also assume them by deciding to do things that must take into account a global interest. In these hours I have heard of a revival: EUR 3.6 billion, EUR 20 billion, EUR 47 billion, EUR 270 billion; today I ask you for 500, EUR 600 billion, we make EUR 700 billion and we are not talking about it anymore. There is no quantification, a limit to the gross domestic product of a country that today is probably worth 80% less than last week: it is a thousand billion per year. But how do you quantify? The only ones who have taken an intelligent position at European Parliament level - it will be a coincidence - are Berlusconi and Tajani, who have put questions to the Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund, because they probably need to reconsider the financial aspect of the system and, starting tomorrow morning, we need to print out money. The Federal Reserve, despite the fact that the United States has not yet been affected by the phenomenon like us, has already begun with the reduction of interest rates and the President of the United States Trump said "is not enough" is not enough. Sure. Yet we have seen what happened in 2008. But do we want to talk about the 1929 crisis with the Federal Reserve that started printing money? The problems are two, basically: the first is the inability (but I say it with respect, because it is not said that we are all able) to manage a crisis, taking into account not only the health aspect, but also the economic implications, because the cure in this case is worse than the evil. The cure that we have imposed with such a restrictive decree-law is worse than evil. In a week or ten days in supermarkets there will be no people buying things, because families, at all levels, from the richest to the poorest, will suffer this problem. We must then take responsibility, certainly do actions of health restriction, but not as a state of health, as you have done, because it is a serious and very serious mistake. Behind you have also come local administrators, regional administrators, who have taken the bait of this desire to restrict, because someone does not want to take the responsibility of staying behind and not closing. No, we must not close, we must remain open, because Italy is closed, so we absolutely cannot afford it. Please, I beg you, let us return to reason with an assumption of responsibility and remain open to the world, because today we can no longer move anywhere and those that were the first place sold in the world, Italy, and the second, my Region, Tuscany, today does not want to buy any more, with consequences on investments, developments, financial funds. You may not have figured out what's going on, but if you had 30, 40, 50, 60 or 70 people on your shoulders to pay at the end of the month, you'd probably put the problem in a different way. What I ask of you is to reflect, because otherwise the problem will not stop in a week or ten days. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u37	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u38	Mr President, first of all I would like to offer a thought of mourning and closeness to all the relatives of the victims who are experiencing the pain of the loss of their loved ones. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] A closeness to all the people admitted, with a message of hope, because from the coronavirus you heal and you see it from the data we have every day. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] A closeness to all the regions most affected in their social, family, health, economic, brought to their knees. A thought of enormous gratitude to all the doctors, health workers, the health companies of the Regions, the fire department, the Forces of Order, who are working at an incomparable pace, with massacred shifts for weeks. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Let me also extend a heartfelt thanks to Deputy Minister Sileri, who from the beginning has shown balance, competence and professionalism, things that are missing in this Government, always present, even yesterday in the Commission, even yesterday evening, always ready to listen. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and M5S groups]] Unfortunately, with great regret, I cannot say the same thing to the President-in-Office of the Council. Someone said that he should have been accused of causing alarm, when he made the press conference with the Bertolaso style pullover - but certainly the confrontation is merciless - and announced the state of emergency of our country as if he were to announce Italy's entry into the third world war. It has not been realized, as unfortunately all too often happened to many exponents of other governments even before, but perhaps the unwary words of a minister caused the loss of billions on the stock market within four hours to Italian savers, while in this case the words had a weight with immediate repercussions at the national and international economic level, in addition to the state of terror created in the citizens. Since these words were spoken, in addition to the areas at risk, the cities, the trains and everything that concerns the everyday life of people have been emptied. There are certainly priorities in every country that must not be underestimated and from the beginning all, majority and opposition, we said that the highest priority was public health, but today the health emergency has been accompanied by another emergency, even more serious than the virus, for the country already in difficulty, which is the economic one. The psychological mechanism of fear, which has been established in a few days, has far more dangerous relapses than the coronavirus. Italy first adapted to the directives of the World Health Organization, taking measures adapted to the scientific guidelines, which no other European country has done. Of course, closing direct flights was an important decision - if we read Professor Ricciardi's February 10 statements, we see that it was useless to block direct flights without checking who arrived or left from other ports of call - but I remember that France still has four direct flights Paris-Beijing a day and allowed itself to block a bus at the Ventimiglia border because the driver sneezes. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And we are not talking about other small amenities in France, including those of yesterday. Italy is the only country that has done the carpet tests after China. 21,000 have been made and 2,260 positive people have been found, nearly 60 percent asymptomatic, isolated at home in quarantine, 30 percent hospitalized and 10 percent in intensive care. 11:16 a.m. (Following RIZZOTTI). Our system is reacting very well thanks to the organization of structures and the efforts of healthcare professionals. I repeat: we did the tests free of charge, while the other European countries did not deliberately check from the beginning because, seeing the example of what was happening in Italy, their priority was economic, and they blamed us: shameful! We just think that in France they have done less than 1,000 tests and in the last few days they have discovered 200 positive cases: 1,000 tests, 200 cases; we, 21,000 tests, 2,000 cases. Do a little confrontation on who is plagued by Europe and the world. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] There has been talk of health care workers: for ten days now it has been known that at least 600 cases have been detected in Germany, but they are quiet; in the United Kingdom they got sick three weeks ago, and now it is known, by authoritative people - for example, medical sources such as AstraZeneca - that only in London there are more than 500 positive patients - I stress, sick people - and rightly my daughter who studies there asked me: "Mom, do you think they block the subway?" A country that, after having had 40 asphyxiated deaths in a container, illegal immigrants, gave the news one day and for eight months now no one knows anything about it anymore. Let's think if it had happened in Italy! All these European countries have not only not (for now, because they have not sought them) but are boycotting our country from all points of view, including the request - ridiculous thing! - free virus for agri-food products. What was not understood at the beginning of the spread, that with guilty delay is being understood today, is that no one is immune from such violent contagions. The vaccine is far away, it will take at least a year, but in all this it has shone and continues to shine for absence the European Union, so much so that it is to be asked, even by the most Europeans, what Brussels needs with polemics and divisions. We know that health is a matter for the States, but it would have been appropriate for there to be a meeting with a European protocol to be adopted by the States, certainly in the form of advice and suggestions, not what came from Europe, that is, the roar of accusations to Italy, imagining that France is the problem of the usual neighbours. No, we Italians are very capable; we know our country well and we know that we can give serious answers, especially in times of emergency, for that social fabric formed by people who offer a commitment that goes beyond the institutional tasks or those related to the activities they carry out. Our thanks always go to all of these. I thank the health workers again. And now we're talking about the dramatic situations of our health system? It turns out, that is, with the epidemics that our emergency rooms have been collapsing for a long time, for months, that there are no safety for health workers? I have tabled, on behalf of my group, amendments to the bill for the safety of health workers, who were asking for the fixed police station, the cameras. We all know what happened the other day at the E.R. in Naples for a dead robber: it's a shame! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is a shame, however: I still don't know what the Public Prosecutor of Naples has decided, except for a provision I don't want to comment on; on the other hand, a certain part of Public Prosecutor's Office with a leg stretched opening the inquiry against unknowns for what is the hospital of Cologno. But we're really at the comedians! As for the decree-law, we tried to improve it with our proposals, many of which were accepted by the Government in the decree-law that was deposited yesterday, but I ask myself: do you need an epidemic to wake us up and understand that Italian researchers are the best in the world, underpaid, and that you do not invest in the search of our country? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Do you need an epidemic to find out that the doctors who isolated the virus in Italy are precarious at 1,000 euros per month? Do we need an epidemic? Well, I don't really know. There is the problem, of which I read this morning on the Net, in relation to the next decree-law, of the lack of individual medical devices (Article 34) for which they may not bear the CE mark, but the authorization of the Higher Institute of Health. Well, I think that perhaps this provision will have to be reviewed because the health workers this morning did not agree very much. However, ladies and gentlemen, as a doctor, I am shocked by what has been the crazy management of communication. The only positive side of this crazy management is that, since we are now a country of infectivologists, epidemiologists - figures that are missing in hospitals, but that are always abounding in the media - we have noticed the seasonal influence that made us stay in bed last year more than 5 million Italians, because only 45 percent of the population are vaccinated and we cannot reach 75% of the vaccinations. I was amazed by the deafening silence of the no-vax. I was very surprised because now everyone is waiting for the vaccine. I believe that Forza Italia has demonstrated its responsibility, sitting at the tables with the Government; of course there should be operational measures. We made proposals, even yesterday with the Italian logo; our country must be defended by this Government. As President Berlusconi said, we must immediately review and suspend the Stability Pact in Europe. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Make sure that these proposals are not closed in a drawer, but above all make it quick, because businesses and workers can no longer wait and if we calculate that those who pay taxes in the country for seven months, pay taxes, work to pay taxes, the other five months to keep themselves and his family. And now we take away two months of work; just look around, it's all empty. Let's be quick. I conclude with an appeal to Minister Di Maio; do not speak, please, of "coronavairus" and do not make statements, like yesterday's, saying that he has suggested to our ambassadors in the world to defend the image of Italy. He is the Minister of all Italians: be ashamed! There are 12 Italians stuck in Asmara. [[Protests from the M5S Group]] Twelve Italians, including children, stuck, without buffering. Let the Farnesina bring them home! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u39	She's enlisted to speak Senator Pirro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I would like to make a little bit of clarity with regard to the many news, some reliable and others much less, which they feel about coronavirus. To listen to some we are faced with an illness that will decimate the world's population, according to others it is a simple influence. What's the truth? Reality, as often happens, is in the middle. This is a respiratory virus, but it is the first time that it infects the human being and therefore we have no immune responses. It has already happened with other flu viruses of course, the history of man is full of them. Of course, medicine has made enormous strides over the years, even though medicine is not and cannot be an exact science. There are no two identical individuals, not even the monozygous twins; every human being is the product of an instruction booklet, our DNA, composed of 36 volumes, our chromosomes, for a total of 20,000 known words, the genes, and 3.2 billion characters, the base pairs that make up the DNA. The result also depends in part on those who mount the whole, the so-called environmental factor. I mean, we still have a lot to find out about this, but even if we don't have a cure and we don't have a vaccine, today we can treat the symptoms, in most cases successfully. Having no antibodies to defend ourselves, however, even today we are more easily exposed to serious forms of pneumonia, especially the elderly, the most fragile subjects, with previous pathologies. What we know is that we must protect ourselves with simple gestures, like washing our hands, with careful behavior, as we read in the decalogue of the Ministry of Health. If you have flu symptoms, stay at home, it's not the time to be stacanovists, don't go to the E.R., but call the dedicated emergency numbers. We know that 80 percent of people who get sick have mild symptoms, 20 percent of the criticalities. Then our task today is to reduce as much as possible the 20% that needs hospital care, 5% of which is intensive care. We need to reduce as much as possible the number of people who are infected at the same time, so that our National Health Service can operate in the best possible way, as it has always done. That is why the global alarm and the measures implemented by our Government: to save time to ensure that everyone has the best possible care and the highest rate of healing possible. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] That is why we cannot and must not lower our guard at this stage. It is necessary to continue with the measures to contain the infection in order to ensure the optimal functioning of our excellent - I want to emphasize - National health system. It's a simple speech, as important as it is: the less people contract the virus, the less patients will be hospitalized and those in intensive care. The numbers should be kept low and the only way to get this is to contain the contagions in all possible ways. To this end, we have taken measures to restrict certain individual freedoms and certain inconveniences for a part of the population, but the motivation is collective health and I would say that none of us can have any doubts about that. Similarly, we cannot doubt that we have acted in a timely and correct manner, not in the wake of emotions, but on the basis of data continuously evaluated with the help of the best experts in the field, technical and scientific bodies in this House. We have acted with the necessary flexibility to adapt actions to changing conditions and circumstances. The World Health Organisation and the European Union have also acknowledged this. They have said in recent days that the Italian authorities are implementing measures in line with the global containment strategy: they have had to take decisive but correct decisions. This decree-law, which concerns the first interventions of a health nature, follows others, of an economic nature and of perfection of the same, with the division of the national territory into bands and interventions targeted according to the necessities and from time to time modular, demonstrating the adaptability to the change of conditions and actions as necessary. We hope that this emergency will move quickly, but in any case the measures we are implementing are the right ones to deal with it. The state is there and has acted quickly and in the best way: it is not the time to make controversy and mutual accusations; it is not the time to even hear a President of the Region, according to someone one of the best in Italy, declare that we have all seen the Chinese eat live mice. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] Our National Health Service does not cease to be among the best in the world for the presence of coronavirus: it must only be helped to react in the most suitable way and we are here precisely for this. The decree-law in question goes exactly in that direction and the Government has already announced interventions to strengthen the staff and the structures necessary to continue to guarantee everyone the best possible care. Finally, I invite everyone to inform themselves only through official channels and to be wary of not properly documented and verified news. I begin to conclude with a thought to all the citizens in quarantine, to those in the hospital, to the people and families who have dealt with this virus and to the local administrators struggling with this emergency. I should like to end by thanking the thousands of people who are working every day to tackle the emergency on the front line (medical staff, nurses, technicians, 118 workers and health workers), to all those who make up our very good national health system, one of the best in Europe, which we must all defend and strengthen and which situations like this show how lucky we are to have. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] (at 11.28 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u41	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u42	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too want to address myself immediately to the Government, particularly to Deputy Minister Sileri, Minister Hope and to all those who are carrying out extraordinary work in recent weeks and days. My heartfelt thanks go in particular to all health workers (doctors, nurses and social-health workers) who assist the elderly in nursing homes, to the world of volunteering, to all the Forces of the Order, to the Civil Protection, to the Italian Red Cross and to all those who, even on the territories, are facing the situation, starting with the local administrators, to arrive at the territorial structures, engaged twenty-four hours in twenty-four for this serious health emergency. We must avoid polemics and exploitations, because, as we have said in recent days, when this difficult and complex moment will be overcome, we will have a way of understanding where there have been mistakes and where it has been wrong, but this is not the time. However, I would like to remind those who before me made some controversial passages, that perhaps even some Presidents of the Region, in recent days, have not given a positive image of what is happening. [[Applause from Groups IV-PSI and M5S]] I am thinking of the President of the Lombardy Region and the President of the Veneto Region: it was not a positive image that he has travelled around the world. [[Comments of Senator Rizzotti.]] I don't want to make any more controversy. Today we need to give dignity and get back to having a positive image of our country. All appeals to recover a positive image of Italy in the world should therefore be welcomed. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] We therefore believe that we need comprehensive information and very strong and precise institutional communication. Perhaps we need a crisis unit, a scientific committee, a committee of experts at government level, which can better send out clear and precise information. I say this again in this case without too much controversy: perhaps too much media alarmism has been done. [[Applause from Senator De Vecchis]] They created panic and fear: perhaps it was not appropriate to give our citizens information in that way. I appeal first of all to the national media: be careful when we give the news, because first of all there is the protection of health, but we must also think about the country's economy, about all the people who work every day, not only in Italy, but in the world and make this country great and extraordinary. [[Applause from Senator De Vecchis]] We must be very careful and we - institutions, government and Parliament - have an extra responsibility. First of all, the protection of health comes and we too hold on to the families affected, who have lost their loved ones these days. Also from the Gruppo Italia Viva-P.S.I. and from all over Parliament there is a strong support for all the families affected, for all the people who are infected today and are in hospitals and for all the families, the regions and the affected areas, which I believe throughout Italy, to whom we are truly close and supportive. The whole country has once again shown great solidarity, because our country is a beautiful country, made first of all of human resources. Not only are we close to them, but we must give answers, which are first and foremost in the words of our expert scientists and virologists, to whom Parliament also gives an endless thanks. We know that they are working with considerable dedication and that at the moment there are as many as 20 vaccines on which in various parts of the world, you are working to try to block the virus. They must, first of all, give the correct information. I therefore call for social monitoring and monitoring, for the many fake news that are going around and which unfortunately can find fertile ground in so many citizens; I believe that careful monitoring on social media is absolutely necessary from the institutional point of view. At the same time as protecting health, we must also think about our entrepreneurs and the whole world of work. We must deal with this promptly, with the two decree-laws that we will be going to convert in the next few hours (on coronavirus and on the tax wedge), starting with the most affected regions, those in the North, which are experiencing very hard days in these days. I am thinking of our entrepreneurs, artisans and the whole world of self-employment, which are being put to a real test, as well as the thousands of small and medium-sized companies in all sectors, no one excluded, who are suffering so much from the crisis, and the thousands of workers and workers who are at risk of work. We want to make our contribution, as we are doing in these weeks in a very positive way. As Italy Viva-P.S.I., we have offered a package of proposals to the Government and we are pleased that many of them have found a positive outcome within the measures that will be launched in the next few hours. I think all this work is crucial, because we must not lower our guard from any point of view, from unlocking yards to a plan of investments and resources to be used immediately. We had already said this in recent months, when we have introduced our package of proposals on investments and infrastructures: extraordinary commissioners for strategic works, norms in order to avoid the lengthening of the times linked to the resorts, restoration of the mission Italy Safe and Casa Italy, scholastic construction, simplification and bureaucratic simplification, norms for the ports, the logistics and the airports. These are all measures that can be taken immediately. Our President Matteo Renzi carried out yesterday another proposal of great common sense: expressing solidarity, closeness and support to all the companies and families involved from this very difficult moment, he recalled the need to block the loan payments for 2020, which otherwise our entrepreneurs and our families should continue to pay. This is also a plan that we can adopt immediately. So flexibility is fine, but first of all we are asking for liquidity from the European Union, because we know that the European Union has this liquidity and can support banks, which are then the ones that will have to help companies and families in suspending loans throughout 2020. Mr President, if you will allow me just 30 seconds, I would like to remind you - we proposed it yesterday in this package - of the purchase card, with the measures launched by Mr Bonetti, and another proposal of common sense by Mrs Annamaria Parente (she spoke about it yesterday) on the supplementary fund by way of derogation. This too must be a unitary mechanism capable of immediately helping all workers and workers in difficulty. I believe that Italia Viva-P.S.I. It will continue to give all its help, its contribution and its cooperation to the Government and I hope that, as the whole country is demonstrating unity, solidarity and a sense of duty, something that is done and useful to our citizens can also be transmitted from this Parliament today. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u43	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u44	Mr President, Brothers of Italy from the beginning has moved with a great sense of responsibility precisely because she is aware of the serious risks that our country faces more than any other country in Europe. That some serious mistake has been made is clear to everyone; that some serious mistake has been made in underestimating before the danger is evident to all; that some error has been made in creating excessive alarmism is evident to all and that is also said by the majority here. Of the responsibilities of what happened we will have time to talk about it in past crisis; today we must understand how to get out of the corner because it is clear to everyone that today Italy appears in the world as the country that has spread the danger, the anointing country. If we had quarantined immediately, as was suggested, all those who came from the affected countries and, that is, from China, perhaps we would not have been - paradoxically - subjected to quarantine from China. In this way the message that passes in the world is that Italy is the outbreak of the crisis. This message must be fought immediately and in a unified manner. We appreciated the fact that yesterday, when Giorgia Meloni and Fratelli d'Italia denounced for the first the campaign of aggression conducted against Italy by a French television, the Government immediately reacted in a unified manner. However, as the Chinese ideogram tells us, in every crisis there is also an opportunity. The Chinese ideogram of the crisis is similar to that of opportunity. What is the opportunity that comes from this dramatic lesson that looms over Italy? The first lesson and the first opportunity that all political forces must understand is that, when Italy is threatened, we must be responsible and united in the reaction. We gave a small example on this occasion. We hope that the other political forces and, above all, the majority will understand that we must be united and react together when Italy is under attack. The second lesson concerns emotions. Scientific data on vaccines are emblematic. A scientific study published on July 31, 2019, signed by eight great Italian luminaries (including Walter Ricciardi himself), tells us that, in relation to the missed vaccines, in the years 2013-2017 - I say almost under subheading - there have been 80,000 deaths in Italy as a consequence of the influence, of which 24,981 only in the last year analysed (winter 2016-2017). So the other great lesson is that we have to stop feeding emotions, for example, against vaccines and science because our country has already paid too much for this tendency of politics to exploit. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]] The third lesson we need to learn from all this is that we need to react quickly. When we talk about the global world, we talk about the global village. If we'd reacted together, and immediately, with quarantine, we wouldn't have found ourselves under quarantine. If we had reacted, and immediately, with effective communication, we would not have found ourselves subject to an aggressive communication campaign by other countries. Finally, the fourth lesson we need to learn is that we need to react immediately from an economic point of view, because the real economic and social crisis is just around the corner. Already the January data were disturbing: 40,000 more unemployed and a growth of just 0.3 percent. The data foretelling us the statistics are terrifying. Italy is in danger of entering recession and dragging the rest of Europe into recession. In order to react to this and to make this crisis an opportunity, it is necessary for the ruling class of our country to be able to be united in the next few weeks, not claiming some excess of the deficit, which then we should still repay because it increases the public debt and the spread, but changing the European paradigm that this crisis has exposed. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] . We must go to Europe, strong than we are, to demand, together with others, that European policy change on investment and stability, today more than ever. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Romeo]] Precisely because the whole of Europe risks going into recession with us, in the third and most serious global recession of these years, it is time to call into question the fundamentals of a fallacious Europe, which cannot be a protagonist in global conditions, because it has tied its hands in terms of investment and development. Those hands today, we have to free them. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u45	Senator Pittella is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first important answer that the Government gives and which Parliament gives, I hope in a unified form. It is a difficult time on the health, economic and social level, on the level of trust and projection of our Italy in the world. We need rationality and serenity. No panic, no underestimation. We are faced with worrying realities, but not at the Apocalypse of John, and riding psychosis is irresponsible. My group, my party, is asking everyone to contribute to a collegial, supportive and responsible effort. There will be time, if we want, to resume the political struggle, but not today, friends. Today we respond unitedly. We must ask the European Union for a few things. First of all, we must realize that we are in the time of unpredictability and relationality. And in the time of unpredictability and relationality we cannot respond with anchovies and bureaucratic instruments. Secondly, real coordination of health policies and health protocols in the 27 Member States is needed. Thirdly, the immediate activation of the disaster solidarity fund. And this is a catastrophe. Fourthly, to make all the economic and financial parameters flexible in order to allow the necessary expenditure for the emergency and for supporting the containment of the economic, social and productive crisis and for supporting economic recovery. Finally, we must ask the European Union - it does not seem to be an out-of-work argument - to intervene immediately in Africa, which, because of its lack of health infrastructure, can become a large viral powder keg for all of us. We therefore intervene in Africa, especially in our own interests. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this crisis recalls the finiteness of our human being and must teach each of us that our time has a limit and must be spent for the common good, to cultivate values and principles of respect between us, of love for others, for life, of unity against the forces of evil, of removal of deposits of selfishness, of pride, of haughtiness that make this life less worthy of being lived. We will come out of this tunnel together, as we have done in hairpins even more difficult than our history. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u47	Senator Cattaneo is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too agree with the speeches which call for reasoning, study, daily assessment of the situation, transparency towards citizens, a serious attitude, not an obvious one. I think we're all impressed by what's happening, how our lives have changed in the last two weeks. It hits us and surely makes us suffer to see our country under this enormous health, economic, social and political pressure because of an unknown virus that is scaring the world, but this is the harsh reality and in front of it I am interested to understand what tools our country has to face and contain this emergency. I can think of three instruments, of course I will focus on the health aspect. The first is that it reassures me to think about our National Health System, it encourages me to think about the collaboration between scientists, health personnel, health institutions and policies; it encourages me to see our hospitals, public and private health institutions (IRCCS) in the field together to take responsibility for the health of citizens. I have to say that we are equipped, we are not fasting procedures; the World Health Organization itself has recognised Italy's adherence to all the recommendations; we have chosen the path of transparency, many swabs have been made, many cases have been found: this again is the harsh reality. The second instrument I think of is containment procedures, strategies to crush the epidemic curve. I understand that we need to focus our attention on the next two or three weeks. There we play everything, because statistics tell us that every infected person is like a marble that hits two others, infecting them (a little more than 2). The measures that we are voting on today and the next ones that the government is already developing have exactly the objective of slowing down this effect of marbles that - be careful - is exponential: it is the exponentiality that worries us, that of the next two or three weeks. The goal is to slow down the effect of these marbles in order to crush the curve of the contagions, dilute them, distribute them over time, in the territory, giving the possibility to our public and private hospitals to take charge of all this. Of course, a decree-law is not enough to achieve this goal: it really needs a communication addressed to the country and it needs that the country and the citizens also know how to take responsibility to face together and share this moment. If we don't all cooperate, we're actually gonna get close to a cliff. Finally, I have to say that the third instrument at our disposal is science: we can learn something from this tragic moment, to be better prepared in the future. Think that this is the second time a bat has passed us a virus: this means that we can study why, we can study these mechanisms - next time, perhaps, it will be another animal - we can study the phenomenon of contagion, research its origin, effects, treatment and vaccine, which is what everyone wants. In all this, colleagues, there are no beliefs, there are no opinions, there are no alternative approaches that hold. There are viruses, there is biology, the clinic, research, statistics, immunology, epidemiology. To be prepared for emergencies we must begin with being able to cultivate this knowledge - therefore also biomedical knowledge, research and knowledge - in time of peace. As a country we are advantaged, because we have intelligences, skills and young people ready to study for all of us. My question to you is how do we secure the country's search? Returning to the current situation, today Professor Alberto Mantovani on the "Corriere della Sera" reminds us that minimizing the risks is scientifically wrong, as well as dangerous. 11:58 a.m. (Follow Cattaneo). I believe that, in this new situation, the whole of politics, the institutions, the government and Parliament must maintain a rational and modular, non-emotional attitude in the management of containment measures, which fosters public confidence through transparency. Trust is the key word: trust between states, organizations, institutions, media, scholars and citizens. This confidence is nourished by hiding nothing of what happens, but, at the same time, assuming the responsibility not to exasperate - for click, interest, social control or pure unconsciousness - the innate fears present in each of us. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV), M5S, PD and IV-PSI and Senator Schifani.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u49	He's enlisted to speak Senator Candiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u50	Mr President, this morning's debate here in the Senate has been helpful because different opinions have been discussed. I also like to start from a consideration made last week by Senator Casini: we must do our part, we must not replace the doctors and experts who define the rules that must be followed at this time in order to avoid infection. However, in our political work we obviously have a duty to govern, to ensure that those who govern take on their responsibilities. Mr President, in a nutshell, I have to say that it would have been correct, not only politically, but also honestly, to admit the superficial underestimating of the situation held in the early stages of this serious infection by the Government. You see, Mr President, it makes sense to propose a ceasefire of common sense to all political forces, but we also need, with common sense, to assume our responsibilities. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the other hand, we have heard speeches that have the unbearable common denominator of those who demand the consent of the opposition to government action, without the President of the Council of Ministers having to assume any of his grave responsibilities. We, in fact, remember that Sunday when President Conte spent the whole day passing from one television studio to another: that was not reassurance, but it was an exasperated management of his image, to the detriment of the credibility of the country, and this is unacceptable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] President. - We shall be voting in favour of all the common sense amendments that will be proposed to the Senate Assembly on this measure in the next few hours, because any common sense action that gives certainty to our fellow citizens will be supported by us. This is the responsibility that must be asked of those who sit in Parliament: to look at the interests and the good of the citizens. But we certainly won't make any discounts. This will pass, we will overcome this situation as well, but those who have had the responsibility of government must answer responsibly for their shortcomings. Let's hope it serves as a lesson. Even today we heard in the news reports the words of Professor Burioni, who remembered how important a more determined action would have been in blocking any risk of spread of the infection in the first days, in the first weeks in which it was clear that the infection in China was not an episodic and local thing, as had made us believe, instead, the Chinese authorities. Mr President, we are faced with a first measure, which will follow - they tell us - also an economic one; we would have liked to have had some answers in these terms last night. We know that yesterday's confrontation at Palazzo Chigi was disappointing, because we have only talked about the measures of repression and containment of the contagion, postponing again the answers that must already be given on the serious economic repercussions that this contagion is bringing to our country. We are concerned and distressed by the health of our fellow citizens, but we are also concerned and distressed by the country's economic health for the near future. On this we demand from the Government answers to the situation. Mr President, it has not escaped our attention that yesterday Minister Amendola, coming to 14a The Commission reported on the substantial failure of the summit on 20 February, at which the European countries once again proved to be quarrelsome and unaware of the importance of reviewing the economic and financial management of the European Union. Let it be clear to all government forces that this is proof of the nine of the European Union as a whole. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Or there will be a serious answer - and by "serious" I mean not the release of the greater deficit and pay with your money and with the debts of the next generations the problems that Italy has now, but an answer that takes into account that this is not, like others in the past, our problem, but of the whole of Europe - or it will be yet another demonstration that the European system has totally failed. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] That this could be the risk on the horizon is also confirmed by Minister Provenzano, who just a few hours ago issued extremely Eurosceptic statements. It is not a conversion, but an act of reality. We have already expressed our opinion on these issues for a long time and I believe that a reflection, also following Brexit, would have been wiser and more appropriate, also by the government forces supporting the European government, in which today Mr Gentiloni Silveri is also sitting. First of all, we must give our fellow citizens certainties, security and reassurances; assurances that must be given to all, President, entrepreneurs, health workers, our administrators, the Governors of our regions and all their collaborators, who have been engaged in a battle that has not seen equal in republican history. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Frankly, Mr President, it seemed unbecoming to us to see criticism and even accusations, by the President of the Council of Ministers, of health workers, in particular the hospital in Codogno. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We know that on these people, to whom we give our greatest solidarity and to whom we will give all the support that must be given, investigations have even been opened by the judiciary. This is not how the country is reassured, this is not how it is shown to meet the responsibility of the Government that - let us be reminded - entails honor but also burden and awareness of it is the first demonstration that must give to those who, on the part of the Government, ask for support to the whole Parliament for its action. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Mr President, it has seemed unbecoming to us to read, over the past few hours, that the support that the Government intends to give, starting from the red zones, is 500 euros to VAT matches. We are talking about a country, a government that has made available to those who do not work 700 euros with the income of citizenship. It's unbecoming! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] It is simply unbecoming to think and is unbecoming to be declared by those who govern this country. If the answer is greater deficit, we will certainly not be on the side of this Government and we will not support the measure. The answer must be capable of giving certainty to this country, which today sees in its own productive activities, in the work done with its hands, in the manufacturing that stops, in the farmers who do not find room for their product, certainty of being able to resume with the Government on their side. When we ask our economic operators to pay, for VAT matches it is worth the meter, but when, as at this stage, the government has to help them: it must be remembered that, as the taxes asked, today those workers, those businesses and, those farmers must be supported. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us not trivialize everything by saying that teleworking, distance work can be a solution, because this is a manufacturing country, that finds its wealth in the hands, in the work in the factories and if factories stop, the country stops and this, President, we must not allow it. We would have liked to see here not only Deputy Minister Sileri, whom we respect for the commitment he is making, but also a representation of the Government for the economic side, because we know very well that the second phase is the most serious, which we will come to face in the coming months (and I fear not only in the coming months), will be the serious economic emergency. As Senator Bagnai correctly said, we need a Marshall plan: Deputy Minister Sileri, bring him back to the government. We need a Marshall plan, not a hot diaper. From now on, we must give certainty to our companies, who will have at their disposal all the resources necessary to continue their economic activity, because this is a country that does not bend, but it is a country that must not forget that in addition to this emergency it already has other open ones: Ilva, Alitalia, Air Italy, all the artisans and entrepreneurs who are waiting for a recovery of the economy and who see themselves arrive another hammered on the head. Mr President, we will be on the side of the citizens, we will be on the side of Italy that does not want to stop. We must give this certainty to the country, but we repeat it: we do not do and we will not do discounts, because together with the emergency responses and the prohibitions of these hours, we also need a strong economic response to allow the country to get back up. Collaboration yes, President, but not silent on what to do and the necessary adequate resources that must be put in place, because it is time to do and to do we will always distinguish ourselves, as in these hours and in these days the Lombard citizens, the health workers of the Veneto and the operators of all the other regions involved in this very serious emergency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u51	He's enlisted to speak Senator Romano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u52	Mr President, at the moment we are dealing with a virus with a strong propensity to change and adapt. Only when population immunity has reached a certain level, then the virus will begin to be transmitted with greater difficulty. One characteristic of this virus is to be very contagious. Covid-19 is not the black plague, but it is not even a trivial influence. Seasonal influenza has a significant mortality rate, but the population is largely immune (for previous infections, partially cross-protective against new variants and for vaccination). In such a context, the flu virus snakes among the population and affects a minority fraction of people without significantly affecting the labour force of a country. COVID-19, on the contrary, has no immune memory or immunity of flock. For this reason the virus, without control measures, would have an epidemic trend, reaching to affect a large group of the receptive population before beginning to slow down the progression. This means that, even in the absence of serious forms, a large part of the working-age population would be blocked for weeks with imaginable repercussions on the national economy. Therefore, the restrictions currently in use to stem at least the major epidemic outbreaks should be welcomed. COVID-19 causes serious forms requiring admission in 15-20 percent of cases. These are lungs that are treated in intensive care for several days with the aid of assisted breathing. And even 40 - year - olds or 50 - olds, a large part of the workforce, may need the same therapy. Try to ask yourself how many beds for intensive care there are in the Italian Provinces and how many of these are already rightly occupied by patients who have undergone surgery, trauma, burns. Hence the need to apply all - and I stress all - measures to stem the spread of epidemic outbreaks, even if they are perceived as excessive, considering that the new virus is very contagious and can be defined as a potential pandemic, because it is able both to cause serious lungitis and to kill immunodepressed people. The virus is also characterized by an additional risk factor: the long incubation period, up to two or even three weeks, apparently, which makes it virtually very difficult to contain because of the possible healthy condition of the asymptomatic, slightly symptomatic or not yet symptomatic infected. The appeal I make is to be all responsibly involved in risk communication, without alarming too much and without panic, but at the same time without underestimating the problem. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] You may have noticed that not all the virologies, which crowd television broadcasts daily, think the same way: this is absolutely normal, but the truth is that nobody really knows how it will end. The precautionary principle, if applied well, will never be appreciated enough if then the health problem does not occur. An underestimation of the danger, on the contrary, in the presence of an epidemic out of control would be a catastrophe. The difficulty of making the right decision is a subtle thread linking these two extremes, and it is for this reason that the measures adopted by Decree-Law No 6 of 23 February last are all the more necessary and urgent. The top priority is to save the health system and safeguard medical and paramedical personnel, preventing the assault on hospitals and especially emergency services from making them among the most dangerous places, especially for personnel, and for the greater spread of the virus itself. In addition, a necessary and urgent strategy is to establish preferential corridors in which to channel the possible influx of thousands of cases, or supposedly such, in the coming days or months. [[Brusio]] Ma'am, I'm sorry, I'm hearing a buzz that won't let me...
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u53	Please limit the buzz, especially in the places in front of the cabinet and the benches of the government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u54	ROMANO (M5S). To this end, it is useful to quickly equip the military hospitals of the large cities, which are currently almost unused, so as to transform them in a short time into centres of diagnosis, isolation and sorting for cases requiring intensive care. In conclusion, I feel like saying: let's square. And if it is true, as it is true, that every community is recognized by the people who make it up and the behaviors that characterize it, as in this House, clearly, to the social and health measures and economic ones we accompany the ability to transmit a correct - I stress: correct - information, based on objective and concrete data, avoiding any form of biech political speculation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u55	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u56	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u57	Mr President, I would like to thank the offices of the Health Commission and my colleagues in the Commission, who have contributed positively to the discussion and deepening of the decree-law, demonstrating that unity of intent which, in fact, many appeals have wished, starting with President Mattarella. I join with the thanks that many people in this House have addressed to all health workers, the armed forces, civil protection and volunteering. I join with the closeness to the citizens and families affected by the most serious consequences of the virus. The situation is on the way, leading to the difficulty of making a definitive point both in terms of health and in terms of direct and indirect economic repercussions. The decrees therefore and the DPCM follow the evolution of the situation, but they represent discreet initiatives in the face of continuous development. This consideration makes us anticipate the continuation of measures of a health and economic nature in order to give adequate and corresponding answers to the conditions that we will be experiencing. We will have to work together, including between different Commissions, to tackle the next steps that will intertwine different but interdependent plans, such as the health plan and the economic one. The publication of Decree-Law No 9 of 2 March 2020 highlighted a set of contents that deal with and recover in many cases the aspects raised by the amendments tabled, as we were able to verify at yesterday's Health Commission. I believe that this is a preliminary assessment of what will be the behavior that I will ask you to do in this House with regard to the vote on the amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u58	The government representative does not intend to intervene. I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u59	Mr President, we withdrew almost all the amendments in the Commission yesterday, partly because many of them were accepted in the version of the agenda. We all know that the agenda is the lowest level of acceptance and acceptance by the Government, however we take note and we are grateful for what has been done. However, we would also like to ask at this time for amendment 1.12 to be changed to the agenda because it concerns the guarantee offered to health workers. We have been told that in the next decree these safety elements of health workers will be taken into account, however, since the measure goes first of all to the Budget Committee and we are reduced only to three points of the entire Decree-Law, we would not want to be absorbed by the Budget Commission and therefore we would not want those which are the guarantees offered to health workers to go into the background. We therefore simply call for amendment 1.12 to be transformed into an agenda, which applies as a gentlemen's agreement with the Government, in order to allow the greatest possible protection for health workers.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u60	Mr President, I would like to explain Amendment 1.3, which calls for a freeze on the price of hygiene products, which should not exceed that of 31 January 2020. We are perfectly aware that the companies produce at full rate, they have had to hire staff and acquire raw materials, as yesterday the Deputy Minister Sileri has rightly illustrated us, so these products will certainly have an increase in the price. However, there must be a roof, like all devices: just this morning, the Finance Guard in a parapharmacy in Naples seized lifeguard masks that had had an increase of 6,150 percent. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Faggi.]] The single-veloce masks had an increase and were for sale at 300 percent. If we cannot accept this amendment, we would at least ask that it be turned into an agenda, so that there can be a fair price, without the jackals speculating. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u61	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Amendment 1.13 certainly wants to strengthen the only weapon we have in relation to coronavirus, namely prevention, and we are calling for the possibility of turning it into an agenda. It provides for external triage in all major hospitals, with a path dedicated only to the diagnosis of coronavirus, to protect our health facilities to the maximum because, as you know, we need them very much. We saw hospitals in China: they increased infected people and reduced health workers and doctors who could provide health care, because they also got sick and many health facilities closed down. In the light of that experience and of what the Chinese have experienced, we want to make our contribution, inviting the Government to think about the external triage in all health facilities. We also anticipate the use of sanitizers and the measurement of temperature at the entrance of metro stations, hospitals, trains, shopping centres and hypermarkets, as well as the suspension, for all companies, of the payment of contributions to workers, in all companies throughout the country for two months, then to be distributed in the next twenty-four months. This is the request that we make with this amendment, that we ask for it to be turned into an agenda, hoping that it will be accepted by the Government. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u62	Mr President, we too are collecting the work in progress which has taken place and which the Government has taken as a method of working, in the transition from the Commission to this House and in the Commission's analysis of the next steps. The government has given itself this method that from some points of view might be acceptable, but from others we hope it is not "depending on how it comes" so with some great perplexity. However, Mr President, we in the Commission have made it possible to withdraw the amendments and to turn some of them into agendas, and we have voted in favour of the measure and the identification of the rapporteur in this House. It is clear that this is an attitude of trust, which takes into account the fact that for Brothers of Italy the national interest, the Italians and Italy, the interest of party and party comes first. This is an attitude which I described in the Commission yesterday as almost a friend, in the sense of good consort trust, but of course we are not consorted or engaged: we are one here and one there. Compared to this, it will be important to understand well what will happen from here to tomorrow or the day after tomorrow, if it is true that this blessed or cursed virus - we will see in the end whether it will be blessed or cursed, but it will certainly be more serious than it seems - has a capacity to double the infection in three days, as it has been observed, and has a communicability for every infected 2.5-3. If that is the case, in the next few days we will have to put these measures back on track. So, at this moment, I think we need some caution and a little generosity, my dear colleague Sileri, to go a little further than the current situation, because we know with certainty that in a few hours or a few days we will have to face a very different and more impacting situation, starting with the identification of other red zones and also within the current red zones, where the situation does not seem to leave room for optimism. Mr President, it was announced in the Commission that a second measure on health issues would be presented, that it would be incardinated in the Senate and therefore in the Health and Health Commission, and then a measure on economic and financial aspects would be presented. I understand that this idea has already been overcome: I understand that a measure of an economic and financial nature will be enacted, with three articles dealing with the health side. If that is true, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand how, with three articles of a measure, we can supplement a decree-law on the health side, such as the one we are examining today, which is largely inadequate, as has been pointed out both in the work of the Commission and in the contributions made by colleagues from Forza Italia and the League, through the agendas. [[Call the president back.]] Am I done yet? Didn't I have seven or eight minutes? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. It's five minutes, Senator Zaffini. Mr President, I would like to take advantage of the need for a summary and advance consideration of the need to turn Amendment 1.14 into the agenda, which concerns the allocation for all police officers: it is the news of the day before yesterday that there are many people infected by the police forces, who find themselves having to perimeter red areas without the necessary means of personal protection. The other amendment that I would like to turn into an agenda is 2.0.2 which contains a number of measures relating to the financing of recruitment, by way of derogation from the current rules on the blocking of recruitment, medical, nursing, paramedical, etc. I therefore call for amendments 1.14 and 2.0.2 to be turned into agendas. As far as the general reasoning is concerned, I reserve the right to complete it in the explanation of vote. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u63	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u64	I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u65	Mr President, like what has been done in the Commission, I am calling for a withdrawal, otherwise I am against all the amendments. The first signatories of some of the amendments proposed their transformation into agendas; some time is needed to assess this request in its content. I would ask the presenters to confirm that I have listened well to the indications: in Article 1, are these amendments 1.14, 1.13 and 1.12? PRESIDENT. - The debate is Senator Collina, the first amendment that has been proposed to amend the agenda is Amendment 1.3 by Senator Rizzotti. , rapporteur. I'd ask you for a five-minute recess, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Collina, can you give your opinion on everything else? Afterwards we analyze the requests for transformation into agendas. Let's start with the agenda already filed. Mr Collina, rapporteur. I give a favourable opinion on the agendas for G1,100, G1,101, G1,102 and G1,103. I am in favour of the G1200 agenda, provided that, both in the first and in the second commitment, the formula is inserted to assess the possibility of the G1200. I am voting in favour of the agenda G1.104, G1.105, G1.106, G1.107 and G1.108. On the agenda G1.109 the favourable opinion provided that the words "in compliance with budgetary constraints" are added to the Government's commitment. The opinion was also in favour of the agendas for G1,201, G1,110 and G1,202.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u66	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u67	All right, so we have amendments 1.3, 1.12, 1.13, 1.14 and 2.0.2, which have been proposed to be transformed into agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u68	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u69	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u70	Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. Mr President, yesterday, during my work in the Commission, I made an invitation to withdraw from all those who tabled amendments, because, amendment by amendment, I explained exactly what the Government was doing and what we would do in the following days, so some of these amendments are partly answered in what we are doing. However, I also understand, listening to Senator Zaffini's words, the need to turn some of them into agendas, as well as in the case of Senator Rizzotti's amendment on the increase in costs, even though yesterday I explained extensively in the Commission, for example, that it is not possible to block the price of hygiene products on 31 January, as provided for in Amendment 1.3, because that industry, which is producing, had to hire people to increase production by 60% and when it is quickly assumed the cost of labour is higher and the raw materials, which come from abroad, have a higher cost. It is therefore clear that there may be an increase, provided that it is below a clearly defined limit. These about twenty minutes of suspension are necessary for there to be a total openness to Parliament, and everyone can add something inside that, however, has a present value and is not contained in the future. I think it is really helpful to listen to all of you and add, wherever possible. It is clear that they cannot all be transformed into agendas because - I repeat - many measures will be ahead of us, but there is a need to listen to as many of you as possible in order to regain the spirit of unity that is needed at this time. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u71	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u72	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u73	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, when I address my colleagues who have tabled the amendments, we too are invited to find a solution in these twenty minutes to accept certain agendas with the hope that the other amendments can be withdrawn. In fact, knowing that the decree-law must be approved today, without any change, would put us in a position to abstain on their amending proposals. The logic is therefore to find, in twenty minutes, a unity of intent on certain agendas, leaving aside any vote on amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u74	Since there is no opposition, I suspend the sitting until 12:55 a.m. and then resume and conclude these proceedings. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 12.37 p.m. and resumed at 12.59 p.m.) 12:59 p.m. The sitting was resumed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u75	Mr President, if I interpret the previous speeches by my fellow Members, all the amendments will be withdrawn except those for which the agenda has been requested. I therefore propose the rewording of this transformation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u76	We need to ask the presenters for confirmation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u77	Mr Collina, rapporteur. Yeah, I'm saying that as a premise. The reformulation of amendment 1.3, which has been changed to agenda G1.3, is as follows: it commits the Government to monitor unjustified increases in hygiene products. The hope is that it will be accepted as a recommendation. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would ask those present whether they accept the amendments proposed by the rapporteur. Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). I welcome them, Mr President. However, I would add the reference to medical devices in the rewording, so as to include the subsequent amendments. Mr Zaffini (FdI). I agree, Mr President. Mr Collina, rapporteur. I welcome Senator Rizzotti's proposal. With regard to amendment 1.12, which is proposed to turn into an agenda, I would like to reword it as follows: It commits the Government to continue the provision of individual protective equipment in order to protect the health and safety of pharmacists and staff working in the pharmacies of the municipalities in epidemiologically endangered areas. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal? BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. Mr Collina, rapporteur. With regard to amendment 1.13, it is proposed to turn it into an agenda, with the formula: "It commits the Government to consider whether the content of amendment 1.13" should be considered. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Siclari, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal? SICLARI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. Mr Collina, rapporteur. Finally, with regard to amendment 1.14, which is proposed to turn into an agenda, I would like to reword it as follows: It commits the Government to continue and implement the supply for the allocation of all police officers, leaving the remaining part of the text of the amendment identical. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Zaffini, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal? Mr Zaffini (FdI). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The representative of the Government may speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u78	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u80	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u81	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, with regard to our two agendas, G1,105 and G1,106, we would ask for the vote in this House, despite the fact that there is agreement. If all the other agendas were to agree, we could vote on them all. On this decree-law we have already given our full availability; ensuring at least one strengthening with the vote in favour of this House could be an important signal. I can only speak for the two agendas of the Lega Group, the others must agree with the other presenters.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u82	As I seem to record a sharing on Senator Romeo's proposal by all the presenters, we will put the agenda to the vote. Amendments 1.1 and 1.2 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.4 to 1.11 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u83	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u85	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, Amendment 1.10, signed by myself and my colleague Mr Totaro, who we have withdrawn, essentially provided for, in a more concise way, what is on the agenda G1.12 (text 2) that we are about to vote on. I therefore request that the agenda presented by Senator Binetti be signed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u86	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u88	SBROLLINI (IV.PSI). I would ask that my signature be added to the same agenda. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Binetti, I'm asking if you agree. BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, ma'am.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u89	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.12 (text 2), tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u90	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u91	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u92	LONARDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I should like to point out that I was unable to vote in the last vote. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency takes note of this.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u93	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u94	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u95	SUDANO (IV-PSI). Mr President, I would also like to point out that I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u96	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.13 (text 2), tabled by Senator Siclari. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.14 (text 2), tabled by Senators Zaffini and Totaro. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.15 to 1.19 have been withdrawn. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1,100, tabled by Senator Ortis. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,101, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.102, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.103, tabled by Senator Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Bernini, do you accept the request for the rewording of the agenda G1200? BERNINI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1200 (text 2), presented by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1,104, tabled by Senator Wolf. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.105, tabled by Senator Fregolent and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.106, tabled by Senator Fregolent and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u97	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u98	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u99	Mr Laus (PD). Mr President, I should like to point out that I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u100	The Presidency takes note of this. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.107, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.108, tabled by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Gallone, you have been asked to reword the agenda G1.109. Do you welcome her? GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Yes, ma'am, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.109 (text 2), tabled by Senators Gallone and Moles. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G1201, presented by Senator Castellone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on agenda G1.110, tabled by Senators Toffanin and Gallone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.202, presented by Senator Paragone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u101	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u102	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u103	LANZI (M5S). Mr President, I would like to point out that I was unable to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u104	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u105	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u106	LEONE (M5S). Mr President, I too have not been able to vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u107	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u108	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u109	MOLLAME (M5S). Mr President, I was not able to vote either.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u110	The Presidency takes note of this. We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u111	Mr President, in line with what has already been done for Article 1, the reports on the transformation of the agenda concern the additional amendments. On the remaining amendments, I am against or call for them to be withdrawn. With regard to amendment 2.0.1, which has already been put on the agenda and which has been accepted by the Commission, I would ask that it be transformed into an agenda with the wording: "to consider whether the content of amendment 2.0.1" should be implemented. As far as Amendment 2.0.2 is concerned, I am opposed to changing the agenda; Mr Sileri will point out the reasons. With regard to amendment 2.0.3, I propose that it be transformed and accepted as an agenda with the wording: "to consider whether the content of amendment 2.0.3" should be considered.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u112	Mr President, the Government gives its assent to the rapporteur's opinion. With regard to Amendment 2.0.2, I would like to explain the opposite view. The amendment, which sets out the need to increase all health care personnel, is a measure already in place and will clearly vary from Region to Region depending on the course of the epidemic, and especially with the movement of health workers from one area to another. This concerns the first part, being a measure already in place. As far as the third point is concerned, this part is already on another agenda and that is why we are calling for withdrawal. If not, the opinion is against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u113	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u114	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u115	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, as far as Amendment 2.1 is concerned, I would first like to ask the rapporteur to sign Binetti... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Amendment 2.1 has been withdrawn. Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, can it not even be accepted as a recommendation? Tax doctors are completely unprotected.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u116	No, because it doesn't exist. He's been withdrawn. If Senator Binetti, instead of withdrawing it, asks for it to be transformed into an agenda, we are talking about it, otherwise it is a text that does not exist. As this request has not been made, let us move on. Amendments 2.1 and 2.2 have been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u117	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u118	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u119	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 2.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u120	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u121	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u122	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, we anticipated the withdrawal of all amendments 2.4, 2.5 and 2.6, and we called for them to be turned into agendas, but they were not accepted. Mala tempora currunt, we accept the sad fate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u123	Does Senator Papatheu accept the amendment proposed by the rapporteur on the agenda for G2.0.1? PAPATHEU (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I welcome the amendment. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Romeo, is the request for a vote also valid in this case? ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.0.1 (text 2) presented by Senators Papatheu and Giammanco. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u124	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u125	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u126	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I withdraw amendment 2.0.2. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Does Senator Lonardo accept the rapporteur's request to turn his amendment into an agenda with the proposed wording? LONARDO (FIBP-UDC). President, I welcome the rapporteur's request.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u127	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.0.3 (text 2), tabled by Senator Lonardo. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 3 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u128	Mr President, I am against or would like to withdraw the amendments referred to in Article 3. There have been reports for the transformation of the agenda, in particular amendment 3.0.1, which has already been transformed and accepted as an agenda in the Commission, always with the formula: to consider whether the content of the amendment should be implemented. The same applies to the change in the agenda of Amendment 3.0.2 with the formula: to consider whether the content of the amendment should be implemented. The opinion was opposed to all other amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u129	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u130	Amendment 3.1 has been withdrawn. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would ask the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u131	Mr President, I am in favour of the agendas for G3,100, G3,101 and G3,102. On the G3.103 the opinion was in favour, provided that the first commitment provided for the formula: "to assess the possibility of "."
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u132	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u133	I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G3.100, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G3,101, tabled by Senator Boldrini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.102, presented by Senator Rampi and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Gallone, do you intend to accept the request for rewording on the agenda for Mr G3.103? GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, I welcome it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.103 (text 2), presented by Senator Gallone and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Binetti, do you accept the proposed rewording of the agenda G3.0.1? BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.0.1 (text 2), presented by Senator Binetti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Senator Rizzotti, do you accept the proposed rewording of the agenda G3.0.2? Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I accept the rewording proposed by the Government, but I also propose that the words 'tax doctors' be inserted. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to make their views known on the reworded agenda.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u134	Mr President, I welcome the reworded agenda. Mr SILERI, State Secretary for Health. The Government's opinion is in line with that of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u135	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G3.0.2 (text 2), presented by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendment and the agenda referred to in Article 4 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u136	Mr President, I call for Amendment 4.1 to be withdrawn, otherwise I am against it. I am therefore in favour of the G4200 and G4100 agendas.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u137	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u138	Senator Zaffini, do you accept the rapporteur's call for withdrawal? Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 4.1. PRESIDENT. - The debate is I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of G4200, presented by Senator Castellone. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda of the G4100, presented by Senator Rizzotti and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u139	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u140	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u141	Beginnings (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, it is quite clear that what we are experiencing is a complex situation, which calls each of us to a sense of responsibility for the choices to be made towards our communities. These are choices that turn out to be complex and painful, because even our country has been faced with a virus that is not only testing our system, but is also undoubtedly entering the everyday lives of people, distorting in small part their habits - our habits - and changing needs. Several times in these days I have tried to imagine how difficult it was, in such a delicate phase and at such a complex time, to adopt contrast solutions to the spread of a virus that, although not lethal to the majority of citizens, turns out to be extremely contagious, as well as dangerous for the most fragile and therefore most exposed and vulnerable subjects, such as the elderly, cancer patients, immunodepressed or even for those who live in precarious health conditions. The complexity and difficulty of the decisions to be taken is manifested in the speed with which, day after day, the situation changes and the measures adopted today may therefore not be sufficient for tomorrow. Colleagues, I believe that this is also an opportunity to grasp a great lesson: we will not emerge from this crisis individually, but we will succeed not by the personal abilities of each one, but by the collective and community effort that passes from the commitment of the institutions and from the trust in the institutions. As Professor Francesco Longo of Bocconi University said, this is the first time history has entered our private lives. I said this before: this virus has entered our lives, changing even our way of greeting and being together. All this must make us understand how interdependent we are from each other; how much responsibility for the actions of one another has an impact on the lives of the other. If we think about it, it is precisely in these situations that we rediscover the importance of being a community, understood not only as the whole of the people who are united by social, linguistic and moral relations, but also as the complex of national and supranational bodies through which we have managed today to obtain measures that are helping to guarantee the health and life of many people. This same story, however, teaches us and also highlights something else. There is a vulnus in the order of our state, in the division of competences that it assigns and that inevitably, in a crisis situation such as the one we are experiencing, emerges clearly. In the mechanism of division of powers between state and regions, but I would also say outside the specific context of health, between metropolitan cities, provinces and municipalities, and in the cooperation between the state level and the regional level, in the need to identify the supremacy of decision-making of last resort, there is something that does not work. This is a subject which has long been known and which we are repeating today. Colleagues, I firmly believe that, when this crisis is overcome, all of us, even in the diversity of the legitimate political positions of each one, will be called upon to analyze the critical issues that have emerged from this point of view; difficulties that, if overcome, need a reform process that will enable the decision-making process involving the powers of the State to be efficient and improved. But this is not the time to deal with the debate. In fact, in the face of the difficulties of the system just exposed, I feel obliged to thank those who, with a huge sense of responsibility, commitment and sacrifice, are guaranteeing to our community measures to stem and counter the advance of the virus. In the chain of command and control of the crisis, the first citizens of the Italian municipalities are playing a very important role, and I would like this House to thank them for the courage, tenacity and strength with which they are facing this emergency. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and Senator Collina]] : mayors who directly address their communities, explaining the measures adopted by the State; mayors who answer the questions posed by people, families, traders, streetwalkers, businesses, bars, restaurants, sports associations, school leaders, parish priests, all understandably intent on asking for clarification about their specific condition regarding the current crisis; mayors who compare themselves on the most correct ways of applying the rules decided by the State and who ask for the support of the other institutions, then giving feedback to the citizenship; mayors who, in the midst of the sudden crisis of consumption, invite their fellow citizens to support the local commercial activities; mayors who reorganize their agenda and the operating modalities of their municipality to better address this emergency; mayors who interlogate with the health authorities on the dynamics of the spread of the virus; mayors who interview doctors titled because they better inform the citizens, reassuring them and informing them to respect the established rules; mayors who communicate to their fellow citizens the presence of cases of contagion, in respect of privacy and the style of those who want to be transparent, who want to be open to those who want to provide the best information, who want to reassure me and to reassure me; mayors who want to reassure me as well as they want to satisfy themselves; mayors, they want to make them with the necessary decisions that they want to satisfy themselves; The whole thing obviously happens, while ordinary activity proceeds and while the administration implements the choices made. The mayors are the front desk of the state, the institution closest to the citizens, the one to which people turn for every need and to which they look for indications and explanations. These mayors, as one of them wrote yesterday evening, that of my city, Ermanno Zacchetti, are those who with their words and their example know how to infuse their community awareness, responsibility, attention to the indications on prevention behaviours to be followed avoiding panic. To the mayors I feel I have to say thank you because in this emergency coronavirus are doing an incredible job for their communities and, therefore, for the whole nation. Together with them, my thanks and that of the whole Italian Group Viva-PSI goes to health professionals, doctors, nurses, social-health workers, managers and administrative staff of hospitals that in these hours, with great sacrifice and a spirit of self-denial, also endangering their own health and that of their loved ones - as always happens - are working incessantly to guarantee relief and care to those who in these hours need it, quickly reorganizing, where necessary, the spaces and logistics. What is happening here shows once again, if need be, what it means to be able to rely on a National Health Service such as the one built and on which our fellow citizens can count. In this respect too, I hope that what we are experiencing will serve as a lesson. We have a duty to continue to ensure and improve a health system that is efficient and that, above all, guarantees the right to care and health for anyone who needs it. President, I want to conclude my speech by leaving a simple and clear message to the Government and, specifically, to the Ministry of Health and to Minister Roberto Speranza. We are aware of the enormous difficulty faced by those who face this emergency by taking decisions and taking action. The Italia Viva-PSI Group is ready to do its part; we are at the service of the country and ready to help and support for what is our responsibility for the action of the Government and those who are called to manage this emergency. We have difficult months ahead of us. The economic damage this virus has caused will call on this House, the Government and Parliament to make a huge effort to restart Italy and to support the many entrepreneurs, traders and craftsmen who are suffering huge losses. There is a clear liquidity problem for many operators who need urgent measures to be rigged; Italy Viva-PSI will be ready to do its part. In expressing my support and that of the whole Italian Group Viva-PSI on the measure, I would like to conclude by reminding you that today we have an important task: to take the right measures to stop this virus, but in addition to what we are doing, now comes the time to make difficult decisions and communicate them, carefully avoiding communicating without having decided. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u142	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u143	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u144	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, in part we have already motivated the attitude of the Brothers of Italy Group before in the Commission and now in the Chamber and I will now make a few final comments. We are concerned that there is confusion between those who are more in good faith and those who are more in bad faith (but always in good political faith), between the two plans of this emergency, which must instead be considered and evaluated, also because of their political repercussions, in a completely distinct way. One plan concerns health measures to contain and combat one phenomenon; the other concerns the economic, financial and fiscal plan and, therefore, all measures to contain the economic effects of health effects measures. Colleagues, there is a cause-effect relationship between indispensable and necessary containment measures to contain the spread of this epidemic and the contrast of the inevitable effects of these indispensable measures on the economic life and the many economic activities of the country. Compared to all this, it is necessary not to make confusion. More or less in good faith, however, I observe a great confusion in the positions I listen to. This is causing damage to the citizen, a disassembling of him. The government, first of all, which is making a great deal of confusion between these two plans, should instead give signs of security, of authority, should give certainties. At this moment, we record disorientation in the citizens, from the race to supermarkets to inexplicable and incomprehensible attitudes, both in terms of lightness and superficiality and dangerous underestimation or, on the contrary, excessive alarm and concern. With regard to all this, Brothers Italy says something very clear. One account only measures of a health nature, where Brothers of Italy squares with the Government (I first used a colorful term but to make us understand). On these measures we accept the deployment of measures such as work in progress, as has been chosen to do, and we hope that they will finally be useful for this purpose. Until now, however, we have seen some confusion, starting from the first moves, then, it seems that in the following we have recovered to some extent. On this Brothers of Italy he shields, in view of the need to transmit to the citizens a single message and, above all, give certainties and security. It is, of course, quite different with regard to measures of an economic nature. With regard to these, there is a need for debate, there is a need for politics, there is a need for confrontation, there is a need to verify these measures that the Government intends to implement but above all to understand what Europe will do. Colleagues, this morning an authoritative voice, that of the "Finncial Times" not evidently that of Senator Zaffini, says that the overtaking is necessary, indispensable and therefore allowed. It is a banality, but on this banality we must understand each other. Italy has a deficit-GDP ratio, thanks to the conjunctural situation, referring to Count 1, equal to 1.6%. So we even did better than what they asked us to do. We have margins to get to the famous 3%, but if we have to, we have to go further. In fact, it is clear that we, on the one hand, must seal important pieces of the country and the nation, which are also in this case, unfortunately, the economic locomotive of Italy, that is, the regions that pull national GDP, which make turnover and affect national GDP, on the other, we must face, together with Europe, given our quality of net taxpayer, the necessary measures to support our economy. This must not be questioned either. Colleagues, I want to close with a passage of hope (hope that is not the Minister, but the feeling, of course): if this was the famous shock that Italy needs to wake up, we in history have witnessed many other occasions when our country has square in the face of emergencies. Giorgia Meloni from her song, as transmitted to her by our noble fathers of the Italian right, in front of the emergency square in defense of the citizens. Here, in front of this we must make sure that this great emergency can be that electroshock that serves everyone, everyone for their part, to start again to do their duty, to better interpret the pride of being Italian, to interpret the political relationship between majority and opposition, to understand that the legislative measures that will be issued by the Government (we hope that this experience of government is as short as possible) and from the future must all be oriented to recover our role in a Europe that, as has been said several times by all, is proving to be particularly stepmother towards Italy, but above all particularly inconsistent, unable, inetta in relation to the emergencies that it has to face. This of SARS-Cov-2 is obviously an emergency and will involve all the countries of Europe; the other, relating to what is happening at the Greek-Turkish border is another. They are two emergencies that also have some common roots, but the only true common root of these two emergencies is the ignorance of Europe, of a confederation of states that unfortunately is not such, that claims to establish the curvature of bananas, the length of zucchini, etc., who has more to put them, but does not assist us in the moments of real emergency or even of calamity, like this one that is investing the Italian economic activities. We are therefore waiting for the second measure with measures of a health nature and for that we will adopt the same attitude; on the contrary, we look forward to economic measures (and on those, instead, our attitude will be a normal dialectic between majority and opposition) because there is obviously no joking about them; we are not joking about the first ones either, but we need to give a strong signal to Italy, to economic activities and to our fellow citizens. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u145	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u146	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u147	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, if I have understood correctly, we are right to approve the decree-law in question unanimously and I would like to sincerely thank the opposition that has made this choice, because I consider it important and decisive, even in order to deal with this unprecedented emergency, for a virus that we have never known and which has put us in the face of a very difficult situation. Criticism has been made and, as some colleagues in the opposition have also said, we will discuss it after the emergency and after dealing with it. We must avoid the classic commuting for which the theme is considered either as the plague or as something less than the influence. This is not the case; the situation is much more serious and we must all be content with it. The real problem is the spread of the epidemic. We're all soccer coaches and we risk being all virologists. It is enough, everyone doing their part well, I say it also with reference to that scientific debate that cannot, however, represent an element of confusion in this country. Responsibility, in fact, must be a commitment of all. The absolute priority, therefore, is the containment of this epidemic; the "content": I try to use precise words. We cannot now - and those who say so are deeply mistaken - to eradicate this virus; we must therefore have an attitude that allows the different actions that we must do in progress to correspond to the objective of containment. From this point of view it is essential that there are rules, but we know that the behaviour of citizens is also decisive. That is why communication and the message, which is up to us, is vital when it is authoritative, otherwise it is not so. It must be an authoritative message. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a kindness to work in unity: it is a duty. It is not politics that withdraws, it is politics that gives the best of itself, now giving up, today, the polemics about what it has been to make sure that the message to be given to citizens about the behaviour of individuals, of people, is unique. Of course, we thank the health system, our operators, all of them, as well as, of course, civil protection and law enforcement. We are doing an important job, there is an extraordinary commitment, but this emergency - I am told this - calls us to a reflection. Some colleagues, including the opposition (and I agree with him), in particular a Senator of Forza Italia, have rightly asked to open a reflection on the health system once the emergency has ended. I would not want us to go back to commonplaces that have no value, either today or tomorrow. In the Constitution - it has been cited by a colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars - is already previewed the superior function of the central state in relation to emergencies. We do not have debates that are not needed, especially at this time. Of course, we will have to reflect on the experience of the last eight to ten years, which indicate an approach - let me tell you this, because language is also important - economics of health management, which has led us to a really critical situation, before the coronavirus. [[Applause from Senators De Petris and Di Marzio.]] It is clear that we now record all the consequences. Do you want some examples? If we have blocked the staff issue for years, since 2009, how do we think that in the face of such delicate situations we are not faced with the problem? There was still discussion, a few hours before the coronavirus explosion, about Italy spending too much on health care. Italy is in the penultimate place among OECD countries, but this has always been written in all statistics; attention, therefore, are the bad teachers in health care. If this Coronavirus drama helped us clear the field from unfounded banalities, it would still be a good thing. Ours is the country that has the lowest ratio beds for 1,000 inhabitants and we realize today what it means. [[Applause from Senators Castellone, De Petris and Di Marzio.]] Not because we do not have to go to territorial health in prevention, which is a strategic element for primary care, but it is clear that there is a problem not of powers but of organization, because we still have an old organizational structure, which is not able to correspond to the new technologies, nor to the one that can represent the real great revolution, that is digital health, nor to face other problems, such as the one relating to the function of medical guards or doctors of general medicine, or that of the reorganization of university training. Now we need beds, intensive care and resuscitation, and look at the fact that beyond the number of scholarships (and what effort, colleagues, we have done to predict a thousand more), there is no vocation for intensive care and even anesthetists are a very limited resource; the system of medical faculties needs to be reorganized. [[Senator Ronzulli's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u148	The House is not very crowded, so one of its whispers is also heard.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u149	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). President, I have no problem, I'm very quiet. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I have them. I invite you to continue and conclude. Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). I'm going to conclude. That is why I believe that one element is essential: it is the health system that must react. I have not shared and do not share dialectical logics between the central state and the regions. We need to work on the system and not only on the decrees, but on the project to address this emergency, which involves processes of transformation into regional health systems. We will then discuss the strategy, then we will discuss the polemics. Finally, it is clear that this requires a European strategy, which is not there. I do not want to think about swabs now, but first of all we need a strategy on the health emergency in Europe, which is not there. Europe must also change its criteria. I also ask, as others have done, that the government put the change of European policies at the centre, as it is doing positively, because from this health crisis we will arrive at a very heavy economic crisis and we need a great investment plan on which Europe must re-found its authority and credibility. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u150	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u151	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u152	BOLDRINI (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is useless to say that we are undoubtedly experiencing one of the most difficult times in the history of this country. Of course, the coronavirus is giving us a teaching: the health of the planet is unique, and we are realizing it, as already announced the c limate change: we have one planet, one health and one climate to keep under control. In the face of this unprecedented medical emergency, my first thought, as well as to the sick, goes today to the victims and their families; it goes to the immense effort of health professionals who are working in the health world in recent weeks, from the beginning of the contagion, at a very fast pace, twenty-four hours in twenty-four hours: doctors, nurses, researchers, often with precarious contracts. However, they remain absolutely at the workplace and must do what is required of them, so analyze the many swabs. All this for the common good. Let us therefore remember that we have a health community that are keeping the country together from the point of view of our health. A praise of recognition goes of course also to the Forces of the Order committed to guarantee access and surveillance deemed necessary in the red areas, to the Civil Protection and above all to the citizens of the affected areas, who are living with composure and civilization a really difficult time for our country. We are faced with an emergency that is first of all health but also economical. We are seeing it: our economy and the future of many people are on their knees, and many jobs are at risk. Well the government will do in the next few days to worry, with the decree-laws that we will go to examine right here in the Senate, to undertake new initiatives for activities such as social shock absorbers, that can support all the enterprises that are at risk at this time. I do not forget tourism, culture, entertainment - we have also adopted an agenda for people working in these sectors - the small and medium-sized industry, and I do not go to mention others because we already know our problem. The health system has not been found unprepared, it is true, with its thousand problems, as we have heard before: personnel problems, which remained there, ready in its place, to put in place all the energies and skills that makes it one of the best in the world. I always try to remember this: we have a health system that for the cost-effectiveness ratio is still one of the best in the world, helping people who have problems without looking at the census, the social class of belonging. Should I remind our fellow senators of what happened in America? How much did that dad have to pay to know if the swab was positive or not for his baby? We have seen how much it cost him; not everyone can To afford it. We must therefore be proud of what we have. Surely, being hard tested with the emergency, our health system will be able to give the right quality health response to this challenge. We must be able to give uniform and unanimous answers; these must be, starting from these classrooms, as I have heard today. Unanimity is sought: if we are united as a country we will also be able to stem the spectre of the economic recession, which is there, around the corner. The government, despite some pretentious and propaganda controversy, was timely when it realized that there was a need to face an unusual and considerable emergency situation, in a context made even more complicated than the media dissemination of information that was not always accurate and correct. That's what we have to tell ourselves. We are witnessing on all TVs at talk show p er regarding coronavirus: not all information is correct and panics our citizens. The only site that should be consulted is the official one, of the Ministry of Health, together with the newsletters that civil protection issues every day; those should be the lighthouse of information for all. No one has ever said that our country would be free; we have noticed it, as I said before. Italian citizens were immediately informed of the measures that the Government considered important; we also had information - two of them - from the moment we found the contagion in our country. For this we thank Minister Hope and all the staff and the task force of the health care that is also giving information. The measures launched by the Government have been very numerous to date, and they will still be, because everything is constantly becoming; the emergency will require commitment and hard work and is actually evolving. We have heard, in fact, that there will be another decree-law of the President of the Council of Ministers from a health point of view, with further restrictions. We, of course, pay a very high price for our country that today is seen from abroad, as we have also seen in some commercials, as "the anointer." In truth, however, we were the first, the most active ones compared to others, in screening activities because our health system was able to allow us to do so. Therefore, at this stage, political polemics must be reset, as has been done, to avoid drunken exploitations and to assume a great sense of responsibility, without trivializing the concerns and fears of citizens, but at the same time avoiding psychological terrorism and creating panic and alarmism. Europe has also been referred to first. The President of the Commission, Mr von der Leyen, has asked for a task force to be set up on the subject of health. Of course, we will also need economic flexibility. I hope that this voice will also be heard by our country. At this moment it is more necessary than ever to give a just dimension to an emergency that is serious, that rightly puts anguish and fear, but it is certainly not impossible to govern. The decree-law that we are preparing to convert into law today, although it is already overcome by events, allows us to define a legal framework, unitary and shared, that allows us to make systemic in these days the urgent and extraordinary measures to face the evolution of the epidemiological situation. A legal framework shared in a strategy that sees an institutional chain, (Government, the Ministry of Health, the Higher Institute of Health, the Regions and Municipalities) that defines punctually the measures to contain the epidemic and, at the same time, the scope, promoting a choral and coordinated action. This is what we need in order to avoid, as we have unfortunately seen in some cases, individual initiatives or escapes forward. We are really facing a complex challenge for our country, but we are equally aware of being a great country. We have done it in many other things; we remember what happened a long time ago - I always think of the earthquakes that we had to face - with a quality public and universalistic health system, with a population able to resist and face even the hardest difficulties. The big bet that we have to win is precisely to ensure mass prevention and to limit the contagion without creating social alarm, to ensure timely interventions of protection, to cure everyone without causing anxiety and frenesia, to inform and above all to inform well - I repeat - with clarity and punctuality. This emergency, in its drama, has made it clear how fundamental it is to rely on science and the scientific community, our Senator Elena Cattaneo said it well before, to ensure the right behaviors to assume in cases of contagion. Now is the time to gather around the affected populations, but not only, to make sure that our country returns to normal soon. Now is the time to move along the directions that the experts give us; each of us carries with him a piece of responsibility to overcome the next weeks and to contain as much as possible the contagion. I hope that this House will express a sense of unity and reach our citizens a united message, such as what we expressed yesterday in our Health Commission, so that there really is a concrete response that sees us united also from a political point of view. This is what people need; to see us united in such a serious situation. For these reasons, I am of the opinion that we will all be able to overcome this great problem together and announce the Democratic Party's vote in favour. [[Applause from the PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u153	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u154	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u155	CANTU (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we have said and confirmed that when we convert Decree-Law No 6 of 23 February into law, we will go loyally to support the Executive, in a logic of unity and institutional responsibility, trusting that you have incontrovertible scientific evidence, that they have justified its adoption, as well as the prescriptive provisions contained in the various DPCM implementations and related and consequent ordinances, both concerted with the Minister of Health and exclusive regional adoption. It is true that, seen from our angle, it would seem that the underlying decision has as its motivation to transfer any responsibilities to the Regions. With regard to the pandemic national health emergency, what a government worthy of this name - and indeed of a founding State of the European Union - could and should have applied in accordance with Article 168 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union has been disregarded. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] When the problem was fierce and unconclaimed, it would have had to ask forcefully and authoritatively for the European Union to adopt common prevention measures and procedures for the containment of infection, implementing a European health cord, the only one that could have been truly effective. We consider, in fact, that this European health cord could have been such as to address the problem as a whole, assuming that it was not already too late, except that there is no counter-proof and that we are in a historically unique situation. That is why we had to ask for resources and not for suspensions, authorizations and overtakings. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] It should therefore have been envisaged to allocate resources for any outbreaks that would have been likely to occur in China or in China and the World Health Organisation. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] In this way, there would have been evidence of joint responsibility in a European way, by means of a compensatory regulation which would take account of the levers available. But Europe has once again shown that it is not playing the role it has been set up for, that is, giving us the indispensable force at a global level that individual nations cannot and cannot have. Even with regard to the prevention of possible epidemics, every decision to contain the infection is effective only if it is shared and applied at European level. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] Any national measure is partial and the discipline of Article 168 provides for it. Once again, Europe is absolutely pervasive in controlling the overtaking of the zero comma of budgets. So far, however, it has been totally absent, when it was a matter of moving to protect the health of individuals and the well-being of their fellow citizens. Unless, with the manifestation of situations similar to the Italian one, in States whose governments know how to assert themselves more than us, it does not radically change the way of action. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is what we want to stress and that we would like to discuss in a European way when we have the opportunity, because we believe that prevention and solidarity should not be alternating currents and that, above all, with regard to transnational policies, the protection of the health of individuals and of the community must always be a priority. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Everything I have just said is only valid and if there were no data and information, albeit silent, such as to suggest that the virus was already circulating in Italy. That is why, as I said before, we will do a fidelistic act and vote in favour of the measure, despite the obvious shortcomings and shortcomings. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , also due to the fragmentation of knowledge and skills, lacking a transnational research coordination of the COVID-19, for the identification of the most effective diagnostic means, therapeutic targets against which to test drugs in clinics, molecular mechanisms and genetic bases of disease associated with infection. Despite the critical issues I have expressed, the vote of the League-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione will be favorable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u156	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u157	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u158	MANGIALAVORI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, for once, in fact perhaps for the first time since the beginning of the parliamentary term, we are faced with a decree-law that really meets the requirements of necessity and urgency. Coronavirus is a dramatic reality, which has already caused, ahinoi, several victims. Of course, we give them and their family members an affectionate and moved thought. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This is not the time for controversy, but it must be the time for questions and there are too many questions that have not yet been answered. While as a doctor, even before being a politician and an Italian citizen, I thank all those who are at the forefront, even at the risk of their personal safety, but I reflect on the fragility of the country system and of a political majority, bent by contingency to quickly re-determine its government agenda and its priorities. You asked us to lower our tones and we, responsibly, in the interest of the country, have avoided speculating on your inefficiencies, but the overall picture of great fragility continues to worry us of course. We must prevent the country from succumbing to panic and hysteria, demonstrating that it is able to respond with strength and cohesion to this crisis, which is likely to have no precedent. Our economy is suffering heavily from the current crisis and the consequences are still impossible to determine. An objective assessment and an intervention plan will have to be carried out on the disruptive effects of the public economy and the private economy, which is far from simple. There are entire sectors in crisis; just think of the transports, completely forgotten by you (see Alitalia), the tourism, on which is founded a significant part of the national economy, in particular of some Regions, and in general to the damage of the distribution on the induced in Made in Italy. On the current emergency too many questions have not yet been answered. Does Italy actually have antibodies to cope with such a crisis? Is the National Health Service, beyond the generous action of medical and paramedical personnel, sufficiently equipped to deal with this crisis? Would research not deserve more attention and investment from the government? One thing is certain, that is how coronavirus has had such a significant impact on the vital ganglia of our community. Social habits and habits have been called into question. The modus operandi and vivendi of our population have been undermined; there are necessary limitations to the most elementary freedoms, see that of movement. Theatrical activities, cinemas, commercial companies, schools, stadiums and politics themselves have stopped. All this has projected civil life in a condition never seen in the recent past. And so forms of self-protection and technological support have been activated, see smart working and online lessons; but of course these are not and cannot be sufficient. One wonders to what extent all this will affect life in an irreversible way, in the near future and in the longer term. Needless to focus on data and considerations that are now known to all Italians. It is not the number of infected, real or presumed, nor the death rate, however significant, that worries; the real risk is that, in the case of a pandemic spread, the national system may not be able to withstand the impact of the many admissions in intensive care. It is useless to underestimate the disruptive effects and risks of this epidemic, but it is equally useless to create psychosis and easy alarmism. We need firmness and caution, but at the same time vigilance, accuracy and competence in the choices put in place to counter the spread of the virus. Politically speaking, it must be said that in circumstances such as these a country must be united and compact. Anyone who engages in behavior of mere electoral speculation is totally devoid of the basic elements to invoke worthyly public representation. All this, however, must not and cannot deprive us of the duty to highlight the criticalities of the political management of the current crisis. This is said without any polemical spirit, but by objective critical sense, which cannot be implied even in critical situations such as this. The Government did not always convey the idea of firmness and, in some cases, certain measures were somewhat late, partial and sometimes contradictory. In some cases the Government has appeared uncertain about what to do and communication has not been up to the situation at all, but - I repeat - this is not the moment of controversy; instead, it is the moment of unity. Political forces must be united to overcome this emerging phase. The wish of course can only be to find soon a vaccine or cure against coronavirus and that today, as then, politics, institutions and government, in synergy with the scientific world, can be equally determined and effective. For this reason, Forza Italia will vote in favour, but with a clear warning: Government, your credit is exhausted; we will no longer make discounts to your mistakes, your incompetencies and your delays. We also expect that our proposals, already from the related economic measure, will be taken seriously, convinced that our experience as a government can make a fundamental contribution to the resolution of this crisis. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u159	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u160	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u161	CASTELLONE (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we are dealing with is probably the biggest health emergency in recent decades. We are faced with a non-ordinary event, an exceptional event. The new coronavirus is not highly lethal, but it is definitely a highly contagious virus and, therefore, its propagation, if not contained with all possible means, risks spreading creating necessarily management problems. The Government reacted promptly by activating the preventive and safety protocols foreseen in the emergency of health and by setting up a 24-hour task force at the Ministry of Health in January - so not on 21 February, as someone said. We were the first to close air traffic to and from China by declaring the state of emergency, with an initial allocation of several million euros; we activated the sanitary cords at the airports and started active surveillance. We have appointed the Head of Civil Protection Commissioner for Emergency and installed technical tables with highly qualified experts who constantly follow the situation. With the same resolve, we have acted from a legislative point of view by putting in place a series of ad hoc decrees on both the health and the economic fronts. The economic measures to support the most affected areas and the labour market will, as we know, be the subject of measures already announced. Today we are about to vote on the first of these decrees which provide for security measures to contain a contagion which, otherwise, could be more extensive. The containment of the spread of the virus is, in fact, at this moment our priority and also our greatest responsibility. We must do this by all means we have and by putting all possible measures in place. The measure also includes further measures to regulate the framework of interventions in a unified manner and to ensure uniformity throughout the national territory in the implementation of programmes for the prevention and treatment of patients. It has become evident, since the early stages of this emergency, the need to have a single national direction to guide the management of events of this magnitude. The discrepancies generated by the arbitrariness with which, in respect of their prerogatives, each Region has implemented different initiatives, have generated so much confusion and some error. We can't afford any confusion or mistakes. I would like to reply to Senator Pepe, also as a woman in the South, telling him that in the emergency room of the hospital Pellegrini, that emergency room of a hospital in Naples, which is located in one of its most ill-famous areas, which has been vandalized and that I visited Monday, since January has been set up an isolation room to prevent the hospital itself becoming an outbreak in case of arrival of infected patients. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] So, I don't agree to hear you say that if the outbreak arose in the South, we wouldn't have a chance. On the contrary, I invite you to reflect on why it has arisen in those regions! [[Applause from the M5S Group]] In the face of this emergency, our eye must, in fact, be lucid in examining the fragility to which we must meet. This emergency, in fact, has revealed a bitter truth: the inefficiency of the policy that preceded us in the planning of investments according to the real needs and in the allocation of resources in favor of the most critical areas. The degeneration of public hospitals, the reduction of beds provided for by the number of inhabitants, with the promise of a strengthening of territorial assistance, which, in reality, has never arrived. General medicine reduced to place of health recipes. Overcrowded emergency rooms, non-existent isolation wards and intensive therapies that don't have enough: that's what it meant not to invest in health care. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] That's what the unholy cuts of the past decades have meant. That's what it meant not to invest in those areas that represent the first bulwark in the rescue of human lives, which are first aid and emergency urgency. Places where medical, nursing, volunteer, social-health workers, 118 workers fight every day under conditions of absolute precariousness, victims of frequent aggressions and real heroes exposed in the front line to protect the health of all of us. The strengthening of private health care to the detriment of public health did not create a crutch to the National Health System but, rather, depleted it of valuable resources, which were invested in highly profitable sectors and certainly not in emergency or resuscitation. The human resources we have are heroic, but they are too few. We need hiring in the health department. We've been saying this forever. We also asked on two agendas that we approved here today. The good news is that for two years we have been reversing this course. We're back to investing. This year we have confirmed in the budget law the EUR 2 billion allocated in the last budget law and added an additional EUR 2 billion for the national health fund for technological enhancement and infrastructure. We have made provision in the budget law for the stabilisation of health risks and the smoothing of the rankings of fitters. In the tax decree we raised the share of the regional health fund to be dedicated to the recruitment of staff, going to increase further the threshold already raised in the so-called Calabria decree to overcome the blockade of recruitment that was in force until last year. A large amount of funds were announced yesterday to strengthen the National Health System, with the aim of increasing beds in intensive care by 50 percent and beds in pneumology and infectious diseases by 100 percent, together with an extraordinary staff recruitment plan. We absolutely cannot allow a health system like ours, the most just in the world, the most human, the fairest, to implode under the storm of numbers that cannot be managed because those who had to plan did not know how to do it in time. In the same way, we must try to fill the gap best due to the lack of coordination between local authorities and central government, in the spasmodic race of governors and mayors to show their skill with full powers, amplified by the craving of sensationalistic scoops by the media. Not to mention the political exploitation, which was the most humanly painful thing at a time when cohesion, social ethics and unity had to be the only protagonists in the field. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The tragedies, the great challenges, are faced only united, in the interest of the common good; instead we will pass to history as the only Government that, in a moment of world health crisis, has been questioned by jackals to whom of the common good, and in this case of the safety of citizens of a nation, really affects little or nothing [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u162	It does not seem to me the right theme to turn this House into a place of controversy. I ask everyone, both the speaker and the rest of the House, to remember this simple notation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u163	CASTELLONE (M5S). Panic, mistrust in institutions, fear of not being safe have generated irrational attitudes in citizens, such as the rush to the supply of consumer goods and personal protective equipment that should be left to health professionals and fragile subjects; in other states it has led to a closure towards us that today puts at serious risk the hold of our economy; in speculators it has produced an attempt to profit from the fear of people, increasing the price of some products presented as life-saving. [[Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u164	Colleagues, this really doesn't feel right. I certainly cannot speak on the content of the speeches, for which everyone takes responsibility, but it is my duty to speak to the House, which must leave it to the speaker to express his arguments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u165	CASTELLONE (M5S). This Government and this Parliament are fighting on all fronts (health, social, economic) in an impeccable way, with great competence and without rest. To our fellow citizens we must convey the awareness that Italy will be able to stand up, always with its back straight, and that we are here to protect and defend them. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] To the doctors, my colleagues, nurses, volunteers, social workers, 118 workers, we assure support and all our gratitude. The tents equipped in front of our nosocomi are proof that our health care staff is ready to get on the field always and anyway. To all of us, finally, I say to put aside every secondary aspect, every expendable dynamic, and fight together for our wonderful country, because we will only make it by sticking together. Therefore with conviction I declare full support for the Government, the Minister of Health, the Undersecretaries Sileri and Zampa and announce the Group's vote in favour. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Comments from FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u166	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). I declare the result of the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot: [[Senators present 240 Senators voting 239 Majority 118 Favourites 234 Absent 5]] The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u167	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1698. The rapporteur, Senator Fenu, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I note that the sitting will be suspended from 3 p.m. to 5 p.m. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u168	Mr President, this decree-law, published in the Official Journal on 5 February, introduces measures to reduce taxation on labour as indicated in the programme of the Counte-a Government. The proposed measures aim to restore purchasing power to public and private employees and, consequently, to revive consumption of individuals and households, whose purchasing power has been reduced in recent years due to the economic crisis and due to some economic policy choices over the last 20 years, which have often resulted in the devaluation of labour incomes. Choices perhaps made in good faith, in order to respond to the mercantile policy implemented by neighbouring countries and linked to us like Germany, probably to rebalance our trade balance, limiting consumption and therefore imports. (14.43) (FENU followed). Choices that have, however, contributed to the destruction of our purchasing power and the consequent collapse of domestic consumption. With this first measure, which precedes a more comprehensive tax reform, we want to ensure that citizens have a fairer system, with the reduction of the tax burden on employees and households, which will see their disposable income increased. In total, for the reduction of the tax wedge on the salaries of employees, the Government has allocated 3 billion euros for 2020, 3,850 billion euros for 2021 and 3,574 billion euros annually from 2022. Entering into more detail of the measure, the intervention consists of supplementary treatment of income and a deduction from gross tax, both in favour of employee income recipients and certain similar incomes. In particular, Article 1 provides that, in the case of a revision of the income support instruments, where the gross tax is higher than that of the deduction for employee income, the taxpayer shall be granted an additional amount by way of treatment. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u169	Even in view of the imminent suspension, I would ask those Members who wish to remain here to lower their voices so that the rapporteur can carry out his report.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u170	FENU, rapporteur. Article 1 also regulates its operating procedures. The income for which supplementary treatment is granted is that of employed persons with the exception of pensions of all kinds and allowances equivalent to them, as well as certain income similar to that of employed persons. Supplementary treatment is only required if the total income is not higher than EUR 28,000 and is equal to EUR 1,200 per year from 2021, while it is equal to EUR 600 per year 2020. In addition, it is related to the number of working days and is responsible for the benefits rendered since 1 July 2020. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of Article 1 govern the operational arrangements for supplementary treatment. The tax substitutes are required to recognise the supplementary treatment by sharing the amount of the remuneration paid, verifying their dues in the context of equalization. The non-respective treatment may be recovered by the tax substitutes through the compensation institution. Paragraph 3, as amended by amendments 1.7 (text 2) and 1.19, of which the Commission in the referee proposes the approval, provides that the tax substitutes referred to in Articles 23 and 29 of the decree of the President of the Republic No 600 of 1973, automatically recognize the supplementary treatment referred to in paragraph 1 by dividing it between the remuneration paid from 1 July 2020 and verify in equal measure the dues of the same. Where supplementary treatment is found not to be the case at that time, the same tax substitutes shall recover the amount thereof, taking into account any right to further deduction as referred to in Article 2. Where that amount exceeds EUR 60, the recovery of that amount shall be carried out in eight equal instalments starting from the remuneration for the effects of the equalisation. The following Article 2 provides for a deduction from the gross income tax of natural persons entitled to the same income holders to be considered for the purposes of the supplementary treatment referred to in Article 1. The amount of the deduction is equal to 600 euros at a total income of 28,000 euros and decreases until it is zero to reach a level of income of 40,000 euros. The deduction is temporary in that it applies only to benefits paid during the six-month period from 1 July to 31 December 2020, with a view to a structural revision of the deduction system. Article 3 provides for the repeal, as from 1 July 2020, of paragraph 1-a of Article 13 of the single income tax text (TUIR), which regulates the so-called 80 euro bonus. The Article also specifies the definition of the total income to be taken into account for the purposes of the measures referred to in Articles 1 and 2. It is specified in particular that it also notes the free share of the subsidised incomes of teachers and researchers, as well as of the preferential incomes of so-called displaced persons. In addition, the article provides for the establishment of a fund for indifferent needs related to interventions that have no effect on the net debt of public administrations, with a budget of €589 million for 2020. Article 4 provides for the quantification of the costs arising from Articles 1, 2 and 3, paragraph 1, valued at 7,458 billion euros for the year 2020, 13,5332 billion euros for 2021 and 13,256 billion euros annually from 2022, which increase, for the purposes of the compensation of the effects in terms of net debt and requirements to 8,242 billion euros for the year 2020, and identifies the related cover. Finally, Article 5 regulates the entry into force of the measure. To conclude, for employees with incomes between 8,174 euros and 28,000 euros, the bonus will be recognized directly in paycheck, for an amount equal to 100 euros per month, while for higher incomes, and up to 40,000 euros, a new tax deduction will be recognized instead. The beneficiaries' audience, between private and public employees, thus increased by 4.3 million, from 11.7 million receiving the 80 euro bonus to 16 million. The reduction of the tax wedge has been discussed and discussed for a long time and the need for action to reduce the tax burden on employees has been stressed for years. This decree-law constitutes in this sense a first important piece, necessary, but which must indeed prelude, as it is written in the provision, to a wider reform of the system of direct taxation. A reform for a fairer tax. If we want to think of an IRS and in any case a more equitable form of withdrawal between those who produce income and wealth in our country or between those who derive income and wealth from our country, I cannot fail to remind colleagues and the Government, also on this occasion, that we need to arrive at a system of taxation of web companies that is increasingly close to the ordinary system of taxation. There are many obstacles on this road, there is a need for European collegial decisions, there are also threats of retaliation in terms of duties by some countries, but we must not give up. It is no longer possible to tolerate this discrimination of tax treatment, especially when the person who receives the most favorable treatment is precisely the one who draws - and would be said to drain - more resources from the country. It is as if after the industrial revolution, after the birth, the expansion, the exponential growth of the incomes produced by the industry, continued to ask to contribute to public spending only to the peasants, perhaps through their feudalists. This is an intolerable situation. The measure before the House today is a help to modern vassals and that is why it is right and shared, but we must begin to ask for a greater contribution to new producers of income and wealth. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u171	I declare the general discussion open. Senator Conzatti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u172	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are working towards a fairer, more transparent and growth-oriented tax system. Today we still have a superimposition of many anti-evasive and anti-evasive rules, which make the system particularly complex and oriented, rather than growth, to support revenues and therefore the rebalancing of public accounts. We have a slightly blurry focus on evasion, in the sense that the fight against evasion is absolutely right, but we are much more focused on making compliance and controlling the emerging than on making a very severe contrast to the submerged. So let's say that this is a positive measure, but it is an intervention of ordinary maquillage and, thanks to God, the decree-law makes it explicit, because it says that it acts in the blackberries of a more structural revision of the tax system (then I will return to the point in detail). This denotes a great awareness of the Government, because it gives us direction and tells us that we are going towards a necessary revision, in reality urgent for some time. The second premise I would like to make is that working on the reduction of the wedge means that the government is consistent with the commitments made, the recommendations made by the Council of the European Union and the OECD in relation to the necessary reduction of the tax wedge. We know that the OECD rankings identify us as the third country with the highest tax wedge and that we are ten points above the European average. This obviously gives us a huge negative gap, in terms of the competitiveness of our companies and the benefit of our workers. We know that the tax wedge has three main components: one is the employer's contributory burden, the other is the employee's tax component and then there is the employee's contributory burden. This decree-law decides to work only on the part relating to the worker as far as taxation is concerned and does so in part, leaving out again - I say again because I think it is a priority - to work also on the employer's front. It does so in part because, despite the title of this decree-law (urgent measures to reduce the tax burden on employees), in fact the measures are not exactly consistent with the objective. The objective of expanding taxpayers' disposable income is certainly being achieved, the audience of taxpayers who have this increased disposable income is being expanded, and a virtuous job is also being done to standardise disposable income, with respect to different categories of income and therefore employees and similar workers, pensioners and self-employed persons. It is not yet perfectly uniform because, despite what is said, with regard to assimilated employment and pensions there is a substantial uniformity, while with regard to self-employed, even flat-rate workers, we still see that this disposable income is slightly lower than the other two categories. It is therefore certainly worthwhile work on increased income availability, which means greater spending capacity, greater capacity to give - at least in a normal and not extraordinary context such as the one in which we are living today - a just stimulus to the economy. Article 1 of this decree-law, in particular, does not correspond exactly to the title of the measure because the 80 euro bonus was a tax credit placed in the single text of income tax (TUIR). This reform, which absorbs the amount of public resources made available to the bonus of 80 euros, pouring them on the supplementary treatment of 100 euros, has the advantage of increasing the benefit, to increase the audience up to the threshold of 28,000 euros, but, from my point of view, being expounded the measure from the TUIR, it is not a reduction of the tax pressure but an additional treatment. Many say it is a matter of form; of course, those who are not passionate about tax may also think it is so, but it is a substantial issue, which is evidenced by the very long debate on the 80 euro bonus, which lasted almost all of the last legislature, and concludes in support of those who did not lay in favour of the placement in the reduction of the tax burden of that instrument. Personally, I would have preferred to have gone in the direction of transforming the tax credit into deduction, with the necessary corrections as regards the incapients. I am convinced that the latter have a problem with a lack of income, not so much with a lack of tax measures in aid, since the income of the incapients is almost zero. On the other hand, Article 2 of the text is much more satisfactory, since it introduces a real deduction. It is a temporary instrument, in a virtuous way, it is said, because we are going towards a revision of the Irpef system. A further deduction is required for an even larger number of incomes, between EUR 28,000 and EUR 40,000. It is a measure that could have been much more powerful in my opinion, because the curve of the Irpef levy is really a trap for the income bracket from 28,000 to 55,000 euros. It is 5 million taxpayers who pay 45% of Irpef's income, therefore, an audience that is particularly weighed down by a step-up to 38% on marginal incomes above EUR 28,000. It is a group of taxpayers, corresponding to what was our Italian middle class, particularly capable of keeping up with our country, particularly compliance with the requirements, which - it appears today - have too high incomes to benefit from the aid for low incomes (additional treatment) and at the same time too high incomes to have to undergo a tax clearance of the third bracket equal to 38 percent. From this point of view, it would probably have been necessary to extend completely the audience of this temporary deduction not only from 28,000 to 40,000, but from 28,000 to 55,000 euros. I understand that there was a problem of appropriations on the budget law, but it would certainly have been more coherent and of great help. Many, even in doctrine, say that this section of taxpayers suffers a surreptitious deformation of progressiveness and I am particularly convinced of it. Well, however, that there is an important first step, fundamental, in the right direction, which, in my opinion, still remains the revision of the Irpef: tax bases, tax scales, rates and also deductions, not only a revision of deductions, as is stated in the decree-law. Therefore, the measure is an ordinary measure however positive; a measure that, at a time of severe economic crisis like this, should make priority the feeling that a substantial revision, an important revision of the tax system aimed at growth should be added to all those additional measures, including the shock plan for investments that we have proposed as Italia Viva, which should be put in place at a truly important and dramatic time from an economic point of view such as this. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u173	I support the sitting which, as agreed, will resume at 5 p.m. for the continuation of the general debate. (The sitting was suspended at 3 p.m. and resumed at 5.08 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u174	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u175	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u176	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to bring to your attention and therefore to the attention of the whole House a fact which I do not know whether to define as serious, but which is nevertheless extremely significant of the climate that has been created at international level, in the light of that emergency that we are rightly told must be managed in a climate of harmony. But of course harmony does not preclude the examination of the causes and also the examination of the consequences. I have been told - and here I have the evidence - that an important international television chain, CNN, has released an infographic so conceived: cases of coronavirus connected to Italy. You can see Italy at the center of a planisphere, which is a bit where history, before geography, put it, and from there start many red arrows that go to infect countries such as Brazil, the United States and China itself. Now, in my opinion, we should reflect on two aspects: on what can be the consequences of such a communication, which I clearly believe are deadly and difficult to reversibility (not only for our tourism), but also on what causes it. I do not want to be controversial, but I must say that, if I am not, I must make a great effort, because I cannot fail to remind myself when, a few days ago, our fellow citizens were asked to embrace, for example, Chinese citizens (against whom I have no animosity or preconception), on the basis of the principle that we should not be racist in such an emergency. Now the problem is that, perhaps, what we are seeing is the consequence of a way of managing the political struggle of this country that hurts us. In other words, to attack an imaginary racism, in my opinion, we have created an equally imaginary pestilence whose outbreak would be Italy. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Perhaps because, by accepting the invitations of our sister Europe, the one that is defending the Greek border at this moment, to be productive, we wanted to show that we were so productive that with 15,000 inhabitants of Codogno we would be able to infect the 6 million inhabitants of Wuhan. This is the paradox that we are witnessing, and this is the situation that we need to remedy. When dealing with a problem that has its own concreteness as a health emergency - I want to make a very dispassionate and non-controversial invitation - dust up certain categories (which, for goodness sake, have their dignity) such as, for example, the fight against racism or fascism - which in the meantime should also be found - can make sense. The subject is that it is difficult for me personally - let me express my personal opinion, which does not necessarily reflect that of my Group - and also, I believe, for many citizens to escape the impression that this exploitation of the political intonation of a certain group of people and this hunt for imaginary racism has resolved for our country in a dramatic autogol. I ask you to reflect on this when you ask us, as is right, for solidarity, harmony and national unity, which we are naturally willing to give. This error has been repeated too many times: too many times a political party has not hesitated to vile the image of the country at international level for having a real or presumed gain on the national terrain. I hope this is the last time we've seen a show like this. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and the Senators Aimi and Zaffini.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u177	It is not for me to go into the subject of the debate, but it seems to me that we are all engaged in very responsible behaviour in the defense of the country, both as a health care and its image in Europe and in the world. Therefore, I believe that the call to responsibility and rationality is to be assumed with consequent behavior on the part of all.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u178	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u179	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u180	MALAN (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, of course, on behalf of Forza Italia I express my indignation at the fact that the issue of the coronavirus epidemic has been raised on CNN. They are heinous situations and we ask the Government to intervene at the highest level and with the greatest energy also towards this great international channel possibly also suggesting a claim for damages, because somewhere a court to which this television chain can respond there will be and that an important nation like Italy takes action of this type I think it has its weight and could have some effect. We know that this happens as a result of the unfortunate and disgusting, as well as based on totally false assumptions, videos of that French channel that is not even worth mentioning. It is important that the Government, together with so many other things that we know are on the table with the emergency of these days, take on this problem of image that we also have for certain perspectives given by some Italian and Italian media. Therefore, I believe that greater composure and cooperation at all levels is important, as well as a greater unitary will to do everything, of course, to counter the spread of the epidemic and to take all the measures that are necessary at the health and economic level (which, as we stress from the outset, risks being a more lasting emergency than the health emergency, which we hope will soon see its decline) but also at the image level. In fact, we must give the idea of a country that is proud, also of its own health system, of the work that many doctors and paramedics are doing, of the work that the Armed Forces and the whole country are doing, that is engaged in this field. It is important for the government to know that it has the support of everyone. Then we know, as it is normal that it is in political and parliamentary dynamics, that there is disagreement and criticism on many aspects, but it is important that the Government acts with this awareness and that it does everything possible not to feed those internal divisions, which are always there, that they bury under the ashes. It is important that it does not give rise, even with its behavior, not always appropriate in some circumstances, to dissensions often manifested, also, in turn, in an inappropriate way. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u181	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u182	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u183	Mr Zaffini (FdI). Mr President, I would like to thank the previous speakers. It is really difficult to think of the randomness of these events, it is really complicated to derub them to the banal freedom of criticism, information or satire. The French channel, it has been clarified that it was satire: I do not understand what kind of satire could express that video. Same exact thing I feel like I have to say by looking at CNN graphics, which is being recorded today. I believe, Mr President, that all this has a single purpose, that of attacking our tourism turnover, which we know is a very important part of our Gross Domestic Product. Compared to all this, we need to receive precise information from the government about what it is doing to counter these events, which are not trivial and simple attitudes: we all know that CNN is probably the first television network in the United States. So, it's something that questions us deeply. At a time when a climate of "national unity" is required and granted in the higher national interest of Italians and Italy, I believe that by the Government these arguments must be in some way justified, that is, one must say what the Government intends to do to counter this misleading, lying and certainly dramatically conflicting information with the national interest. We have already canceled today. Today Federalberghi estimated in exorbitant figures the damage on tourism: spring is coming, summer is coming, Easter holidays are coming. This information on channels from two very important countries for our tourism turnover, such as France and the United States, clearly causes a damage which, as Mr Malan and I believe it is important to reinforce the concept, can even call for compensation of an economic nature. We must understand what the Government intends to do with this enormous and enormous problem. We must understand this quickly, including by informing the Senate of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, as he is responsible for the matter.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u184	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u185	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u186	Mr Ferrari (PD). Mr President, I try to interpret what Senator Bagnai tried to tell us and see if I understood correctly. Senator Bagnai recalls this Assembly to a common spirit, which, according to his colleague, should direct all behavior, every measure, every attitude, every decision taken, such as the one taken unitedly to approve the decree-law a few hours ago, in the direction of safeguarding the health of Italians in the face of this emergency and to keep Italy's reputation high and strong in the world. If that was the spirit of his speech, know that the Democratic Party not only agrees, but is fully engaged at all institutional levels, from this Assembly to all local administrations, with so many mayors and presidents of regions that bear the symbol of the Democratic Party [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Sbrollini]] If, on the other hand, the spirit was to open up a polemic against those who have made a small false step or who have excavated in tones these days, we are not, but I have the impression that this accusation cannot come from anyone. We were the first - and I say this from Lombardy, from Pavese, therefore from person living a few kilometers from Codogno - to offer the maximum collaboration to President Fontana, even when in the first weekend and in recent days in the Lombardy Region, the largest in Italy, there were dramatic hours. This is the attitude of the Democratic Party and it is what I said earlier and that I hope is the feeling of this Assembly, that is to defend the interest, the daily life of the Italians in this important health emergency and to defend until the end the reputation of our country. I think that this emergency we are all facing together: it is not by chance that a very significant dialogue is taking place between the Government and the Presidents of the Regions. This is an extraordinary emergency that will leave us in dowry many consequences, decisions, even important, to have to assume in terms of restriction of personal freedom in order to manage the emergency health; it will leave on the ground the need to intervene with very significant initiatives, powerful on the level of the ability to affect in order to revive the economy of our country. I also think that if we are intellectually honest we must also recognize that it will leave us many teachings - but we will talk about it - about how a global world leads countries to have to manage epidemic situations of this kind. I repeat, therefore, once again, that I take Senator Bagnai's intervention as an incentive to be united and not to speculate. Let me conclude by reminding you that Manzoni said that the language was worked by men to understand each other, not to deceive each other. If that is the spirit of this resumption of the session, I think the Senate will be well represented. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u187	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u188	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u189	SBROLLINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I too join in the last speech by Mr Ferrari, because I consider it important to start from here, as we have also said in this morning's speeches, a united spirit compared to what is currently the priority: the protection of the health of all Italians, of our country, and the defence of the image of Italy in the world. We have been hurt by the videos, the attacks, even in bad taste, that we have seen in these days from other countries and I believe that those who represent institutions at all levels today must be united without controversy and avoid that there are accusations and exploitations of all kinds, because at this moment we are called to seriousness, rigour, even sobriety in giving the correct information and each of us from this point of view must play his part and be responsible to the end. I close by appealing, once again, as I did this morning: we really need a single institutional channel to give effective, serious and clear communication with respect to too many agencies, notes, too many speeches and ads (I apologize if I use an expression perhaps wrong) that only bring chaos in communication itself. And since we have to be the first to communicate correctly, let's do it well and try not to make unjustified alarmism at this time and to monitor both what happens on social media, where fake news unfortunately is constantly increasing, both the relationships that we have to have with the national and unfortunately also local media. For this reason, in my opinion, the Government is at the moment the only one who can make a unitary and official communication, clearly based on certain data that must come first of all from the technical-scientific committee, which is currently in the direction cabin. It is from there that the correct information must come about the great health and economic emergency that our country is experiencing. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u190	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u191	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u192	LICHERI (M5S). Mr President, I will use very few minutes to join, on behalf of the Group, the message that this House has sent this evening. Those waiting for us are difficult days, we agree, and we are overcoming one of the worst challenges in the contemporary history of this country, but from this Assembly the message that Italy demands respect from the international community, without whether or not. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI Groups and Senator Lonardo]] We will emerge winners from this test, teach our boys and children the history of our civilization, our past, our defeats, but also our victories and we are sure that we will come out and overcome this challenge. Therefore, satire is fine and we accept it, we also accept freedom of information, but provided that information is not irrational or disrespectful of the image and prestige of our nation: this we cannot tolerate. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Minister Luigi Di Maio only two days ago he telephoned with State Secretary Mike Pompeo. We have no doubt that this passage, due to the foolish decision of a television network, should not constitute a beautiful casus, but let us be careful, because we must say clearly and roundly to the international observers that we will do everything and more to protect our exports and to defend our companies that are made in Italy. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] There are 600 million from this week: 350 million will be put through the ICE available to the made in Italy and 350 million more will strengthen the revolving fund for companies that export abroad. These are the measures we are putting on the ground and we cannot afford to see ourselves ridiculed or offended by a television service or anyone else. From this point of view the Movimento 5 Stars wants to say it clear and round: they will be difficult days, we will overcome this challenge, but we will not tolerate absolutely any gesture that can offend the image of Italian products. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u193	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u194	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u195	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I agree with what my fellow Members have said. I think it is right - I thank Senator Bagnai - to react together, as we have done from the position of the Government, in the face of the French affair. I support that we must keep our nerves firm, we will get out of this affair, we must demand respect for our country always, not only for exports, about everything. From this point of view, all other countries must know that the respect of Italy is protected by all of us: institutions, political forces, Italians. (Applications from the Mixed-LEU and PD Groups).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u196	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u197	Mr President, let us resume the general debate on a very important measure, which certainly affects the economy and finance of our country, at this time unfortunately very particular. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we all know, the reduction in the tax burden is a matter very dear to the country, but also very dear to my Parliamentary Group, which is Forza Italia, because for years we have been making the reduction of the tax burden a battle and so we always spend day by day on this issue. We believe that today also the reduction of taxes in the world of work is important in order to give oxygen to the families and investments of the enterprises, in a country that today - alas - sees a plastered tax, blocked, that erodes annually the incomes of our families and our enterprises. We therefore need today to influence and intervene on this sensitive and very important issue for us. In this House today we are therefore dealing with this issue, which concerns the reduction of the tax burden on employees. As we know, this is a measure that has its financial cover because, precisely in December of this year, resources were set aside for about three billion euros, our proposal was to place much more resources (at least nine billion euros) in financial maneuver, but unfortunately our proposals fell into the void, because this Government and this parliamentary majority did not accept them. As we know, this reform will enter into force from 1 July 2020 and it is a coincidence - and here I would like to quote the words of the same decree-law - in the more than one revision of income support instruments and with a view to a structural revision of the system of tax deductions. This is where we think the donkey falls, with the measure that we are debating today, because once again we make a measure that is not a structural reform of the tax system and the tax pressure, which we have always asked for, but a commercial measure that this Government does only to survive itself. We do not agree, today, with these kinds of measures which, precisely, act in the dark and in view of, which serve only to cushion a situation of the moment. We believe that our country today, in order to be relaunched, needs structural reforms and that is why the accounts do not return to us in general and on this measure in particular. (17.35) (Followed by Mr Damiani). By way of comparison, I would like to give a few examples of the measures dealt with by this measure: it is a measure which, in the past years, in 2015, had been so reproached especially by the Movimento 5 Stars, which was that of the 80 euros, but today it is no more than passing through certain income bands, from 80 to 100 euros. They are certainly more resources for our citizens, so from this point of view, we are in favour. However, as we said, in this case too, the resources are small because the 80 euros of the then Renzi Government committed about 9 billion euros, while on this reform we commit only 3 billion euros. There are, then, income bands that are not mentioned at all. I am referring above all to those below EUR 8,200 per year and those above EUR 40,000 per year. What does not convince us of this provision? We have always fought for this, and we believe that tax reform should be built around the family. We believe that this measure does not take into account the family quotient, which has always been our battle. [[Applause from Senator Ronzulli]] In fact, even this provision is unfair precisely because in a family where there can be two, three income recipients, everyone must take advantage of this tax bonus, while in a single-income family with dependent children, alas, the percetter will only be one. It is an unfair measure in our view from this point of view and not built around the family, where we have long been calling for the inclusion of the family quotient to be decisive. We have also done so on this measure, because during our examination in the Commission we have been the promoters of amendments which went in this direction and which, unfortunately, have again been rejected. This is the true absence of the tax model so conceived: the family quotient. The moment we are living is, unfortunately, also a special one; it is economical, even as far as the emergency that we are experiencing in this House today with the corovirus issue is concerned. The moment is particular, I said, and, unfortunately, at this moment, even according to the latest data Istat, the confidence in the consumption of Italians decreases. In conclusion, President, the resources - today few - that we ask for are more and more and that will go into the portfolios of our families, given the climate of great uncertainty in our country, will not, alas, be used for the increase of consumption. That is why we reiterate the need for a structural reform of the system in our country today in the field of taxation. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u198	Senator Steger is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u199	Mr President, in a country like Italy, where the tax burden is very high, every reduction in the wedge must always be welcomed. This is all the more true if it intervenes in favour of the workers, of the middle class, which is the category that has seen its purchasing power erode since the crisis. Having said that, I am sorry and it strikes me that two of our Group's amendments - which aimed to enrich the measure - have been rejected without any prior comparison. But it's not just that. The real point is that the measure, as it has been structured, presents several critical issues. First of all, there is the so-called effective marginal rate, the problem that arises from the sum of the normal rate and the existing bonus. This will be quite penalising for income between 29,000 and 35,000 euros, an audience of 3 million employees, for which, out of every 100 euros, 60 go to tax. The same problem arises for pensioners between EUR 10,000 and EUR 30,000, for whom the tax burden will be heavier than that of workers in the same income bracket. There is, then, the problem of the staircase that grows between those who are just above the threshold of 8,150 euros and the band of the so-called incapienti, and that of the disparities that are accentuated according to the sources of income, in particular between the self-employed and employees. The fact that the measure benefits families with more incomes - my colleague said - is a historical problem of the Irpef system which is further aggravated here. In the face of such problems, which the report of the Parliamentary Budget Office has reported with great punctuality, I can see, above all, two dangers. The first concerns the effectiveness of an instrument created to boost consumption, let us not forget: if that was the objective, we do not understand why other distribution criteria have not been adopted; for example, we could have opted for the ISEE family income instrument for the distribution of benefit; moreover, the resources allocated to those who have 40,000 euros of annual income will hardly give impetus to consumption, being a category, that of the middle classes, which suffers less from particular liquidity problems, even if it also needs aid, but not under this title. For this category it is much more likely that the benefit will fuel savings, while to boost consumption would certainly have helped more support for single-income households and pensioners. The second problem is that we risk being faced with a violation of the principle of horizontal equity, precisely because old problems already present in the Italian tax system are exacerbated. Minister Gualtieri responded to these objections by saying that it must be seen as the first stage of an overall tax reform process. I believe that this measure makes a radical reform of the tax really urgent, to simplify it and bring it back to the tracks of a more linear progressiveness of the taxes, also to avoid cosmetic operations by the taxpayers, given the high advantage they can have or lose if they cross even one centimeter certain perimeter of income. Finally, Mr President, I would like to reiterate my appreciation for the political will of the measure, which cannot be called into question, and it must be acknowledged to the Government. However, its construction is very critical, it risks intensifying a number of problems and not fully expressing its potential on the impulse to consumption, which will be there, but which is certainly not what could and should have been built. [[Applause from the Aut Group (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u200	She's registered to speak Senator Parente. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that a country like ours should go in the direction of reducing the burden and the tax wedge, because it has the highest impact of the tax wedge on labour (47.9%, if I am not mistaken, while the European average is 36.2%), and so the right direction is to lower it. However, I believe that the lowering of the tax wedge must go in the direction of increasing employment. I believe that precisely for the emergency coronavirus we need to revive the country and the competitiveness of companies - although it seems strange to say it at this time - especially if it can bring more employment. I believe that this is the direction of the road, I say it in an open way: more than the increase in consumption, I repeat that we must aim at that of employment, precisely at this difficult stage for our country. As we know, because someone has already told me before, the distribution of the tax wedge has a greater impact especially on the social security contributions that entrepreneurs pay. I believe that everyone, of any political side, has happened at least once in his life to hear from an entrepreneur, big or small, but above all the small ones, that, if in Italy the cost of labour was lower, they would also hire extra people. So this is the direction we have to take. Does this measure go in that direction? I believe that it does so insofar as it opens a real issue in Italy, which is the cost of labour, and that, as Senator Steger said, we must go in the direction of a lowering of taxes on labour. The measure chooses two directions in particular. The first, in accordance with Article 1, is that of the supplementary treatment of employee and assimilated income, thus widening the audience of the beneficiaries of the 80 euro bonus, giving even more. As my colleague, Senator Conzatti, said very well, the measure changes the measure technically and conceptually, in the sense that it is no longer a lowering of taxes, but an additional treatment. The second is the modification of the one-off deduction, for now only six months. As the technical report also says, this measure should be included in a more comprehensive tax review, for example to lower taxes on contractual increases. I could give other examples, but surely this measure must be included not only in the tax deduction reform, but in the overall tax review. I also think that we must use this difficult time of emergency to implement structural measures. It seems strange to say so at this particular time, but we must put more people to work and create more competitiveness for our businesses. So, in this difficult situation, we must act to ensure that the whole country is united and supportive. We also said this before with our colleagues in the opposition, whom we thank because, even when examining the measures on coronavirus, they have so far shown a positive attitude towards Parliament: we must use the emergency to solve the structural problems of the whole country. Let me say that we cannot ask for solidarity only in the emergency: unity and solidarity we must ask - we discussed it yesterday in the Commission - for a single social shock absorber, in all regions, for all kinds of work. Those who lose their jobs in a travel agency in Calabria should be treated in the same way, at this moment, as those who lose their jobs in a large company. Unity and solidarity mean unlocking construction sites and public works. Unity and solidarity mean hiring doctors and nurses: we must bring back the essential services in the country, starting with the health services. I say this, because from the hour that seems darker at this moment, we can all go out together, finding the light, promising the country concrete, precise and serious things, starting from the intervention on health, and putting together the emergency health with the social and economic one. I think that we will approve this measure, but that from now on all the resources of the country must be directed towards this issue, which I repeat is not only emerging. On the occasion of the emergency you can tackle the real issues of the country. We therefore need a kind of moratorium, on the country's economic resources, to direct them, for example, in the block of loans, as proposed by Italy Viva, implementing with unity and solidarity long-lasting and concrete measures. This is a great opportunity for our country to demonstrate its firmness and decision. The institutions, Parliament and the Government must be close to people. Tonight in the families there will be confusion, with respect to the doubt about the opening or closing of the schools tomorrow. We must not show ourselves as a fragile country, but as a strong country and we can only do so on the pretext of this emergency and coming out of the dark together. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u202	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u203	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we believe and assume that, whenever taxes are reduced, this can only be good news for everyone. For us every penny and every euro removed from taxes is a blessed euro. Having said that, however, we must make some criticism of the government's work on cutting the tax wedge (if you can say so). The criticisms are practically identical to those we have always done also around the measure that had introduced the bonus of 80 euros. There are a number of critical points for us. We have a very important point, which has not been resolved by this cut in the tax wedge: the problem of the so-called incapients. Today there are about 3.7 million Italians, employees, who, having incomes below 8,174 euros, can not take advantage of the bonus or deductions. So they were excluded from the 80 euro bonus and unfortunately - alas - they will also be excluded from cutting the cost of labor. But here there is a greater aggravating factor: there will continue to be cases of many workers who, in the tax return phase, will find that they have not reached that minimum income threshold necessary to be able to benefit from the supplementary treatment, perhaps because they have lost their jobs during the year, which, with the economic crisis that we are experiencing and with the worsening of this emergency of the coronavirus, we will give almost for sure. So what's gonna happen? They will be obliged to return what they received in the current year, as has already happened so far for the 80 euro bonus. Another critical point is that this bonus is aimed only at employees, who certainly, in this dramatic economic phase, are experiencing the same problems as all the workers' audience. Then we ask the Government why, always and constantly in every measure, it keeps forgetting about employee employment contracts, VAT matches, traders, professionals, self-employed people, even those who work with occasional contracts. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] I would like the government to listen to us on this, because I don't think you're leaving the palaces, but I think you're living, like all Italians, the emergency of the coronavirus. Those who are suffering enormously in all cities, regardless of the red zones, are our traders, are our workers with VAT numbers, are our professionals. And you will see, unfortunately, not because I want to be a Cassandra, those who will have to close. We do not understand why there are still A-series workers and B-series workers. I have a suspicion: every time you launch these measures you have your ideological imprinting, which does not make you think about VAT matches, autonomous and professional, which I remember are the productive thorn of our nation. But this, as has already happened on other occasions, always remains suspended, always for the next day, that tomorrow that with these Governments (both the previous one and that of today) - alas - we have not seen resolved. I would like to add that this bonus, going to each individual worker does not take into account another very important element, family income; therefore it penalizes single-income families compared to the households in which both members of the same family work. This mechanism will certainly lead to paradoxical cases. Let me give you an example: a single income family, which has a total income of 40,000 euros per year, will have no benefit from cutting the tax wedge, while a double income family, in which each of the two members receives a total income of 20,000 euros per year, will instead be entitled to a bonus of 2,400 euros per year, i.e. 1,200 euros to each worker of the same family. We have seen other problems; we still have the problem of the reduction of taxes that, for our vision, should take place in a simple and transparent way in the only possible way, the reduction of Irpef rates for all. Put yourself in the head that there is no other way to reduce taxation if it does not affect the Irpef for everyone. We should stop. We of Brothers of Italy certainly have a different view and we believe that the system of bonuses and deductions can have an electoral usefulness, may produce in the short term some more consensus, but certainly does not solve the issue of tax pressure, which still remains too high for everyone today and more than yesterday. We have the recipe; we have it and we will continue to have it. Our recipe is flat tax, i.e. reducing taxes to a single rate of 15%. That's why we say the government is incapable. An executive who doesn't have a vision, who only takes care of the cheap and who only talks about bonuses and deductions how can this country lead at such a difficult time that we are living? We were already a weak and fragile economy; today our economy is in a dramatic condition also for the emergency of the coronavirus. But you listen as a merchant; do not look to tomorrow and this will prevent the new generations from having a better future, because you give her a country that is really falling apart. [[Applause from the FdI Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u204	He's enlisted to speak Senator Missa. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u205	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is nothing ideological when a government with the budget law restores centrality and dignity to the great issue of work. They are the fundamental values of our Constitution; they are the values of reference of our Republic based on work and that wants to guarantee and consider work as a fundamental right that affects all citizens. There is nothing ideological, therefore, and one tends to confuse an ideology with the reference values. I say this with great frankness because we believe that we have restored dignity with the budget law and with the conversion of this decree-law to the question of work precisely because we fill a void and an absence; an absence that, unfortunately, in 2019 did not see any useful action in the budget law to build centrality to the dynamics of work in our country. It was all set between flat tax propaganda, citizenship income and pensions. But if a country does not return centrality to work, it cannot grow, it cannot aspire to transform anger and loneliness into hope and vision of its future. These are the basic principles from which we start, which go far beyond the economic size of the investment. Having succeeded, in such a difficult macroeconomic context, in bringing the issue of labour back to the centre; having done so in the face of a complex, difficult budget law, which had as its fundamental objective to avoid pushing the country into recession, through a significant use of resources to sterilize the increase in VAT; having managed to do so in the face of an increase in the wages of workers - an audience of more than 16 million people - and restoring progressiveness and equity, is one of the fundamental issues from which to start. It is certainly not a point of arrival, but it is an important point of departure, even more important within the complex economic crisis that, unfortunately, also the coronavirus epidemic forces us to face. It's not a bad word. This is a great opportunity to give back dignity to a country that can only start from work to generate, on young people and for young people, the hope of a better future. That is the point of the initiative we have taken with the measure in place. This is the sense of an important political and cultural initiative that necessarily leads Italy, with regard to another very important action that we have built over the last few months, not only to return centrality to work, but also to properly relocate to the European dimension. We all know that the cost of labour in our country was, in terms of revenue and taxation, one of the major issues to be addressed in order to generate competitiveness, future and growth. We had, that is, an unsustainable labour cost, right within the dynamics of the tax wedge. These dynamics lead us today to say that ours is a useful measure. It is a starting point for a broader and more necessary tax reform. We know that, we consider it a starting point, but we consider it a starting point that has a huge cultural value. The Democratic Party has built this majority, mainly and fundamentally, not only to secure public finances, but also to guarantee the younger generations a better future, starting from an idea of work and the reduction of tax pressure, the need, which we have, to face the dynamics of equity, because too many contradictions, which globalisation has led us to cross, have added injustice and inequality and push towards forms of loneliness and poverty. Therefore, together with policies to combat poverty we inevitably need to restore dignity and centrality to work. For us, this is an important initiative, starting point for a wider tax reform, because we know that the need we have today to support consumption goes through a first and emerging intervention, which is what we have built: EUR 3 billion in 2020, 5 from 2021, for an audience of 16 million workers. These, inevitably, with these resources will be able to contribute to the support of domestic consumption, which is another major critical issue that has been left to us as a legacy. Therefore, as far as we are concerned, it is an initiative fully integrated within the fundamental roots of our country, necessary to start a more complete tax reform, useful to correct a dichotomy that led Italy to be among the countries with the highest tax burden, within the European dimension, precisely on the side of labour costs. For these reasons, as far as we are concerned, this is a useful initiative for the future, to restore centrality, to guarantee young people an opportunity that brings within the country the theme of work as a great fundamental issue from which to start to generate growth and development. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u206	Senator Montani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u207	Mr President, I would like to say straight away that the fiscal wedge with the PD, M5S, LEU and Italy Viva number in the 2020 budget law is just a mirror for the lark. This government - let's say it immediately in a clear and clear way - has completely forgotten all those VAT matches that we have helped with the flat tax [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us start from this indisputable point to point out with force that the reduction of the fiscal wedge is in the first place in the classification of the challenges that the Conte- bis Government now announces of wanting to face, but only in words, and meanwhile the economy, which should be re-launched instead, is firm. And on this point we will return. In Italy, the tax wedge is still very high, as shown by the OECD's data published in the "Taxing Wages 2019" report. In fact, compared with an average value of the tax wedge in the 36 OECD countries of 36.1%, Italy occupies third place. A single worker without dependent children is subject to a tax wedge of 47.9 per cent, of which 16.7 per cent are personal income taxes and the remaining 31.2 per cent are social security contributions, one of which is paid by the worker (7.2 per cent) and the other by the employer (24 per cent). These are numbers that well frame the subject that we are dealing with, making us understand how to re-launch businesses and employment it is necessary and imperative that the lowering of the tax wedge becomes a priority of the Government. From words, however, we must move on to action, dear Government. Today we need strength and courage, but the government and the majority are not demonstrating strength or courage. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Lowering the cost of labour for businesses would encourage employment, while lower taxation for workers would increase their economic resources to spend or invest. For months now we have been talking about cutting the tax wedge, but in practice the complex issue of labour costs has remained substantially unchanged. The Italians must thank Conte and his friends for this. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Matteo Salvini has already expressed his complete disappointment for a measure that, as far as the League is concerned, will bring very few benefits to the Italians. There is a firm economy, Italy does not grow. Then we see the great revolution of Conte: it is 3 billion for 16 million Italians. Do two counts: let's talk about 46 euros each in a year, to stay wide. A lot of stuff, congratulations! Furthermore, let us not forget the 3 euros of increase we gave to pensioners: something shameful for which a civilized country, but above all a government, should apologize. I hope that we will vote soon, because the Italian economy really needs it. The Italians need work and not the talk of this Executive. Every tax cut is certainly useful, but this year the Italians will pay 7 billion euros of extra taxes; moreover, the measure excluded the so-called production categories. So the middle class, the one that keeps the country up, will not have a euro increase. I go back to the flat tax, to understand the beneficial effects that, thanks to this instrument, we would have produced on Italians, if last summer we had not renounced the Ministries for the obtuseness of the 5 Stars on many measures. The parallel between the cutting of the tax wedge that this Government is carrying forward and our flat tax is ruthless in favor of the latter. It is true that those who took the 80 euros of the Renzi bonus will increase to 100 and the audience will also expand and, therefore, there will also be people - not many for the truth - who will go from 0 to 100, and this is a positive thing, perhaps the only one of the measure under consideration. But what I want to highlight is that this will lead to a fairly limited increase in consumption, while flat tax has certainly greater benefits: two useful tools, one of which (flat tax) is very useful. On the other hand, the flat tax had worked, but the Giallorossi government has also rushed to tamper with it. To say it is not us of the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, but the figures that the Ministry of Economy has just published in the Periodic Observatory dedicated to VAT matches. Last year more than half a million new VAT matches were opened (+ 6.4 percent compared to 2018), half of which thanks to the flat rate with the reduced rate of 15 percent wanted by the Lega-Salvini Premier. It was the first real attempt to cut taxes and simplify the Italian tax system; a real miracle: mountains of paper and spared tasks, nothing accountant - a thing never seen - a sigh of relief for self-employed and small businesses; a simple and successful procedure. This is the reality of the facts. The success of the flat tax was such that the League had proposed its extension from 2020. The ceiling would go from 65,000 to 100,000 euros, taxed at 20%, but the simplification criteria would remain the same. It would have been the first liberal revolution ever made in Italy. But for PD to be autonomous in work is equivalent to being evaders, so now, unfortunately, the solf changes and suddenly 340,000 autonomous and small companies have returned to the hell of the ordinary regime, made even more unbearable by the electronic invoice. Shame! And above all, I tell my friends little triggers to be ashamed. They did not even try to defend the reform they voted with us just eight months ago. But now they're the PD handmaids. Shame! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] In short, it is clear - and I start with the conclusions - how we cannot be in favour of this government campaign and the 2020 budget law, which makes Italians believe that they lower the tax burden and instead produces new and incalculable damages to the family economies and the whole country. Italy - let me take this last step - is facing enormous economic difficulties, from industry to agriculture, from tourism to handicrafts, passing through families. What all Italians ask loudly is to pay less taxes and, above all, avoid trouble; in short, the possibility of working and earning without having the State as a voracious occult partner. This would be a normal request. All this is normal, wherever you go in Europe and the world, except in Italy: a country that in a few months of government you have turned into worse, to collect a few change. Under your political dress, dear majority senators, there is very little. The proposals must be about real life: you must not put your responsibilities on the citizens. This is about cutting red tape beyond political colors. We're on the Italian side. Our tax revolution project involves not miracles, but clear ideas. Wanting is power! We need a real horse care and unfortunately it is not yours. I close with a reflection: today we are talking about a decree that is February 5, and therefore only a month ago, but it is in fact overcome by events, because with the crisis linked to coronavirus it becomes almost embarrassing to see the difficulties that many companies and families are experiencing in Italy with the alms of State that you want to give to Italians. I think the sooner we get back to the vote, the better for everyone. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u208	She's registered to speak Senator Toffanin. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u209	Mr President, I would ask that the text of my speech be annexed to the Minutes of today's sitting. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u210	The Presidency shall authorise it accordingly.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u211	He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u212	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, someone like me from the Province of Cuneo could not help but talk about the tax wedge. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] You have financed this measure with three billion in the budget law, with the transfer of 4,191 billion from the Renzi bonus of 80 euros for the second semester, since the measure comes into force from 1 July, and 267 million from another chapter. The total is 7.5 billion, but 13.5 billion next year. If we add to the 7.5 billion the cost of 100 and the cost of citizenship income (seven-eight billion each), we reach about 22-23 billion (caramelle), which is equivalent to the VAT safeguard clause to be sterilized every year. It's a big mistake in the past few years. It is a debt to be covered and I try to tell the House that we continue to build, to deliberate, to make laws on debt. The Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget, in fact - as some Members have already pointed out - talked about the problem of the incapients, but also about the lack of coverage for next year on deductions between EUR 28,000 and EUR 35,000. It is a technical problem, but it amounts to 1.6 billion. We have then once again left out of the provision the pensioners who have worked a life, who have built the foundations of our progress and standard of living in which we all live well and have rewarded other categories that are on the couch. The reform of the Irpef is to be done - the Government said and it has been reiterated - but I do not know if it will be possible, with the current moonlights, to assume a decrease in rates as it is in things, because taxes are reduced if rates are reduced, but the difference must be financed by creating wealth or allowing wealth to be created through public investment. We have said it several times: the years have passed and investment does not start because part of this House does not want them. I say this as a right-winger or at least as a centre-righter: savings and the fight against privileges are always appropriate, they are always there but they must be implemented. Certainly some liquidity of the system is not bad, but it is surreptitious. Having to contain myself in time, I go a little off topic and finish. I believe that we are indeed faced with a huge historical emergency, bigger than we are. Then we will ask to go over 3% and beyond and they will allow us to do so because we have joined the ESM. But one who thinks with one's own head knows that the ESM is another historical mistake. We're gonna spout, we're gonna owe more, we're gonna pay more interest, and then somebody's gonna pay for it. 18.18 p.m. (Perosino followed). In my opinion - I had said at the inauguration of the Count Government that we were going to the Apocalypse - we will go towards the asset, because there is no other solution in the face of such a situation. The cat bit his tail. In conclusion, taking advantage of the status of pro-tempore senator, saying that in my opinion this tragedy is a serious signal, it is an emergency without God. I say this for Catholics and lay people. Religion has a containment effect, relieves suffering and gives hope; our civilization has built itself on this. Finally, I think it is worth considering a quarantine in Italy, otherwise we do not come out of it, given the news coming from minute to minute. Faced with this, on this measure Forza Italia will abstain. Maybe it would have been better to wait. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u213	She's enlisted to speak Senator Leo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u214	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Government had set itself priorities and set objectives, first of all to combat relative poverty. As a result of the measures implemented by the 5 Star Movement, 2.5 million of our absolute poor fellow citizens have had a sigh of relief for all those daily tasks to which they had to cope thanks to the income of citizenship. With the decree of dignity we have intervened on precarious workers and we have provided rules that guarantee a more stable and dignified employment. Now it is also right to take care of the backbone of our country system, the middle class. The middle class, that part of society that stands at the center of the poor and the rich, has become increasingly thinner over time, thus extending the distances between the two extremes and thus contributing to an increasingly strong social inequality. Our middle class, once the economic and productive engine of society, has weakened as a result of the severe recession. And it is precisely when the backbone of society enters into crisis that the fundamental contribution to the financing of the social state is missing. And so the erosion of the purchasing power of wages has caused a depletion of the entire economic and above all productive machine of the country, and this has caused a marked anxiety, feeling with which entrepreneurs and employees must live together. Reducing the tax wedge means reducing labour taxation or the weight of taxes that impact on the real life of citizens. It is not conceivable to provide rates for personal taxes or social security contributions among the highest in the European Union. Lowering the tax wedge brings more resources into the pockets of our fellow citizens, triggering a virtuous circle in the direction of a general well-being that also invests the younger generations. In the last decade, pieces of our best workforce have abandoned not only the South of the country but, albeit minimally, also the North, going to occupy places of prestige abroad, thus realizing their dreams and their lives in other countries. London - for example - is the third city for Italians transferred abroad. Our best resources - resources that we form and invest over 100 million euros per student - are leaving. And if we consider the expenditure that supports the Italian State to educate our girls and our boys, and to this we add the lack of income derived from their escape and the consequent non-taxation, we see how the figure is very substantial. I think it is necessary to stop and reflect. How many times have we read about large businesses in our country that have moved their homes to other countries because taxation in Italy is no longer bearable? Or how many times do we hear of companies that decide to invest in countries other than Italy for the same reason? And how many times do we read about so many girls and boys - often our children too - who leave with a one-way ticket to abroad, because in Italy they feel underpaid and therefore exploited? The 5 Star Movimento has contributed so far to giving very important answers to these problems; we do not need to be experts in economics to understand that our country is the one with the greatest potential for development, and we do not need to be experts in taxation and taxation to understand that our country is less attractive than other countries of the European Union in the key of foreign investment. Reducing the tax wedge will bring tangible benefits as we have less taxes on our workers and more liquidity and more consumption. This measure, therefore, wants to represent a concrete intervention in the sign of fairness, which will form the basis, or rather only the beginning, of a wider reform of the tax system. The measure will finally give a breath to 16 million workers and employees who, thanks to such a long-awaited reduction in labour costs, will receive a request for help that has remained too long and for a long time been unheard of. For our part, we will see increased not only the net in the pocket of our fellow citizens, but also and above all their confidence in us, having finally realized one of the many promises that have always been made and never kept by all but so far. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u215	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u216	Mr President, I will be brief, also to try to bring the measure to your approval in a short time. I would simply like to make a comment, since it has been mentioned several times in the debate (the opposition colleagues have spoken more about it than the others): flat tax. I agree that the tax burden should be reduced and we must also think - and we will certainly do so - of measures following VAT consignments. (The sitting was suspended at 18.26 p.m. and resumed at 18.26 p.m.) I myself have a VAT number and I understand the difficulty of those who work without what is the typical protection of employees. What I want to say, however, is that flat tax is not the solution and I am sorry that the friends of the League have married the subject of this measure - in my opinion - without even sharing it in full. All studies say, in fact, that flat tax only facilitates higher incomes [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Without looking for the studies of some associations that we all know, we have also recently held in the Commission the hearing of representatives of the National Council of Accountants, who have provided us with a very simple table showing that, with the application of flat tax - we have also approved it and I share it in other respects - the self-employed themselves pay less taxes on equal income, for the lower incomes, of self-employed workers applying flat tax. These data are given in the above table. Not only that: as far as average-low incomes are concerned, all taxpayers applying the Irpef pay less taxes than those applying the flat tax. The aim of this measure is therefore to respond to the need for simplification, and this is acceptable. But if we want to talk about reducing the tax burden, everyone tells us that the flat tax on average and low incomes does not reduce the tax burden, but rather increases. And the Irpef system of direct taxation is better and above all - as is desirable in the work that the Government and the majority will carry out - it is a redefinition of the Irpef in terms of greater linearity in the progressiveness of the tax. I do not, therefore, take any more time from colleagues. I wanted to make these remarks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u217	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u218	Mr President, I would also like to make a few quick comments. I would like to stress that what we are talking about today is a measure to reduce the tax burden on income taxes on those who today bear the greatest burden, which is precisely the employees who, together with pensioners, constitute 85% of the tax base of this tax. This is therefore a first step towards tax reform, with a view to rebalancing the levy and greater equity. It is not, therefore, a measure that has other aims and must not be judged as a welfare measure, an area for which there are other instruments on which we will still be intervening. It is not a measure of support for family responsibilities on which - as you know - the government and all the majority forces are committed to a major reform. It must be judged for what it is, i.e. an intervention to reduce the tax burden on the incomes of employees. I would also like to point out that it is wrong and presumptuous to try to create a disagreement or conflict between employees and self-employment because, in fact, we know that self-employment in our country already enjoys a facilitated tax regime, which has not been called into question, in similar income groups, by the measures of the Government. On the contrary, it has been confirmed and therefore, if anything, there has been a measure of rapprochement and rebalancing between the tax burden on one type of income from work and the other. I would also like to point out that it is wrong to accuse the Government of not paying attention to self-employment income and self-employed workers at this serious time of trouble in our country. In fact, if you read carefully the first measures taken by the Government regarding red areas, you will see that there is an intervention of the type Cassa Integrazione in favour of the self-employed. It is obvious that we are aware of the importance of this type of economic operator in our country. It is therefore a measure that will be the first step towards a reform on which the Government has committed itself; a reform of equity based on a system of clear and understandable progressiveness, that restores rationality and simplicity to this system and becomes understandable, because there is nothing worse than having to suffer a burden and not understand why you pay twice as much than another one that is in the same economic situation. The extension of intervention in favour of employees with incomes of up to EUR 40,000 is a clear indication of the direction in which we move: the tax reform that we have in mind, that is, will affect not only the low incomes, but also the average ones. Important signals therefore come from our first intervention. Another important signal is that it is not by chance that we commit 3 billion to this measure for 2020 and that we have budgeted for the same year of tax evasion recovery, because we believe that the first source of tax reform funding is the recovery of tax evasion. We want to recover tax evasion not in order to increase the tax burden, but in order to better distribute the burden and the choice of two 3 billion commitments is exactly what we have done in a plastic and obvious way. The third thing I want to say is this: in the budget laws we have made choices that are now particularly far-sighted in the present moment of great difficulty in our country. One of these was certainly to fund our national health system in a sustained way. With the budget law we have put 2 billion current and equivalent expenditures on equipment, as well as on health building; we have strengthened the possibility of increasing the employment of doctors and nurses and of stabilising precarious people; therefore we have strengthened our National Health System, which is the blessing we have at this time, our strong element in the face of the phenomenon of coronavirus. In the same way, in the budget law we have foreseen an intervention that also becomes of economic support to low and medium income population groups, which we implemented immediately, because the budget law was passed on 31 December and the decree-law is in force from the very beginning of February and therefore - as you can see - we were absolutely timely. Welcome to this injection of liquidity into the pockets of 16 million people in our country, at a time when we actually need it to support demand. These are far-sighted choices, therefore, that are being rewarded today. Last but not least, we cannot say that it will increase the tax burden by virtue of our budgetary law; we cannot but calculate, as a reduction in the tax burden, the 23 billion safeguard clauses, because they were not such, but they were VAT and excise tax increases already decided; having removed them means, therefore, reducing the tax burden. I would like to say that this is the only government that not only - as others have done - has neutralized the so-called safeguard clauses for the current year, namely 2020, but has also put the work ahead, removing by 2021 8 billion of those clauses - let's call them so - that we inherited from previous governments. I would therefore say that these are important signals to be highlighted. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u219	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with what has already been established in the Commission, in the course of the examination in the referent, declares that amendments 2.0.6, 2.0.7, 2.0.8, 2.0.9, 2.0.11, 3.4, 3.0.1 and 3.0.2 cannot be proposed in accordance with Rule 97 (1) of the Rules of Procedure because they are outside the scope of the decree-law in question. It also states that amendment 3.0.200 is not available under the same provision and that sub-amendment 1.19/100 is inadmissible because it is not related to amendment 1.19 approved by the Commission.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u220	Mr President, the opinion supports amendments 1.7 (text 2), 1.19 and 1.20. On the remaining amendments and on the G1.1 agenda, the opinion was opposed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u221	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u222	Let us move on to Amendment 1.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.1 tabled by Senator Perosino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by means of a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.6, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.6 tabled by Senator Nisini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.8 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.7 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.7 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.13 and 1.12. are therefore excluded. Amendment 1.19/100 is inadmissible. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.19, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendments 1.9 and 1.10 have been withdrawn. I call on Senator Montani and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on amendment 1.11. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.15 has been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 1,16, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.16, tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 1.20, tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,17, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,17, tabled by Senator Montani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 1,18, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1,18, tabled by Senator Montani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Damiani and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on the agenda G1.1. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agendas G1.2 and G1.3 have been withdrawn. Let us move on to amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator Damiani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas relating to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which I invite the authors to explain.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u223	Mr President, I rise to explain Amendments 2.0.1 and 2.0.2 on the subject of flat tax. I would like to avoid making the usual polemics, which could very well be done about the situation, but on this measure we clearly avoid doing so, also because in general we are going towards a reduction in taxes (although it is more a wage integration than a reduction). What I would like to stress is that it is understandable that when a new majority comes, it says that it has a different political approach. So it could be understandable - even if we do not share it - that from 65,000 to 100,000 euros were said not to continue. This is a political choice; we do not share it, but a legitimate majority can take it forward. Beyond the fact that, in the previous government which had made this choice, there were the same people who today decided to change it, we have, however, noted that this is a rather special situation and so we are also looking at this. However, in this case, a mistake has been made that it would be appropriate never to be made by governments that go on to follow each other in the course of republican history. In fact, changing and putting stakes on the flat tax up to 65,000 euros was a big mistake, because there are people there who had already made a programming in this direction and who have seen this rule completely upset. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] When we make the tax rules, we cannot enter the perspective that, whenever a new government is born, we go to modify the tax rules adopted by the previous one (whether you want to or not want to make a spite, this does not interest me), because you completely confuse the system. It is right to make different choices. You focus your attention on employees; it's a choice, okay, it's there. But do not go to touch what has been done good for the self-employed; this is the element that we want to highlight most. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Then the political battle to reach the 100,000 euro belt can certainly be done and carried on, but we all learn. It is a bit like the history of the electoral law, which is changed at the end of the legislature to prevent the opponents from winning (this continues to poison the wells for those who will come later). The same mechanism applies here: you keep changing the rules and people at home understand nothing. Then you want to keep saying that you want to make the rules for administrative and fiscal simplification, when every six months we go to change them; this is absurd and you don't have to do it. Therefore, while understanding the choices of those who govern at that time and those who are in opposition (who must clearly make his own), there is at least respect for some measures and some rules that have been made previously, without putting the system in crisis. You do not know how many VAT matches have been opened and have had this momentum, because they had the opportunity to pay less taxes. Allow me, Senator Fenu, it is not that those who bill 65,000 or 100,000 euros a year are rich! [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Let us be clear, otherwise we do not know how this country is made! Let's get back in touch with reality, let's go see the dealers and the artisans! But with 100,000 euros of turnover, how much does one earn of profit? That's enough of that. Flat tax favors the rich? But which rich ones? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] And then, in defending our amendment, which we know will certainly be rejected by the majority, we call on the whole of this House to show a sense of responsibility, since these days the crisis and difficulties are highlighting this necessity. I'm not talking about those responsible, I'm talking about a sense of responsibility, let's be clear. We learn, when we are in the government and we make laws, to stop twisting everything that those who ruled before did, so that we do not help the country, regardless of the ideas we have. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u224	The remaining amendments and agendas are set out. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the amendments and agendas under discussion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u225	Mr President, I am referring specifically to the extension of the flat tax to everyone. That is the flat-rate regime, which is another thing. I am in favour of Amendments 2.14 and 2.10 (text 2) and against all other amendments. I also voted against the G2.0,200 agenda and the additional amendments.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u226	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u227	Let us move on to Amendment 2.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.1, tabled by Senator Nisini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.2 tabled by Senator Perosino. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.3 tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2,200, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2,200, tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.4, tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested to do so, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2.5, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi, until the words'recognize the supplementary treatment'. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.6 are therefore not included. I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous vote of amendment 2.14 tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.13 has been withdrawn. I call on Senator Montani and other senators to vote by simultaneous ballot on Amendment 2.7. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.11, tabled by Senator Nisini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.9, tabled by Senator Nisini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.10 (text 2)/100, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous vote on amendment 2.10 (text 2), tabled by the Commission. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.8 has been withdrawn. We move on to amendment 2.12 on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 2.12 tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Agenda G2.1 has been withdrawn. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G2.0,200, presented by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of the first part of Amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators, until the words "law 30 December 2018, no. 145". (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.0.2 are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.3 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. As requested, I call for a simultaneous vote on the first part of Amendment 2.0.3, tabled by Senator Romeo and other senators, until the words "is deleted." (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). The remaining part and amendment 2.0.4. are therefore excluded. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.5, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.5, tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.0.6 to 2.0.9 are unacceptable. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.10, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.10, tabled by Senator Durnwalder and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.11 is not possible. Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.12, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.12, tabled by Senator Bagnai and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We move on to amendment 2.0.201 (text 2) on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, we shall proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u228	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u229	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u230	GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, this is a very important battle right now. This evening we are offering this amendment a very important assistance to the Government: we are asking for the reinstatement of the voucher system. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] . It is news from a few minutes ago that the schools will be closed for the next fifteen days and, of course, families will be in trouble. We are in the middle of a health and economic emergency. The system of tourism, the system of trade, the family system, every system at this time risks seeing its social and economic life, every territory... Mr. Undersecretary, please, however, to listen to me. FERRO (FIBP-UDC). Listen! GALLONE (FIBP-UDC). It is really time to welcome this assist, to keep the promise, to drop the flags of party and partisan, to work together for the good of a country that, at this moment, is experiencing a dramatic situation. Please accept this amendment, because it could really be a first drop in the sea of recovery. Families need it. I have now read an agency according to which Minister Gualtieri proposes to leave one of the two parents at home. But isn't it better to introduce the voucher system that will, among other things, work with the kids? [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We cannot leave at home one parent in two to be with children; much better the vouchers, otherwise we will simply feed the black system. Think of a commercial activity where, perhaps, salesmen or waiters are at home in quarantine or at a restaurant that for those three tables that you currently find cannot even make them work. Think of the tourism system, which needs it, in a seasonal way. So it is truly a heartfelt appeal to unity, to work together and to put a first drop for the recovery of this country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups and Senator Steger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u231	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.201 (text 2), tabled by Senator Bernini and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall now proceed to the examination of the amendments and agendas referred to Article 3 of the Decree-Law which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to give their views.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u232	Mr President, the opinion is against all the amendments. I propose that the G3.2 agenda be adopted as a recommendation. On the other hand, I would urge you to withdraw the G3200 agenda, otherwise the opinion will be against it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u233	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u234	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of Amendment 3.1, tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.2, tabled by Senator Ferrero and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 3.3, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 3.3 tabled by Senator Unterberger and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 3.4 is unacceptable. Agenda G3.1 has been withdrawn. Let us turn to agenda G3.2, on which the Government has said it is willing to accept it as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u235	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u236	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u237	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, I support the G3.2 agenda and I do not insist on the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u238	As the authors do not insist on the vote, the G3.2 agenda is accepted as a recommendation. We shall now proceed to the agenda for Mr G3,200.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u239	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u240	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u241	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, I shall withdraw it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u242	Amendments 3.0.1, 3.0.2 and 3.0.200 are unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u243	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u244	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u245	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, I am also speaking on this subject with a certain difficulty arising from the fact that we are experiencing a particular moment, in which the majority and the government are rightly and dutylessly calling for greater unity in the interests of the country. We of Brothers of Italy, who have always been the party of Italian patriots, certainly welcome this invitation in a positive way; however, in these days we have had to further note that on an economic issue on which we must give answers to the country, which was in crisis and which unfortunately will be even more so for the events we are experiencing, none of the amendments proposed by the oppositions have been taken into consideration by the majority. Mr Minister, I would not like to interrupt your kind dialogue with my fellow Secretary, but I would ask you to pay attention precisely to the spirit of responsibility which must unite us all at this moment. Therefore, beyond the political controversy, we would have really wished that some opposition proposals had been accepted and made protagonist in the decree-law on the tax wedge, which unfortunately sees us comment not only on the lack of coincidences between majority and opposition, but also unfortunately note yet another act of distrust towards self-employment. We repeat that there was a crisis and unfortunately it is getting worse. We are all concerned about economic activities, entrepreneurs, self-employed workers, word professionals, but then we continue to discriminate between categories of workers, i.e. between employed and self-employed. For Brothers of Italy the workers are all worthy of the utmost attention and respect, so the measures that we go to take in favour of our Italian workers should be, Mr President, Minister, truly equanimous and absolutely impartial. Instead, the self-employed category must have done something wrong to the majority, something negative to this Government. In fact, with the budget law passed in the last days of December you have in fact dismantled the few measures that Count 1 had done in favour of self-employment. You have eliminated - I remember - the flat-rate system for those who have revenues over 65,000 euros - those that perhaps according to some of you are rich - and you have made it practically unworkable for those who are below 60,000 euros. This is a first aspect. Then, if we want to look even further back, we have remembered the measure of EUR 80, which is also aimed exclusively at a single category of workers, certainly worthy, but as much as the other category of workers, that of the self-employed. In the tax wedge you are now proposing the same discriminatory line, that is, that which does not consider self-employment. Yet, during the hearings in the Senate, the professional and economic categories have clearly expressed to you the cry of pain of the Italian productive world, that of VAT matches, but they have also indicated to you, tables and numbers at hand, the fact that with equal gross income - ladies and gentlemen, please follow me - the disposable income of self-employed workers compared to employees is less than 30 to 15 percent. This means that two Italians, citizens of this Republic, who are employed and self-employed, will have a disposable income difference ranging from 30% to 15%, depending on the income bracket in question. This does not seem to me to be a fair criterion for our citizens. But it is not enough: it is even an irrational criterion, because if we go to discriminate in the negative that part of the country that produces work, that is if we do not go to use the tax lever for the self-employed and VAT matches, it means that we do not even want to help those Italian citizens who produce income and jobs. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] This is the juice of your measures. This is the juice, friends, of the measures of the majority, the government and your policy, which is discriminatory towards citizens and is economically irrational. Brothers of Italy, however, has always made proposals. Our proposals want to lead to the growth of the entire country and when we talk about flat tax I start by remembering the incremental flat tax, that proposal of Brothers of Italy that was practically zero cost and that would have helped and simplified so much self-employment and also allowed to bring out the submerged and the tax base and therefore to create additional revenue for the coffers of the State. Instead, it is pursued by means of a measure that - I would like to remind you - will allow wage integration (because now it is the tax wedge, a mere wage integration, as well as the income of citizenship) to families that may have 300,000-500,000 euros of income because they are not included in the calculation of the ISEE. Therefore, you have made a measure that is not part of the ISEE and, in fact, will be able to give benefits to wealthy families and instead will be able to penalize a family, perhaps with four children, that earns 41,000 euros and that therefore does not enter the tax wedge and that will be penalized compared to a family in which maybe only one of the two partners has a very high income and that consequently will take the benefit of wage integration. In this provision there is not even a logic inherent in the protection of the weakest classes. We really would have liked a more transparent and more correct confrontation, as I said at the beginning, between the parties present in this Parliament to improve these aspects and to give a real response to this country of ours that is suffering so much today. There is also the issue of the possible repayment of the amounts, a subject that has been partially mitigated in the Commission, the only measure that has seen the converging transversality of the political forces, a measure that has allowed at least to lengthen the possible time of repayment of the amounts. That was the path to pursue: the path of confrontation, a constructive road that would certainly give a benefit to the country. In conclusion, I am announcing our vote, which unfortunately cannot be a vote in favour at this time either. It will be a vote of abstention which could have been a vote in favour if you had only remembered those who produce income and produce work, i.e. the self-employed. Converging and serious measures would have been enough to give an answer to a country that today needs to grow together, it needs to face together the great economic difficulties that we are experiencing. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Perosino.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u246	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u247	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u248	Parent (IV-PSI). Mr President, this afternoon, in this House, we have been talking about urgent measures to reduce the tax burden on public and private employees, so we are talking about a fundamental part of our country, because we all know that taxation on employees has historically supported, through indirect burdens, our welfare and therefore in a country with high tax evasion and low employment. As I said in my earlier speech, I believe that we must discuss these fundamentals in depth. In addition, we must also make a serious and concrete argument, for example, about the difference between companies employing more workers and companies employing less to ensure that there is no real tax on employment, especially with technological development, and therefore to alter taxation for indirect burdens. I realize that it is a speech that speaks of fundamentals and that therefore we must face with due caution and with the availability of resources that we have for this country. I repeat, however, that the main theme is to put more people at work and work for the competitiveness of our country, especially at such a difficult time. Italy Viva will therefore vote in favour of this measure, taking all the technical limits, which will probably be discussed and corrected during the monitoring of this rule (some have already indicated to us, for example, the Parliamentary Bureau of the Budget). We will vote in favour, but we are appealing here in Parliament and to the Government to really discuss the fundamentals of this country, because the tax burden on employees has governed the welfare system in the country and will continue to hold, but if we do not increase the employed it will become a problem for the country system. We therefore vote in favour of this, with the wish and the request that a serious and concrete path be taken on these issues. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u249	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u250	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u251	DE PETRIS (Misto-LEU). Mr President, I believe that this decree-law, which we are going to vote with conviction, is certainly a very important first step towards a direction which must be very clear to all of us - we repeat - and which was certainly one of the elements in the budget law (this is the implementation of what is contained in that law) of the majority itself. The reason is very simple. I have heard a number of colleagues who have spoken and I put a rhetorical question to everyone: how can we fail to realize, given the reality of all these years, that the strongest, highest and most substantial tax burden, precisely in terms of the quantities that are transferred to the State, is with regard to employees and pensioners? That is the point, and it must be linked to the fact that we have a very serious problem - and this measure is beginning to go in this direction, it announces - that it is that of tax reform. We need to intervene on the various Irpef scales in order to restore what the Constitution requires of us, namely progressiveness to the tax burden. Here's the thing. The measure at our examination - I repeat - did what was possible. I would like to remind you that we have adopted a budget law which, as a priority, has had to deal with the sterilization of the increase in VAT, with a consequent limit in the resources themselves. So, of course, it was one of the issues that gave the mark to that budget law. So, what do we do? Finally, there is a rapid application of what is laid down in the budget law and above all, the fact that we must intervene on the various sections of the Irpef (and this will be one of the most important commitments of the majority) in order to restore progressivity to the system. The measure contains a very important measure at this time so dramatic and emergency: it causes resources to be put in the pockets of the workers; not of all certainly, but of those in income ranges up to 28,000 euros and from 28,000 to 40,000 euros, which have perhaps paid the highest costs in all these years of economic crisis. Therefore, an important operation is made - someone will say small - for those who have the greater advantage of 600 euros in this part of the year and then to regime of 1200 euros, with the various differentiations according to the income bands. I repeat again: do not think it is a small thing because if we look at the contractual renewals that, for example, have been there even in recent years, this is also much more than a contractual renewal. Similarly, compared with the previous legislation, i.e. the €80, the measure makes a leap forward because more than 15 million employees are favoured, i.e. 38% of Irpef taxpayers. As you can see, not a small or small cabotage operation, but very important, especially in a situation like this because it is a first sign of reversal of trend. In addition, the mechanism provided for in the Decree-Law is based on two operations: supplementary treatment of Article 1 and intervention of the deduction with Article 2. In particular, Article 2 makes an operation which seeks to minimise the problems created with the EUR 80 which concern the impact of marginal rates: they do not cancel out altogether but certainly a reduction operation is carried out. The measure, therefore, makes an operation of equity and progressivity very important because this is the sign that we want to give. It also intervenes with Article 3, which abolishes the famous bonus of 80 euros, which replaces as explained. There is also an operation to resolve the problems created in the past. The amendment adopted in the Commission, tabled by Mr D'Alfonso, which is in favour of workers and the payment of compensation, is also very important and not trivial because we know the problems that had arisen in the past. Is this an exhaustive intervention? No, I said from the outset that this is a commitment that we had undertaken to implement an important content that we had incorporated into the budget law, but it is certainly the announcement - not just a promise - of the path that must lead us absolutely to intervene on the reform of the Irpef. The other operation, aimed at using a bit of recovery - which we hope will always be better - of tax evasion, has the objective to return an element not only of redistribution, but also of justice especially on the fiscal side. It has been said that there is no intervention on even lower incomes and the unemployed. However, we have the other instrument in the most difficult situation, that of citizenship income. We have to look at everything as a whole. We certainly have the need for action before us, and the tax system is perhaps not the most appropriate instrument for intervening in poor work, but that too will be one of the objectives that we must set ourselves and on which we absolutely must concentrate. It is therefore not that this intervention exhausts everything with respect to the workers' audience. I am also thinking of all the issues concerning so-called pirate contracts, gray work, fake and involuntary part-time jobs. However, I believe that in view of the reform of the Irpef this is a very important step. For us it is essential to make the deduction provided for in Article 2 structural in order to prevent the problem of the irregularity of rates, with very high effective marginal rates, therefore to foresee even more redistributive interventions towards the poorest band, the so-called working poor, which are one of the problems of our country and not only. We must also take action against pensioners because the measure does not address the issue, which is a necessity for us. Someone thought that we wanted to counter this intervention with respect to VAT. We know perfectly well that on this issue, so many young people who use that instrument must take action to rebalance the situation, for example, against those who cannot use flat tax. In this case too there is therefore a need to intervene, without any opposition, but through an operation that is increasingly seeking to achieve a possibility of fiscal equity. For these reasons, in announcing the vote in favour of Free and Equal and other Senators of the Mixed Group, I firmly affirm that the measure in our examination is certainly a first step and it is certainly the right way to move forward, above all on tax reform, to return progressivity to what the Constitution reminds us and that unfortunately has not been much implemented in recent times. [[Applause from Senator De Bonis.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u252	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u253	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u254	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, we can qualify the measure for our examination as a realistic one, which is also the result of the reality of previous legislative and economic documents. It has not been conceived "on the moon" because since 9 July we have received the recommendation from the European Council, precisely with regard to Italy, to work in the direction of the liberation of resources related to income from work. And then we find it also written in the DEF Update Note and we also wrote it in our main accounting document, which is the balance sheet. It is therefore a coherent and realistic legislative initiative, generated by the reality of things and which also lies in a cultural reading of our story and our priorities. We have put EUR 3 billion in the field for this year, EUR 5 billion for the following year; the audience of the recipients is substantial. I also like to remember who with wisdom and capacity for knowledge has encouraged us over the years to work in this direction. Do you remember the thought of Sylos Labini, when he encouraged us to operate on the labour income front to stimulate consumption, which are one of the pillars for economic recovery to spin the economy wheel? The other pillar is private and public productive investment in infrastructure. What is the additional value of this operation, alongside the compression of labour costs in the sense of freeing resources for the consistency that we have indicated? It is the principle of tax reform which has been called for for too long and which we have activated with this choice. It is a principle of reform which must also restore the fairness of the tax system vis-à-vis natural persons. When we wrote the original reform related to natural persons as to the tax levy we had not taken the aim by hitting the audience of natural persons. With all these interventionisms over the years, today in fact we have found ourselves enjoying the fact of certainty. We have financial and fiscal certainty about individuals and that is why we have focused mainly on that reality of our demographics and economic democracy. Since then, however, we have also brought important innovations in data interoperability: electronic invoicing opens up the ability to know how Italian income and wealth are made up. We must have the determination, the strength and the awareness to strike what we have qualified as income, leaving free the income, from which we generate the capacity for wealth and consumption, which is one of the elements of drive and traction of the economy when it starts again. We must avoid ideological attitudes. What does this mean about tax matters? To try every time to say that what is being done is good, but it is insufficient and there is need for something else: I do not want to talk about anything else, but it is even worse; it is an attitude which, for example, in Italy - I have also mentioned in the Commission - worked at the time of the pre-unitary States. Every time there was the press of the normative deliberation, he tried to put everything in it. For the truth, it still existed around 1876, when we were talking about transport reform and the Florentine transport operators wanted to put some more in order not to make the reform. It was since 1876 that we then had problems with public accounting. We must then be timely and thematically orderly and consistent. We must be aligned with what we have said and the regulatory documents speak in this direction. Allow me, I believe that we must do and give rise to a tax reform which also takes into account self-employment, as our fellow Members from the right-wing and also from the League in particular claim, but let us take into account the value of this operation. The cards make us understand how interestingly a crowd of millions of people is constituted in relation to the income consistency. The extra 100 euros a month do you know what they make me say? They make me say that at last a reformism that gives, after too many years of a reformism that takes away. I don't want to embarrass Ivan Illich, but it's not true that every time the government and politics put in place reforms, this means removing and rationalizing (which is an annoying, misleading and masked term, but in fact means that it takes away). Let's start giving again and do it at the address of the audience of those who also the union asserts hold on to the job and with the job are poor. We should break this kind of condemnation, so there are those who work and remain poor and try to work on the fundamental needs front. Dear fellow Members of Parliament, why this minimalism dictated by ideological reading? Let's get this done and then we'll get on with it. It had to be recognised in this House that e-invoicing was a great insight. You know what happens now? Finally, we will also be able to see how rigorously and seriously we are dealing with the collection capacity. I am fixed on a figure, Mr War: EUR 950 billion, written in the accounting documents, will not all be true by writing seniority, will be half or half of the half, but must become the target of collection undertaken. [[Applause from the PD Group]] The €47 million staff, written in the 2020 budget, will allow recruitment to tax agencies and we will finally be equal to the workload and we will also be able to allow the state property to be valued and avoid that scandal of Chioggia, which has completed 100 birthdays. Isn't that consistency? We said this on 9 July, speaking in Europe, we wrote it in the DEF Update Note (NADEF) and we wrote it in the basic budget document that we would work in this direction, so there is consistency. On this front we do not need minimalism and filiform attitudes, but the recognition that we are faced with coherence of conduct. For this reason, on behalf of the Group, I declare the vote in favour, knowing that this is a valuable operation and that it is the beginning of a construction site and an activity, which will have to cover the whole of our system, so that Article 53 of the Constitutional Charter is not only read, but nourishes the conduct of the ruling classes, according to the criteria of proportionality and progressiveness and also with a given of truth: who has more, more must give. On this front, we will vote yes. [[Applause from the PD Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u255	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u256	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u257	Syringes (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, it would have been nice if we could have taken action to discuss a tax reform measure. Unfortunately, that is not the case. We have, moreover, shared it a little, even with colleagues in the majority: rather than a tax reform measure, we have already said that this is a measure of wage integration. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is not a tax reform measure. It is a measure that lacks courage and vision. Let's say that we are faced with a disease, since the unfortunately dramatic period we are living leads us back to examples of high image value, which can prompt us even a deeper reasoning. For this disease, which is called stagnation and which can become recession, there seems to be no cure. There is no vaccine capable of stimulating antibodies, which are set in motion to ensure that the immune system of the economy can react to this stagnation, to this economic recession, which is becoming a chronic disease. The disease is becoming chronic and we at every opportunity, when the symptoms of this disease appear, propose the symptomatic; that is, instead of having a vaccine or antibiotic, we propose aspirin, putting on the plate a medicine that makes the symptoms pass for a short period. But then these symptoms come back, because we did not treat the disease and we did not have courage, Mr Undersecretaries; we talked about it several times during the work of the Commission. Unfortunately, the scheme adopted is always the same. In the end, it is about giving 20 euros; most of the income recipients who are affected by this measure will take 20 euros more. So, to give 20 euros more to these employee income recipients, we have chosen the bonus or deduction tool, which brings with it twists that have already been highlighted in the past. In fact, when you enter the bonus, you are not doing a tax reform, but you are inevitably creating disparities. Let us think, for example, of the fact that the issue of family income has not been taken into account at all. There are two spouses working and earning 34,000 euros both, with an income of almost 70,000 euros for that family; both of these people receive the bonus. Then maybe there's a single income family, where dad or mom make 41,000 euros, but they don't get the bonus. Since it seems to me that your approach has always been to go in the direction of fairness in maintaining the principle of progressive social justice, this is where the social justice you so much talk about is not achieved. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Not only that. We also have another kind of distortion, which concerns those workers who, through the bonus system, may not have imposed, i.e. they are zero-tax. Through the bonus you will see these money received. But once and for all we must address the issue by turning the paradigm upside down; the tax system, i.e. the tax lever, cannot be used for social welfare purposes. Taxes and taxes must be lowered to those who pay them and pay too much, not to those who are not paying them, because otherwise what kind of tax intervention are we doing? This is another twist. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us lower taxes to those who are paying too much, because that is what the Italians who look at us expect and think that a measure is being discussed in Parliament to lower taxation; a pity that nothing is being given to those who pay a lot of taxes. The bonus unfortunately creates all these twists. Once again, therefore, we have used a system that does not serve to go in the courageous direction of a reform of the Irpef plant. I heard the rapporteur, Mr Fenu, and the PD representatives talk about flat tax; someone said it was propaganda, while someone else said that there are studies that say that flat tax creates iniquity. What flat tax are we talking about? It is funny that everyone is looking for a label to give to this flat tax, but I do not think anyone - not even Mr Fenu or Mr Missa, who called flat tax a propaganda - has ever read the 140 pages of this book, which is the result of the work we have done not with our colleagues at the bar, but with the technicians of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, to bring in dowry, to what was our Government, an important project of the tax reform system [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , shared at the highest levels, perfectly constitutional, which respects the criteria of progressiveness and respects all the things that we in this Parliament absolutely agree to keep as the cornerstone of any kind of tax reform. We delivered him in dowry and left him there. This could be discussed. The draft tax reform says not to use aspirin and to put an antibiotic on the table and, therefore, to reduce the tax on households at a single rate of 15% by maintaining the criteria of progressiveness through a single fixed deduction based on the new method of family income and surpassing that of individual income. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is a structural reform of the system; it is not something invented and propagandistic that helps the rich. No one believes this story anymore because it's not true. Then perhaps more courage and even more opportunities for confrontation were needed. I would not have gone back if there had been an opportunity to deepen, rather than ideological prejudice in wanting to close the doors immediately to what, according to some, is, in the political dialectic also of political utilitarianism, a flag of a part of Parliament. In the end, the citizens out there are not interested in anything, except that we at last, all together, have the courage to lower the tax and tax pressure that is not allowing them to see their future, their perspective and their desire for investment. What have we done with this provision? To make half a lot in the direction of the employee forward we took three steps back, penalising the self-employed and VAT matches, disassembling piece by piece that beginning of tax reform and flat tax that we had started together, just with the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars and that - I assure you - has brought refreshment, help and support to hundreds of thousands of self-employed workers that are the backbone and the economic structure on which the future of the country rests. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Undersecretary, we have already had the opportunity to discuss this. These 5 million people are not guaranteed anything: the year for them is twelve months and not thirteen; they have no sickness and no vacation; they have no guarantee whatsoever. Behind these who pull their sleeves up every day, there are 12 million employees to whom they ensure a salary. What kind of incentive and centrality of work do we talk about if we go down against those who give jobs to the employees we want to defend today? I say this to Mr Missa, who rightly spoke of bringing the centrality of work to Parliament. Unfortunately, the draft law under consideration is not bringing this centrality of work. I repeat, it's a symptomatic. Sure, better 20 euros than nothing; better something than nothing. We will be content, but in general we are not faced with anything that can satisfy us. Precisely because of this and not to close the door to those 20 euros, which however someone will want to put in his pocket, I announce the abstention vote on the measure by the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u258	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u259	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u260	SCIASCIA (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Undersecretary, the Decree-Law No 3 of 5 February 2020 on urgent measures to reduce the tax burden on employees, assigned at first reading to the 6th Senate Commission, transposes, as the rapporteur and his colleagues have already fully explained in the general debate, measures in favour of the public and private employees alone - and I stress alone - who, in practice, argue for an additional contribution or treatment and tax deduction. The contribution from July next and until December for 100 euros monthly. The bonus is recognized in favor of employees, both public and private, with income of employee or assimilated to it under article 50, paragraph 1, of the single text of the laws on the local authorities, net of the tax on the main house up to 28,000 euros annually, and of euro 1200 for the whole year 2021. In addition, a tax deduction of EUR 600 is granted for the second half of 2020 only for employees with income up to EUR 40,000; this deduction decreases with the increase in income and zeros with income above EUR 40,000. Supplementary treatment, or contribution, shall be carried out on the basis of the working days of the employees in the second half of 2020 and for the whole year 2021. Beyond the roboating title, reducing the tax burden on employees, it is a bonus and a deduction for the benefit of employee income only and also of contained amount. A first consideration: but why only employees and those assimilated to them? Why are pensions of the same amount excluded? At the hearing, we heard that this exclusion would be founded on the fact that employee earnings are subject to a contribution rate of about 9% of the taxable. Nothing more wrong, because the contribution rate applied to the employee will, at the time, give rise to a benefit, that pension. Waiting for the much-conclaimed revision of all deductions and deductions on income of any kind, why commit employers to recognize a bonus and tax deduction of complex application nature, since related, not only to the level of remuneration, but also, for the bonus, to working days? Is it not therefore conceivable that tax deductions and deductions by 2020 will be fully revised, as has been announced several times before? Moreover, no benefit, once again, in favour of self-employment, especially that carried out by individual enterprises and professionals. I would also point out that all the amendments tabled by us and the other objections to extending the benefit to self-employment have been rejected, both in the Commission and in this House. Why this discrimination? It stops the negative indications now proposed, Forza Italia, always attentive to the reduction of the tax levy for the incomes of any kind, and also in consideration that all the modifications proposed by it in every place have not been transposed, expresses abstention vote. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u261	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u262	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u263	BOTTICS (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the measure under consideration introduces a measure aimed at reducing the tax burden on income from employees or similar for gross income not exceeding EUR 40 000, as provided for in the last budget law and pending a comprehensive reform of the tax system that goes - I hope - to reduce tax rates, while at the same time simplifying the system, applying a single mechanism for income support measures and tax facilities and maintaining the criterion of progressiveness and proportionality. 19.45 (BOTTIC FOLLOWS). But let's see how it works in detail. From 1 July 2020, employees or assimilated workers belonging to the public or private sector with gross income of not more than 28,000 euros will receive supplementary treatment which will not help to form the taxable income of 600 euros for the current year and 1,200 euros for 2021; for the income bracket between 28,000 and 40,000 workers will receive an additional income parametric deduction and limited to the benefits rendered from 1 July 2020 to 31 December 2020. The beneficiaries will be over 16 million employees and similar workers. The criticisms heard in these days referred to not having foreseen interventions to safeguard the economic realities affected by the emergency health, but on these interventions the Government has already issued a new decree-law and another is in process. Another criticism was that we did not intervene in favour of businesses and entrepreneurs who create jobs and wealth. I would like to remind you that the flat tax has not been repealed, but in some way corrected. In fact, pensioners and employees with incomes above 30,000 euros cannot access flat tax and they must not have more than 20,000 euros of expenses for employees. I would also like to understand well what is meant when reference is made to entrepreneurs who create wealth: by chance employees with their work do not create it? Think about this concept. Several measures have been taken in recent years to encourage new recruitment. I would remind the House and colleagues that there was a structural rule introduced by Law No 407 of 1990, precisely from paragraph 9 of Article 8, which allowed the permanent recruitment of unemployed persons, benefiting from a 50% reduction in social security contributions. This rule worked well; unfortunately it was repealed by the Stability Act of 2015 (Law No 190 of 2014). Subsequent recruitment interventions have not always had the desired results; in fact, unemployment, after reaching a peak of 13% in 2014, stabilised at 11% only in 2018; Today, after the decree of dignity, it is finally stable and below the threshold of 10 percent. Together with the income of citizenship, a measure that reduced the Gini coefficient by 0.7 points, which measures inequalities on the distribution of income, this measure allows to give back some purchasing power and to give greater economic stability to the citizens, thus also leading to an increase in domestic consumption. Analyzing the results to date, we see that this is the right path: we have reduced inequalities and unemployment is stable. This measure allows us to take an extra step towards a fairer tax system. Announcement therefore the favorable vote of the Movimento 5 Stars [[Applause from the M5S and PD groups.]] (19.51 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u264	I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1, in the amended text, with the following title: "Conversion to law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 3 of 5 February 2020 on urgent measures to reduce the tax burden on employees." (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u265	I say that the Conference of Leaders is convened tomorrow, Thursday 5 March, at 10 a.m. to set the timetable for the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u266	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-03-04-LEG18-Senato-sed-198.ana.u267	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 10 March, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.52.
