ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 15:01. The Minutes shall be read. Mr PUGLIA, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting of 6 August. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u3	On 14 August 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: Mr President, I inform your Lordship that by decrees of today's President of the Republic, adopted on my proposal, subject to approval by the Council of Ministers, pursuant to Article 10 (3) of Law No 400 of 23 August 1988, of the respective delegations of functions conferred by the Ministers of the Interior, Economic Development, Infrastructure and Transport and Health, has been awarded the title of Deputy Minister to the Subsecretaries of State at the same Dicasteries sen. Vito Claudio CRIMI, on. Dr. Matthew MAURI, on. Dr. Mr Stefano BUFFAGNI, Giovanni Carlo CANCELLERI, and sen. prof. Pierpaolo SILERI. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte. On 14 August 2020, the President of the Council of Ministers sent the following letter: 'Mr President, I inform your Lordship that the President of the Republic, by his own decree today, adopted on my proposal, after consulting the Council of Ministers, appointed Dr. Giuseppe DE CHRISTOFARO, with the simultaneous cessation of the office of State Secretary for Education. With heartfelt cordiality, F.to Giuseppe Conte.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u4	The next item is: Communication, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 77 of the Constitution, of the submission of draft laws for the conversion of decree-laws. On 14 August 2020, the following draft laws were presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister of the Interior: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 103 of 14 August 2020 on operational, precautionary and security arrangements for the collection of votes in the elections and referendums of the year 2020" (1924); by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020 on urgent measures for the support and recovery of the economy" (1925).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u7	DE VECCHIS (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, on 5 August, the Lazio Region decided on the allocation of some funds for investments in health care, which we obviously consider insufficient given the cut of 43,000 beds by the center-left Councils. It is therefore a matter of insufficient intervention. In particular, we can define a true mockery of the one implemented towards the citizens of Fiumicino, who have been expected to open a hospital called community hospital, which is nothing more than a small clinic. We, in fact, have received this resolution in which we talk about 25 beds for short stays and interventions of low intensity, realized in the clinic of Via Coni Zugna, but a territory of 85,000 inhabitants needs more constructive and more substantial interventions. I would like to bring to the attention of everyone, especially the President of the Lazio Region and Minister Hope, the idea of the mayor of Ladispoli, Alessandro Grando, and the municipal councillors of Fiumicino D'Intino and Poggio, to create a structure on the coast of North Rome that includes all the neighboring municipalities; it is a serious intervention and not the usual propaganda of party or a President of Region that we consider absent, not present with respect to the current problems. Especially at a time like today, characterized by psychological and psychic terrorism against people, with this Covid that now seems to continue and never finish (the other day we read about this order), we believe that health structures must be serious and not mockery for citizens. Fiumicino, Ladispoli and Cerveteri deserve a real hospital, not some trivial electoral hoax and propaganda. So let's say no to community hospital and yes to a real hospital, a serious hospital, that can give real answers to citizens. No hoaxes!
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u10	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I am speaking to do one of the work that the Italians no longer want to do, in particular the majority Italians, that is to call on the Government to respect the commitments made with Parliament. I would remind you that Resolution No 1 (text 2), adopted at its meeting on 28 July 2020, after stating that there were no signs of overload of welfare services and recalling the need to respect proportionality in measures to combat the epidemic, invited the Government to define with primary rule any measures to limit fundamental freedoms and ensure the full involvement of Parliament in the implementation of the state of emergency. This was not simply a commitment that the Government made with Parliament, but was also the precise provision of Article 2 (1) of Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March 2020, which required the President of the Council of Ministers (or a Minister delegated by him) to report in advance the content of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. It can be argued that an order is not a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, but certainly an order, always pursuant to Decree-Law No 19, is an act which can be taken under conditions of particular urgency to supplement a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers which then has to intervene, as the same order of Minister Hope specifies. The conditions of particular urgency make the obligation to justify and document proportionality even more urgent. On the other hand, we have an order - that of 16 August 2020 - that, despite affecting fundamental freedoms such as that of movement, is not only by definition not a primary rule but even, following a misconception of the current Government, intervenes subverting the hierarchy of sources because it imposes a derogation to what is established in the primary norm, that is, the fact that the Regions can intervene on the measures of the Government in both an extensive and restrictive sense. Instead, for Hope you can only be stricter than Hope. Among other things, the order also recalls sanctions through the reference to Article 4 of Decree-Law No 19, but does not provide any factual element. For example, it does not provide the opinion of the Technical Scientific Committee (CTS), always required by Decree-Law No 19, to assess the proportionality of such a rigorous intervention. Therefore, more generally, the reason for extreme necessity and urgency is not explained. I have to say that the opinion of the CTS (which, let us remember, promised us 151,000 admitted to intensive care on 28 April 2020) we could also sincerely do without, because the motivations that guide certain "terrorist" strategies are quite clear. However, the law requires it and, therefore, we would like the Minister to come and report, as required by Decree-Law No 19. [[Applause]] , and in particular to give us data to assess the proportionality of the intervention which this majority has requested to be able to do. We therefore ask that you give us - if you have them - the numbers of cases due to the attendance of discos and those due to foreigners. These are numbers on which, on the sources of press, we have seen absolutely impressionistic evaluations. If he has them, the Minister must give them because he has made a commitment to do so with Parliament; if he does not have them, it would be better if he refrained, for the future, from these unscrupulous regulatory actions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u13	DI GIROLAMO (M5S). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I want to take the floor and bring back to the House the outrage, resentment and disappointment expressed by so many Italian citizens towards irreducible and irreverent attitudes put in place by a representative of the opposition whose name I will not name (but certainly those who listen to me will understand who I am referring to). Mr President, negationism is the worst evil these days. The growing trend of Covid's infection moves us to raise awareness among all citizens, especially young people, about strict compliance with the rules on social distance, or at least this is what logic suggests. And instead, there are those who, in perennial electoral campaign and waiting for full powers, not only express and propaganda negationism, but also practice it. It has been since 2 June that we are forced to undergo assemblies, in total contempt of the norms on social distance, for a singular whim due to the need to return to the electoral campaign (made of selfies, also these irreducible and irreverent). All citizens have been and continue to be very careful so that the virus does not override their lives. The lockdown served just that, but at some point someone decided to get tired of this social distance and came back to create assemblies on the street and put himself and others at risk of contagion. Using a false policy, the negationist one, which is very little politician and is a total prevarication over others, only this, is felt as a threat to everyone. The citizens who still believe in the institutions ask us loudly that everyone be subject to the same law. It is not possible that a common citizen if he does not respect the social gap is subject to fines while if he does so a representative of the policy is exempted from it. I would ask for attention on this subject, Mr President, because it is not my whim, but it is a matter of deviating that sense of inequality in the application of the law, inequality perceived by the citizen, which has been rigorous and which continues to be so, even today, in cooperation with the State. The law is the same for everyone. This is a dogma, it is a fundamental principle. Because, then, sanctions only suffer from ordinary citizens and not those politicians who love to immortalize themselves on social media by smelling caciotte, for example in a Pisan dairy. These are the behaviors that push to emulation, typical especially in young people: those who are more "ganzo" are able to break the rules and if he does it, I can do it too; that's what they say and that's what they then do. We are close to the reopening of schools and we are experiencing a particular phase in which receptive activities give their best to avoid the worst. We are all making great efforts and someone has the irreverent courage to cancel them completely. Mr President, we have two invisible enemies today: one is called Covid-19 and the other is called ignorance. [[Applause. Senator Bagnai's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u14	Senator Bagnai, we're in the process of late session surgery. The Presidency is here, it is listening and it does not find a single reason why you should speak. Please allow me to move on. [[Comments of Senator Bagnai]] Senator Bagnai, I would like to point out that you used much more problematic adjectives. I would ask you to sit down and allow this House to do its duty. [[Senator Bagnai's protests]] Believe me, there's no need to raise your voice. I spoke with her in the way I felt most appropriate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u17	FANTETTI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, after abolishing the Committee on Italian Affairs abroad and preventing Italians abroad from electing their own Comites representatives at the end of the day, after having forced them to pay the IMU on the houses they have in Italy as if they were second homes, after having imposed them to vote abroad, where there are more than 20 consulates that are unable to offer the services required because the officials have been infected (being at the official data of the MAE), in a few days we will arrive at a new record of violation of the rights of Italians abroad. This is a decrease in representation that we have repeatedly denounced here, with four senators representing six million Italians abroad. We have pointed out that there is no democracy in the world that has four elected senators as representatives in a college of six million people. We have exhausted all political avenues within these classrooms to report these violations. We have also made an attempt at the limit: the recourse to the Constitutional Court for conflict of attribution between the powers of the State (which I presented in January). This appeal was rejected a few days ago because of a lack of legitimacy, not because I, the senator attorney, but because I would not have suffered the detrimental effects of this reform. It's a bit like telling someone who points out that there's a lunatic passing through red and that you should intervene: Yes, but you're not dead yet, so you're not entitled to challenge this violation. I wonder in this country, when with constitutional law it is decided to enslave Italians abroad (I make a provocation, but unfortunately the reasoning row), that is, when a constitutional law clearly unconstitutional, to the detriment of citizens of series B as we Italians abroad, will be approved by Parliament and someone will ultimately address the Constitutional Court and will be told that it is not legitimate, as it has not yet been enslaved, at that moment the guarantees for Italian citizens abroad will finally be recognized [[Applause]] Or will we continue on this ignoble path, in which we are treated as non-B-series citizens, but as C-series or D-series citizens, without the constitutional prerogatives of this Parliament and other important constitutional bodies, first and foremost the Constitutional Court, having any effect? This is a complaint and I call, in the final analysis, on all the highest positions of the State to try to block in extremis this very serious violation of our political rights. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u18	Senator Fantetti, I remind you that this country has constitutional organs that I respect and that I pray that they will also be respected in Parliament.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u19	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u20	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u21	LOMUTI (M5S). Mr President, the news of these days, reported by the press, is that of the so-called INPS contributions. We would like to point out that these are those people holding VAT consignments who, while not living in a state of need or need, have requested and obtained the 600 euro bonus paid as a result of the emergency Covid-19 and provided by the Government to help holders of VAT consignments who are experiencing an economic difficulty determined by the coronavirus. The 5 Star Movement condemned these attitudes and I welcomed the invitation of political leader Vito Crimi to ask the INPS to publish and communicate to the political leader any requests for this help from us spokesperson, in case we do not respond in conditions of necessity. And I was very pleased to hear these days and learn from the press reports that Senator Salvini, secretary of the League, thundered against these smart guys, claiming that he would use the hard fist, starting from the prohibition of re-endidability of the representatives of the League who asked for and obtained this bonus without having the right. Now, serve this intervention to Senator Salvini as an instrument of information regarding what is happening these days and that is reporting the local press of Basilicata about some of its representatives. And I would advise him not to take for sure and indeed what I am saying, that I learn from the press, but to ascertain himself, calling for example the Legist mayor of the Municipality of Potenza and asking him for information, explanations and clarifications regarding two Councillors of the Legist Junta of the Municipality of Potenza, who seem to have asked and obtained the bonus of 600 euros, being holders of VAT number, but having a monthly allowance for their office of more than 2,500 euros. And I would advise him to also call the mayor of a small Municipality of Basilicata, the Municipality of Viggiano, to ask for more information about a ban published by the same mayor, which differs from the government bonus for the amount (not 600 euros but 3,000 euros), for the maximum ceiling (not 35,000 euros but 70,000 euros, that is for this mayor who receives 6,000 euros per month is poor and needs help) and also for the fund that comes from royalties. Viggiano is a municipality on which insist oil wells and the sadly known COVA of Viggiano, which is a center oils. According then to the newspaper articles that came out this morning (of which I quickly return an excerpt), it seems that they have taken advantage of this bonus the same mayor, the brothers, some family members and the brother-in-law; it seems that they have also taken advantage of this bonus members of the Junta (one of its councilor and its leader) and it seems that he signed this resolution the uncle of the mayor. According to the explanations and justifications the mayor gave, it seems that everything is legitimate and I want to believe it. But I would like to say to Senator Salvini, who will certainly apprehend what has been reported, that there is also an unwritten right, a law that simply refers to the ethics of correctness and behavior correctly, on the part of man before even the politician. If these are examples, I am sure that Salvini will keep faith in what is reported in the newspapers these days and will take the necessary steps. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u22	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-08-18-LEG18-Senato-sed-250.ana.u23	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 1 September, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 15.24 p.m.
