ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Carossino, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the M5S Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, a request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u4	The next item is the debate on motions for individual distrust 1-00230 by Senators Romeo, Ciriani, Bernini and other Senators, abbreviated pursuant to Rule 157 (3) of the Rules of Procedure and 1-00235 by Senator Bonino and other Senators, in respect of the Minister of Justice, Mr Bonafede. I call Senator Pepe to explain motion No 230.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u5	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, motion of no confidence No 235 towards Minister Bonafede comes to the conclusion of an overall failure which has characterized its management of the Dicastery; it has not been reached in a television broadcast, but has been known through a television broadcast, about which I would just like to address a thank you to a journalist, Massimo Giletti, who, with his professionalism and courage, has told many truths to the Italians. [[Applause.]] In fact, Minister, we present the motion of no confidence against you because you wrote the darkest page of the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u6	Colleagues, please, no gathering. Take your seats.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u7	PEPE (L-SP-PSd'Az). You have appointed the head of the DAP, a prerogative of yours that must be exercised towards people with a high institutional profile, with powers in prison matters and in anti-mafia matters. Unfortunately, however, you have appointed Dr. Basentini, who has no competence in prison matters or even less in anti-mafia matters, so, beyond the play of words, you must fully assume responsibility for this appointment and its consequences. [[Applause.]] Coming for a hint of that television show, there was talk, both from him and from Dr. Di Matteo, of two roles: the head of the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP) and that of the Director-General of Criminal Affairs. Two roles that are not comparable to each other and that, above all, with regard to the second - that of Director-General for Criminal Affairs - is not in any way attributable to what was Dr Falcone's, because today she virtually suppressed him, merging on June 19, 2019 the Directorate-General for Criminal Affairs with that of Civil Affairs, creating an anonymous Directorate for Home Affairs. We don't care now if in that conversation you lied about your intentions to Dr. Di Matteo, but you certainly lied, once again, to the Italians during your speech in that broadcast. [[Applause.]] We ask for your distrust, Minister, because you are the Minister who has not been able to predict and cope with the frightening riots that have occurred in Italian prisons, which have had a magnitude and a frightening intensity; for the numbers, since they involved about 6,000 prisoners, of which 14 died of overdose, about 40 injured agents, 72 escaped and for which it took 30 million euros only to carry out the first recovery interventions. In addition, the idea that these revolts were managed by the rule of organised crime is well known. Not by chance, many Italian prosecutors have opened files in which information has been gathered from the Central Investigation Unit (NIC) and the Mobile Operating Group (GOM). According to this reconstruction, the revolts were intended to fuel discussions on indults, amnesties and measures, which could lighten prisons even with regard to men of organized crime. You, Minister, in response, instead of strongly and clearly opposing these perverse ideas, have opened up to hypotheses of normative interventions aimed incredibly at accepting the requests of the rebels and, even more so, at accepting the principle, unproved and scientifically false, that there would be a causal link between detention in prison and contagion. We want your distrust, Minister, because you are the Minister for Cheerful Releases. [[Applause.]] On 17 March, the so-called Cura Italia enters into force, which, with article 123, allows, in order to combat the Coronavirus emergency, to serve the sentence of eighteen months of detention, even if residual of greater penalty, to the housekeepers. True, this arrangement did not include the mobsters, but it was also true that it included that causal link I mentioned earlier. Not to forget the circular of the DAP of 21 March 2020, with which the Directorates were asked to communicate with the judicial authority with diligence for any determinations of competence, the name of the restricted person who should be in the above-mentioned health conditions (or other assessments of similar importance by the health management). All providers and directors of penitentiary institutions have received an obligation from the Ministry of Justice to communicate to the judicial authorities the names of prisoners suffering from pathologies with the risk of complications, for possible determinations. Only after the resounding release from 41- bis of numerous mob bosses, the Department of the penitentiary administration tried to disprove that note in an unhappy way, wanting to make it believe that it was only a request for monitoring. This was not the case, however, because the DAP in fact wanted to discharge any responsibility on the judiciary. We want your distrust, Minister, because you have not been able to cope in prison institutions with the Coronavirus emergency, you have not implemented any measures and you have not undertaken any strategy to protect first of all prison police officers, prisoners, operators and all visitors. [[Applause.]] He has not been able to protect even criminal lawyers, who, due to the lack of uniform working methods for the filing of criminal acts in all Italian courts, have specifically exposed themselves to the risk of contagion. Moreover, stage 2 of the courts - that match on 11 May 2020 - has created so many risks and so many difficulties, and will continue to create them. I should like to conclude, Minister, by saying that we want your distrust simply because it has shown itself, in fact, to be inadequate to the role that you have been playing for two years now. [[Applause.]] Following the well-known events, Dr. Basentini resigned and you, Minister, showed a lack of knowledge of the activity and organization of the ministerial machine. I would like to give a few examples: he stated that he had come to know of interceptions from the NIC, when the content should be known only by those who did them materially and by the judicial authority that arranged them. Minister Bonafede, you in the Conte-bis Government have distinguished yourself by a number of measures at the limit of constitutionality and often not respecting Articles 27 and 111 of the Constitution, using the decree of urgency. Minister, the DAP has set up a real monster that has allowed, with its silence, the release of very dangerous mob bosses. Let me just mention one thing: the surveillance court in Sassari asked the DAP for a response not to Arsenio Lupin, the gallant man thief, but to Pasquale Zagaria, a very dangerous boss of the Casalesi, sentenced to twenty-one years of imprisonment, seven months and one day. The DAP did not give any answer and this silence allowed the release of the homes of Pasquale Zagaria. [[Applause.]] Minister, each of us will leave a memory of our earthly life to posterity, both in private life and in public life, as in this case, and you will go back to history as the Minister who wanted at all costs to arrest the evaders - even those who could not pay taxes because they were disgraced - and ended up freeing the mob bosses. [[Applause.]] It is a bad memory, Minister: he did exactly what Cafiero De Raho, the National Anti-Mafia Attorney, said not to do: woe to free the mobsters. If the mobs are freed, a signal of weakness is given by the state. [[Applause.]] If the mobsters are freed, the mobsters are strengthened on the territory. She did this. I must acknowledge, however, the great gesture he made in his management of the Dicastery, when he wore the uniform of the blue Basques. This was a gesture that we all appreciated; it is a pity that its management was not up to those women and those men who, with honour, daily represent the Italian State not only in prisons, but also outside prisons. I want to conclude with a word so dear to you: honesty. Honestly, do you remember that word? It still echoes in this House as in many squares: honesty. Honesty is not only of those who do not steal, because for us that is a precondition for access to public life and institutional tasks; honesty is also of those who maintain faith in the word given to the Italians, of those who keep the promises made to the Italians and daily struggle to realize them. Honesty belongs to those who maintain faith in the pact with the Italians, and you, Minister, not only did you not respect that pact, but you tore it up and completely trampled it on. [[Applause]] In these hours a subtle political debate has opened of crossed vetoes and crossed threats between the Democratic Party and Italy Viva. The distrust of Minister Bonafede means distrust of the Government. Colleagues, one more reason to vote for it: the Italians will be grateful. [[Applause.]] Therefore, President, we ask that the Senate, in accordance with Rule 94 of the Constitution and Rule 161 of the Senate Rules, express its distrust of Minister Bonafede and resign immediately. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u8	I call Senator Bonino to explain motion 235.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all I would like to thank all those who have signed this motion. Of course, for obvious regulatory reasons alone, I could not have presented it, but I am glad that the reasons why I proposed it were also shared by Members of other parties and political groups. I'm not very smart, say, in the Palace interviews. [[Brusio]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u10	Please, I hear too much, and I'd like to hear it.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u11	[[Applause]] Please, Senator Bonino. BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). I said I wasn't particularly smart in Palace contacts. I know, however, that I am not so Martian, that in the discussions and votes in which a minister's survival is at stake, considerations which do not have to do directly with the subject of the discussions and the decision are weighing and prevailing. And so it is today. In view of everything I have read in the newspapers, and I am also afraid of what we will hear in this House about the merits of the issues that we are proposing will not be mentioned. We will always talk about those who benefit from it. To those who will tell me that the Minister cannot be distrusted in order not to put the Government at risk, I just remind you that today we are discussing something else, that is, what policy for justice serves Italy. It is my deep conviction, and I would urge everyone to reflect on this, that if the continuity of the Government were to mean the continuity of the policy of justice, Minister Bonafede, which you have practised, Italy would have no benefit, even in the data of the recovery that we want to face. [[Applause]] It cannot be the only answer, ladies and gentlemen, that the government cannot be dropped. I'm asking a question of apples and you're answering oranges. But does that seem like an answer to you? Now, it is good, in my opinion, for everyone to face the debate without arrogance, without reluctance and I will try. The reason for our position is represented by the literally sidereal distance between what we think of justice and what you have shown to think. I try to give a voice to this thought shared by many of my colleagues. We believe that justice is an institution guaranteeing the rights of citizens, accused and condemned including, not a means of political struggle, social revolution, nor even a means of civil morality. We do not believe that the logic of the emergency and the exception to the principles of the rule of law can deserve the name of justice. We do not respect the idea that justice is simply the punitive claim of the State and that any means can be justified only in the service of this end. The hypocrisy and bad faith of those who confuse the demand for guarantees for all with the claim of impunity of the guilty, making them coincide with all suspects, and consider the suspicion the antechamber of truth, do not belong to us. [[Applause]] Now, Minister, the suspect has become you and has spread suspicion has been a magistrate to whom you had proposed assignments seems important in Via Arenula, in a clash that is all within the party to which you belong and of which from the outside we can catch allusions and messages in code anything but transparent. There are those who say things to you today, twisting your own words against you. Four years ago, you said that, if there is a suspect, even those who are clean have to resign. Do you remember that? No? Too bad. [[Applause]] Like all propagators of the culture of suspicion, he didn't imagine one day becoming a victim of it. We demand your resignation for exactly the opposite reason: not because you are suspected, but because we do not want a Minister of Justice who is the representative of the culture of suspicion. [[Applause]] Two days ago was the 32nd anniversary of Enzo Tortora's death. [[Applause]] He was a companion of extraordinary struggle in that battle for justice, which was not a wish, but a program of concrete reforms to make the judicial power consistent with the principles of law and the safeguarding of citizens' freedom. But there is not one of those reforms that you have not opposed, contradicted and overturned according to the canons of the most extremist criminal populism. I have chosen, in agreement with some signatories, to hold the motion to Enzo Tortora, but not for symbolic reasons - let alone rhetorical - but to contrast one idea of justice with another with clarity and precision. I will not repeat the points of the motion that other Members will highlight better than I do, but I can quote the prescription, the end of the trial never, the right to defence, the criminal process, the wide-ranging interceptions and prison sentences. If I had to express the point where our idea of justice and its most divergent is exactly in the idea that justice coincides with handcuffs, the penalty with jail and the force of law with what Leonardo Sciascia called the terrible. [[Applause]] And I don't want to be silent about the terrible conditions in prisons. There have been, here too, endless controversy over the release of all - apparently - the inmates. My colleague, as you well know, I would like to inform you that the 41- bis-free bosses are 3, of which two are sick and over 80 years old. [[Applause.]] I say this to be clear. I also tell you that in the list of 300-400 released prisoners, over 120 have never even had the first degree of trial and another 200 have never had final convictions. [[Applause.]] And if you are happy that a journalist shoots the list in prime time (name and surname, without even the date of birth), this is scary to me, because so many can be cases of homonymousness and so many people can end up in this judicial slaughter. [[Applause]] Yesterday in Italian prisons there were still 21,000 inmates awaiting trial, 40 percent of the total. Is that possible? This is not how you govern prisons, but you simply pay an ideological bribe to criminal populism, indeed to penitentiary populism. [[Applause]] And you know that, among others that remain, more than 17,000 have less than two years to serve and 8,000 only a year; so in a year they will still be out. I do not know, Minister, what will happen; we will soon find out. We know, however, that you are only a symptom of the illness of Italian justice and not a remedy; so you will not be the one to get rid of it. On the contrary, if it stays in via Arenula, it will help to make it chronic, spreading as prevailing feelings not trust, but fear of justice. In conclusion: where has the reform of the penal code ended? Tell me also where the promised reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary has ended, so much on the front page, and not for good reasons, these days? [[Applause]] All this is enough, for me, to say that I want justice that does not scare the citizens, but gives them confidence in the right process and proper administration. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u12	I declare the debate open. Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u13	Mr President, members of the Government, Mr Bonafede, there is no doubt that in the debate which has opened there is a decisive and clear disproportion between the motion of distrust directed at a Minister and the eventual (provoking) fall of the Government. If this criterion had been placed at the centre of the table in the last parliamentary term, the requests for the resignation of the individual Ministers made with a motion of distrust by the Movimento 5 Stars would have caused, if approved, the growth of such a number of Governments as the Italian Republic has not known in the last forty years. I continue to think, Minister, that this is not the time and therefore there is no need to look for alternative majorities. What would be good for Italy and is good in general, especially in the moments of extraordinary emergency that are lived (rarely, fortunately) in the history of the Nations, is a government of "sky" type, strongly Europeanist. However, this solution, a solution such as that which Italy knew fortunately at the end of the Second World War, is not made possible by the presence of a very strong radical right, which cannot be counted among those who love the European Union, even if, as is the case these days, they save you from falling into an abyss. We have not always shared the measures taken by the Government and have not always shared the method by which these have been taken; we will discuss this, among other things, this afternoon, when the Assembly will discuss the conversion of Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March 2020. It has always prevailed, Minister, the national interest over all other considerations, the silence over controversy, the confidence in dissent. However - I say this quite clearly - the case that is being brought to the Chamber today must be treated with perfect attention, even if the timing is not absolutely perfect, because we are discussing it at a particularly difficult time, in the middle of phase 2 of a pandemic and in the middle of the collapse of 9 and a half points of our GDP, with all the consequences that await us, above all - I imagine - at the beginning of next autumn. Nevertheless, this is the subject of the day and we must therefore address it as such, but I do not doubt that it would have been better to do so downstream, or upstream, of such a critical situation, so that it was not linked to the reasoning of the State and because - there is no doubt - facing the debate today does nothing but shelter the Minister from risk, precisely because it is reason - and I do not doubt that it is an absolutely correct option - of state reasoning. However, for those who speak to you, Minister, there are principles that are secularly indispensable, and today the day has not come to betray them. In concrete terms, I begin with the end, even if - I admit - it is absolutely not the most striking case, indeed, and I would like to stress that it is not. I am talking about the Bonafede-Di Matthew case, which is proof of how much the separation between good and evil is often nothing more than a fiction: a candidate, on your part, to the Ministry of Justice who rebels against his sponsor after having suffered - as he said - a second and clear impediment. We asked her to come to the House months ago to explain why a decision is taken first and then contradicts it. It was not done, and a mistake was made. However, nothing justifies the call of a magistrate, a member of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, to a television broadcast, with a poisonous tail, overturning with this an axiom to which, unfortunately, you too have often referred, with an inverted - and therefore improper - quote of John Falcone, and with an incomplete sentence. That's not right. The sentence was as follows: the suspect is not the antechamber of truth, it is the antechamber of khomeinism; this is the John Falcone thought. Unfortunately, the reckoning between justiceists often provokes the reaction that reminds me of the words of Pietro Nenni: there is always one purer in the end that risks to purge you. The truth is that in these two years - and this is the reason why the Minister does not have our confidence - the lack of timetable for the criminal trial after the commitments made; the cancellation of the prescription; the management of the Department of Prison Policies; the failure to reform the MSC - although announced - have created the conditions for the pillars of legal civilization to be eroded and the protection of citizens' rights to be harmed. That is the reason why I support the motion that has just been tabled. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u14	Mr President, Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we can say that a television broadcast was the presupposition, the ubi consist of, in the Hitchcockian cinematic language, the "MacGuffin" through which we thought and think of telling a story. It is the story that this Parliament will write today by distinguishing itself around two motions, which, however, have the same aim, which is evidently to demonstrate the inability - I do not say the inadequacy, because it would be an excessive expression from the moral point of view - objective by a minister who has made a grudge, of justiceism, of the misguided provision, of the elimination of constitutional principles of the right process - I think of the prescription and the "end of trial never" - a vision that practically brings us back to the Middle Ages of law, to a rite that we thought we had forgotten. I do not belong to those who believe that you should leave the office of Minister because of the insinuations of a magistrate, who does not know who to answer, because, in this short circuit of powers, a magistrate of the CPMP can make illations of any kind and no one raises the problem of the validity and the search for that truth that says him [[Applause]] As politicians respond in Parliament, so much so that you, Minister, are here today to respond to Parliament's demands. Professor Fiandaca has said these days that, if there is a reason why we must vote for the distrust of Minister Bonafede, it is certainly not because of what has been overshadowed in a television broadcast, in the so-called system of maximumism, or rather of a judiciary that seeks only media aspects. It is not because of this, but because of its inadequacy and the reforms it has made. The motion illustrated by Senator Bonino is rightly entitled to a great and painful story of the country, that of Enzo Tortora. [[Applause]] You, Minister, in a television show managed to say - and then it was correct - that in Italy no innocent person ends up in jail: this is denied by facts, by history. [[Applause]] , from what has happened and from the fact that 30% of the prisoners in our prisons, who are overcrowded and for which we are under constant and constant judgment from the European Union - I remind you of the Torreggiani case: perhaps it will dust up that problem - is still waiting for final judgment (and in our Constitution you are not guilty until the final judgment). Mr. Minister, can you explain to me how you can say that an innocent person in our country never ends up in jail? [[Applause]] This is denied by the facts, it is denied by history and it is denied by the Tortora affair, but we could cite a thousand other cases. Mr President, I see that the light on the microphone is flashing and so I am going to conclude, also to leave room for my group's colleagues. An important criminalist, in these days, reminded us of Beccaria's words that we cannot turn people into things. We would like that, in this democratic state and in our democracy, phrases and principles such as "Blow away the keys" or "He must rot in jail" will once and for all come out of our political vocabulary. [[Applause]] ; they are not acceptable to those who occupy institutional positions! Minister, you have ridden the tiger of political justiceism and resentment, in the acts you have performed and in what contains your idea of justice. Maybe the moment has come when that tiger might get some scratches. The previous speaker mentioned Pietro Nenni and he is right: when you compete with the purest, there is always someone purer than you. [[Applause. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u15	Before I give the floor to the next member to speak, I would say that I do not want to remind the House all the time that we cannot create assemblies. I am obliged to remember that we are not a good example for all citizens at this time. Only by respecting the health safety rules will the opening up of all productive activities, therefore the economic recovery, and I believe that it is not a small thing. Therefore, make sure that I don't have to make calls, because I often see gatherings and people talking close to me. I'm not calling you back, but we're not a good example. He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u16	Mr President, fellow senators, fellow senators, government representatives, Bertolt Brecht said: "Blessed are the people who do not need heroes." I do not know whether you, Minister Bonafede, are a hero or not, but you are certainly exactly the Minister of Justice that the Movimento 5 Stars dreamed of, that the country deserved and that this Government and this majority strongly support. [[Applause]] The mistrust to which some political forces are subject is, in reality, the attack on a new model of country, closer to the citizens, fairer, more solidarity, strong with the powerful and just with the last and the helpless. [[Applause]] To date, you have proved to be a Minister capable of facing problems left unresolved by your predecessors with courage, determination and resolve for decades; I am thinking, for example, of the problem of combating rampant corruption in the country. For years, the European institutions have urged Italy to take effective action to curb corruptive phenomena, which are now unsustainable for our economy, and to ensure that the perpetrators were put in a position not to harm, as the perpetuation of this serious crime, now present in every area of public administration and in the management of the public thing, was destroying the country: it has taken resources from the community, especially the weakest, it has exploded the public debt and has constituted a ball at the foot of the development of our economy and the investments of foreign economic operators. Europe and international fora were asking for this. Law No. 3 of 2019, so-called scrambles (and you who promoted it, Minister), received unanimous recognition in the international field, except of course from the corrupt and their friends. [[Applause. Comments.]] Since then, you, Minister, and the Movimento 5 Stars have become enemies to overthrow, to insult, to ridicule, to delegitimize. We have become enemies who do not allow us to steal from citizens; that is what we are. The Constitutional Court's ruling on the retroactive non-applicability of the alternative benefits to detention for this crime bears witness to the fact that the corrupted law is very effective and constitutes a concrete and imposing deterrent to those who wish to commit these crimes. The High Court, with an understandable change in legal orientation, has in essence made explicit what we all knew: before the entry into force of this law those who were guilty of the crime of corruption did so because they knew that, in all probability, they would get away with it and that the hypothesis of going to jail was less likely to take a walk on the moon. That was the truth. [[Applause]] You also spoke about the prescription, which is the other side of the corruption medal and constitutes the necessary completion, for criminal behavior. The Italians were fed up that thousands of trials would end up in thin air, that so many victims would not receive justice, that episodes, part of serious crimes, like the massacre of Viareggio, would remain unpunished. But his action did not stop at this: the reform for the simplification of the criminal trial, so that it will have a reasonable duration of four years in the three degrees of judgment and that it can give justice and answers to the citizens, bears its signature. If the League hadn't gotten in the way, the proxy law would have seen the light last year and not this year. [[Applause]] Unlike what your detractors claim, who accuse you of being a "handcuffer," you have also acted on the re-educational character of the sentence, signing about 70 protocols concerning public works for prisoners and their reintegration into society. He also addressed the long-standing problem of the shortage of prison police officers and posts in prisons. Since 2018, almost 4,000 prison police officers have been put in office and, at the same time, the available detention posts have increased, turning old military complexes into prison institutions. In these weeks they will open new pavilions in Parma, Lecce, Trani, Sulmona and Taranto. You have prepared a plan that will lead to the overall creation of 5,000 new detention posts, that is, just under 10% of the current employment of the same. You have put in place a whole series of rules that make it less convenient to criminalise and steal resources from citizens, and that is why you are being attacked with pretentious polemics by those in 2006, for example, who voted for the indult. [[Applause]] You are attacked by Forza Italia, by the same political force in which two MPs joined in recent days by the request for precautionary measures for crimes of corruption committed when they led the province of Naples. Do we want to talk about some of your predecessors? I would like to make a very quick point: do we want to talk about the former Minister Alfano, who signed Law No. 199 of 2010, that is precisely the one according to which some prisoners were placed at home? I shall end by asking you, Minister, to move forward and not to be intimidated: the attacks you have been suffering for months are medals that you can pin on your chest.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u17	Really finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u18	PELLEGRINI Marco (M5S). I'm done, Mr. President. Continue in your meritorious action. The 5 Star Movement and its citizens need its work and will continue to support it firmly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u19	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u20	Mr. President, I was and am with Nino Di Matteo without if and without but. By Matthew: "Bonafede changed his mind about my appointment to the DAP for the stop of someone." Since I'm with Nino Di Matteo without if and without but, I read Di Matteo's report. "I kept the phone off, I worked" - this is what Di Matteo says to the journalist of "La Repubblica" after Giletti's famous transmission "It's not the Arena" - and confirms the facts such as: Yes, the facts are those. My memory is precise and detailed. So let's retrace those facts: It was Monday, June 18th. I was in Palermo, at home, the next day I would be back in Rome, in my office at the National Anti-Mafia Prosecutor's Office. He rang the phone for the first time, with an unknown caller. I didn't answer. He played again. It was Bonafede. I'd never exchanged a word with him. There was only one meeting at the House during a conference on justice and then another at the M5S convention in Ivrea. I was also in Ivrea and I remember well how the Movement welcomed Nino Di Matteo. Well, Minister, if we are here today, it is because there is a fact that is exactly related to the proposal you made to Nino Di Matteo and that he continues to reiterate, that is, the reconstruction of Nino Di Matteo remains one and the same. Aristotle said: "Platone is my friend, but the truth is more so." I know that it is not easy to stand up and observe me, Minister, but to betray both friends and the truth takes us and you, in fact, betrayed a symbol, indeed, much more, because Nino Di Matteo was and is a symbol of the anti-Mafia struggle. Evidently, however, that symbol was not worthy of its consistency, since it is still unclear why that Nino Di Matteo to whom you offered a prestigious assignment as an alternative to another - DAP leader or, alternatively, the director-general of criminal affairs - chose the DAP box. What happened next, I don't know. She says she didn't get pressured. All right, I don't have a hard time believing that, but we still don't understand why Nino Di Matteo didn't go to the DAP in the end. The question is very simple: "Yes, yes; no, no"; it is almost evangelical for some traits, it is binary. There is no need for nuances and, indeed, it is precisely in the nuances that the devil is involved and I absolutely do not want to think about the temptations of the devil. Since, however, the fact in this case is exclusively political, you, besides being Minister of Justice, are also Head of Delegation of the Movement to the Government and I have not yet understood how the Minister of Justice, who is also Head of Delegation of the 5 Star Movement to the Government, can bear the reconfirmation of Mr Descalzi at the head of ENI, which is accused for what, according to the Milan Public Prosecutor, is the largest international bribe ever paid by ENI. When only he was investigated, from those benches you would come here to mess up, but they were other times. Maybe he was just being investigated? Know that there is a substantial difference between being investigated and accused. You asked for it not to be confirmed to drive ENI when he was investigated and today, who is accused, I wonder how you still support Descalzi driving ENI. You, who are Minister of Justice, besides being the Head of Delegation of the 5 Star Movement, what sense of justice do you have when you are accused? Then there would also be another defendant - which I quote - who is called Profumo, first leading Monte Paschi di Siena, now involved in the MPS trial, and who was confirmed to lead Leonardo-Finmeccanica. Evidently here too there are chairs, games and seats on board to be divided and I am glad that we also finally have "Captain America" that can sit on Leonardo's board of directors because finally we also have a piece of America in the middle of a volume... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I'm glad we have a little bit of America, represented only by a name in a sea of China that is invading us. Minister, I certainly will not confirm your confidence and I do as the good Aristotle said: "My friend is Plato, but the more friend the truth is."
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u21	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Senate, first of all because of my personal sympathy with you, I would like to express my closeness to Mr Bonafede, both personally and humanly, at a time which is still difficult to deal with peacefully. Today, however, we are not here to talk about this; but to evaluate a problem of a clearly political nature at such a dramatic time that the country is living. It is a well-known fact that, when the new Government was installed, we repeatedly called for discontinuity with the yellow-green government, especially on the issues of justice. It is also known that in the course of previous governmental experience we have been in complete disagreement and openly in disagreement with the measures adopted by majority voting without any sensitivity to the prudent suggestions that came from the opposition. These measures manifested a vision on the issues of justice that was and is still diametrically opposed to ours, always based on guaranteeing, on total respect for the constitutional principles of the right process, on the protection of the rights of individuals, even those who have wronged the path of life and, perhaps, have been condemned by a judge, whose discretion and impartiality (main and fundamental prerogatives belonging to that category) we have always defended and protected. These principles were repeatedly called into question and established during the yellow-green government. There was a progressive but constant attack on the fundamental principles of our judicial and penitentiary system, which were a model to imitate in the legal systems of other countries. Think of the principle of not guilty, the attack on guaranteeing, the right of defence, the attempt to introduce a police state that supplanted the rule of law, also implying the idea that everyone could take justice of himself: a purely punitive will, which left no room for the possibility of promoting the re-education and reintegration of the deed according to the constitutional dictation. Think of provisions concerning prescription, interception, self-defense, so-called scrambled law, just to name a few, all far from our idea of just justice. All this, and much more than the little time available does not allow us to deal, clearly revealed a different way and idea of conceiving justice. I expected that, once the new Government was installed, there would be a change from the previous one, because when we are in coalition we are confronted and we find the synthesis on their respective positions, giving up the publicity measures and populist positions that had led to the approval of measures that undermined the articulation of our judicial system, favoring the media's skirts, the trials made on TV and on the media's organs, sometimes suffered by subjects revealed then innocent. In short, a continuous, very difficult meeting-discontro on important and complex issues, culminated with the affair related to the management of the prisons, for which we had repeatedly requested the removal of the head of the DAP, who had proved unfit to carry out that delicate task. On that occasion too, we were unheard of, generating the notes, very serious consequences and the epilogue that - I am sure - you did not expect either. All these issues were well known, because we had often represented them. However, that discontinuity that we had hoped for and invoked on several occasions was not there, except in a very mild and not at all incisive manner. We have always expressed great responsibility, making proposals always directed not to the search for visibility, but only to the pursuit of the greater interest of the country. So we did also in this circumstance. Despite this is before everyone's eyes, in these days we have heard denigratory comments from people, even well-titled, who claim the unity of the coalition, but then they are the first to think that they are the only ones to have the dignity that instead competes and must be recognized to all the parts of a majority, in which all are indispensable, as today is widely demonstrated; comments, statements, warnings sometimes led to real threats by people evidently aware of their own limits, which for a long time have tried unnecessarily to chase those who always and constantly manifest themselves collaborative and proactive. However, it is clear that the sense of responsibility, Minister, is not unlimited and must never be taken for granted, especially if it does not emerge the recognition of the equal dignity of which I have already spoken and if there are no clear signs of discontinuity and collaborative will. To be honest, in this last period there have been several signs of openness on other very important issues, which have certainly reinvigorated this majority, but no one can believe that there are political forces to assign the role of crutch. I believe, Minister, that the time has come to demonstrate the sense of responsibility that the high office she holds imposes on them and I am sure that she will be able to do what is necessary to give such a demonstration for the good of the coalition, but above all for the greater good of the country, that we have always pursued and protected in spite of those who claim that we are chasing places below - government, government or similar, that objectively we are never interested in it and that we have largely demonstrated this too over these years. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u23	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u24	Mr President, even this morning, the newspapers are psyched to look for a barter between Renzi's party and the government in order not to distrust the Minister: they are talking about the prescription, the reopening of the yards, a Minister's post for Mr Boschi, a "pick-up" or even a little overt spot; a little overt spot in exchange for Italian justice. A shame in shame! We believe that nothing can be barter goods when it comes to justice, when it comes to the rule of law, when it comes to the freedom of Italians; when it comes to the security of Italians, nothing can be barter goods. Yet, Minister, the barter seems to be the element that distinguishes his Dicastery, his mandate; the barter or in any case the subjection to whom from the prison let her know that Di Matteo himself could not be appointed for that position: they let her know with the so-called pinches, that is the interceptions that are used in those cases, that for them it would be the end. You knew, you admitted it yourself, and the anti-Mafia prosecutor also remembers it in his testimony in the newspapers. She knew and adapted herself; she traded her tranquillity with the no to Di Matteo, to whom she herself had thought. That is why, Minister, we hope that you will resign as an act of your conscience rather than as an act of Parliament. There is, however, a second and more serious commodity, the one made with prisoners in prisons. Anyone who had known about that world had immediately realized that the riots were organized, the result of a strategy; even the newspapers were talking about a criminal strategy. Yet, instead of opposing the barter (end of the emergency in prisons with the release of prisoners), she did as Pontius Pilate: she suffered the barter and 500 dangerous criminals, in part also mobsters, were released in a few hours. When Senator Alberto Balboni denounced him in this Chamber, the Movimento 5 Stars rose, because he said it was a fake news; then with Decree-Law No 29 of 2020, a buffer measure, he admitted that it was all truth that had to be remedied. Unfortunately, the 5 Stars are used to fake news and unfortunately barter has also happened elsewhere. In fact, the resignation of the director of DAP Basentini has arrived; certainly due resignation, which appeared similar to others. Just the 5 Stars in this House remembered Minister Alfano. I also do this and remember that the resignation of his Head of Cabinet, when a Kazakh citizen was handed over to that regime, which was used to cover the political responsibilities of the then Minister. I also recall the words in this Chamber of Senator Giarrusso, who evoked the barter and the concerted resignation, spoke of a great lie invoking the resignation of Alfano. The 5 Star Movement today changes totally, because it must defend the posts to the Government, whose delegation is led by Minister Bonafede. So it happens that the 5 Stars and even the Democratic Party say that if Minister Bonafede is distrusted, he goes to the vote. But what, the vote wasn't supposed to be a phoenix Arab? The vote while the country is in emergency? You have said for months and you also say this in these days that you cannot vote because the country is in emergency, but you must vote if Minister Bonafede falls? Well, we must vote and we hope that what this House cannot do in that case can be done by the Italian citizens, determining by their vote the resignation not only of his own, but of the Italian Government and of a large part of the parliamentarians who defend it with the sword because they defend themselves. Well, here the so-called scrubbed-out law has been evoked: it has been said that you cannot resign because you made that law. Just the other night, the TV show "Report" revealed the deception of that law, which is a resounding fake news. That legislation initially called into question all those who had made politics in the last ten years (800,000 citizens, except the 5 Stars) and all associations (even Caritas), except the Associate House, which is not even involved by that law. Then you changed it with the "favor of darkness" when the Democratic Party entered the Government, with Decree-Law No. 34 of 2019, the so-called growth decree, to exclude from its application the foundations of the Democratic Party and allow it to escape that law; that too was a barter for the new Government. Well, we can say that because, according to "Report" we are one of the few foundations that fully respect that law, because for us the law, whoever has made it, is always a law to be respected: you can then change, but first of all you have to respect (what they have not done all the other foundations, including those that refer to the representatives of the Government). The so-called scrubber law is a fake news, it's a social law. It is an unenforceable and in fact unenforceable law! That is why you should resign: you have deceived the country and the citizens of the Movimento 5 Stars. I would add that you should resign for the last and most serious episode: the resignation of your chief of staff. Ladies and gentlemen, those who are wounded by the sword perish by the sword. A system of interceptions that you and your MoVimento have erected as a system of interceptions, reveals that it is not you who commands in your Dicastery; it brings out how others decided names and assignments, even more delicate; it shows that even the nominations of magistrates in apical and decisive places in your Dicastery were decided by others. In this case, too, he resigned his chief of staff and had no conscience to resign her. For this reason I expected that from their benches the colleagues of the Movimento 5 Stars, loudly, as they did so many times when they were in opposition, said "Resignation, resignation, resignation" as they did with Alfano. No, today they say you have to resist, clingy. You must resist because otherwise the government falls and you go to the vote, that is, decide the Italians on his resignation. We say exactly the opposite, precisely because you have transformed the Ministry of Justice, the justice on which states are based, in the Ministry of Barter and Mercimony, often secret and unconfessible, with the mafia criminals who tell you not to name Di Matteo, with the criminals who raise the prisons to be released, as well as with the magistrates who influence your decisions. Well, of the two at one with respect to what is also emerging today in the newspapers after the fall of darkness: or you have once again accepted, with the favor of darkness, to change your judicial policy, accepting the demands of the group of Matteo Renzi not to be dismissed from the vote of the Assembly - and in this case you must say in this House how the policy on the justice of the Government changes - or - and I say this to colleagues of the 5 Star Movement - about you has been realized, we could say once again with the favor of the darkness, a barter, a commodity on Italian justice. We are talking about RAI, nominations, new Undersecretaries, investment in infrastructure; what do these issues have to do with justice that must be the same for all and really administered with a high sense of the state? I believe that there is nothing left, for his conscience even before the political conditions of the party he represents in the government, but the resignation. Dear Minister, I'll finish. Justice is not bartered: precisely the Cross, Christ, our religion, that is, our civilization, which is born on a barter, on what Pontius Pilate... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] : on that barter. Not by chance, our civilization is born on the condemnation of that barter and on its condemnation can be born again a government that is finally an expression of the Italian people. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Giarrusso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course you, Mr Bonafede, are a decent person, and no one in this House can deny that. However, we are here today to examine your work as Minister, all your work. Let's start, from the beginning, from what he did as soon as he arrived at the Ministry of Justice. He did what in politics is called treason: the betrayal of 11 million citizens who had sent us to Parliament to change things, to give a strong signal, to fight the mob. That signal was impersonated by a symbol, by a person (of Matthew) who had been flagged in the electoral campaign as a recipient of important assignments. Matthew meant a lot for the fight against the Mafia, but above all for the ability that, for the first time, this State had demonstrated to trial itself in a courtroom and to arrive at convictions in the negotiation process. Well, what happened? The Ministry was handed over to a group of friends of Palamara. This is what emerges, and Palamara is not just any one. Palamara is the one who led by the CSM the attack on investigations Why Not and Poseidon by De Magistris. He's not just anyone. But let's move on. Minister, you are a good person, but you have interfered with Parliament's prerogatives in a very serious way, in my opinion, with the next act. We were approving the anti-Mafia Commission's founding law - you will remember - and I had learned in my mind that any subject brought to the attention of the anti-Mafia Commission could bring to court any one of the Commissioners for the acts carried out within it, for a ruling - one in fifty years of the Commission's existence, a spurious sentence - according to which the anti-Mafia Commissioners did not have the same healings as the Members of the Parliament's Commissions, and therefore responded to it, before the courts. It is there, in fact, that I and President Bindi were taken from the Great East of Italy, to answer for our work in the Anti-Mafia Commission. I tabled a very simple amendment - do you remember that, Minister? - which is called an authentic interpretation, I would remind you: the members of the parliamentary committees of inquiry are subject to Article 68 of the Constitution as is the case with the other Commissioners. A rule that didn't even have to be written: you made me withdraw it, Minister. Minister, you are a good person, we recognize you, and yet, after a few months, you have had no restraint in putting your signature on a decree that exposes a witness of justice among the most important of our history, your children and your husband, to the retaliations of the mafia by discovering names, place of birth and place of residence after thirty years of cover. There's your signature on that decree, Minister. It's your signature. But you're a decent person, you said in front of me that you were sorry about this signature, that you would do anything to withdraw it. At this moment, that witness of justice, thanks to her signature, cannot even go to work for a serious illness, and she has done nothing - has she, Mr Crimes? - to remove this decree. But you, Minister, are a good person, of course. I shall conclude, Mr President. A few weeks ago, we had... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] I wasn't even five minutes away and you took my word off. I've got the stopwatch here. [[Comments.]] Fuck you, go! (Returning to the left side of the hemicycle). PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I don't understand why you're protesting. GIARRUSSO (Mixed). Because he took my word for it. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The microphone turns off automatically and I gave her the floor. Go ahead and finish. GIARRUSSO (Mixed). Thank you, President. It is before everyone's eyes that a few weeks ago there was an organized revolt in the prisons that caused 13 deaths and enormous damage and the state's response, precisely because we are in an extraordinary emergency phase, with the country and the economy on its knees and under possible assault of the mafia, it had to be very hard. What was the answer? Eight thousand releases and five hundred mobsters put out and we in the Justice Commission of your Group, when I was a member of it, and in the Anti-Mafia Commission not at the hundredth release - you were present - but at the first release we asked for action. The answer was the proposal to ask a question because no action could be taken. Then she presented three decrees, which she said could not intervene, after the liberation of five hundred mobsters. It took three decrees to make her move. No, Minister, you missed everything on the fight against the mob. For the past year and a half, you have never appeared in the Anti-Mafia Commission and you will not come tomorrow, as President Morra told us yesterday. She doesn't come because she doesn't have a mob fight program. He has nothing to present for the fight against the mob. Minister, thank you for what you have done in the fight against the mob. Good people resign in the face of serious mistakes like these, disasters like these. Hell is full of these people for good. [[Applause]] MORRA (M5S). I'm asking to talk. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. In what capacity? MORRA (M5S). Personally, he was quoted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u27	Personally, we speak at the end of the session. It seems to me that the Rules of Procedure prescribe this and I believe that all of you must stick to it. The protest seems to me to be out of action. Senator Casini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u28	Mr President, I believe that today's sitting is not a simple one because, for some time now, much of the political story of this country has been played on the subject of justice, unfortunately also because of our inability to succeed with reform projects that were absolutely indispensable. Let us think, for example, of what has happened recently in the Supreme Council of the judiciary and of the need to finally launch a reform of the MSM. Unfortunately, a postponement is being carried out. But the reason why I spoke today - otherwise I would not have done so - was given to me by my colleague from the 5 Star Movement and some other speeches I heard earlier in this House. Colleagues, with great clarity, in the course of the debate someone evoked goods and barter. The debate is full of contradictions and we must have the courage to say that these contradictions are not only in the Government and Minister Bonafede but are first and foremost in this House, starting with the presentation of two motions with two very responsible speeches, which have, however, shown to all of us that the content of these motions is exactly the opposite. [[Applause]] Someone has summoned Giletti (who I value because he is a good journalist) as an example of good journalism in support of his motion. Senator Bonino said exactly the opposite, because exactly the opposite is the content of the two motions. However - commodity, barter - they will certainly not be unscrupulous in uniting votes, for opposing reasons, on opposing motions. The vows of opposites will unite. We've heard of Nino Di Matteo. Colleagues - it is perhaps the historical nemesis of the clash between justiceists - By Matthew, who for some was a devil, within a few months became a saint to attack Bonafede. I am simply a guarantor and have no reason not to believe what the Minister said about his interview with Di Matteo. But, even here, there is a certain ease in turning roles upside down and assigning parts to people. Finally, there are those who say that we are talking about justice here and that we cannot confuse the destiny of the Government with justice. I'm sorry, but we're really at the height of hypocrisy here. At a time when today I judge and decide to give my vote, I cannot fail to assess the fact that the vote of no confidence in Minister Bonafede legitimately coincides with a vote of no confidence in the Government, as the Head of Delegation of the Movimento 5 Star is the Minister of Justice. We don't live on the moon, we're in politics. I'd be surprised if that didn't happen. But even here someone pretends to be surprised that this can happen. Colleagues, I would like to ask Mr Bonafede something, because his reply to this debate is not obvious. Many of us have great doubts about the administration of the Ministry of Justice and - I say this honestly - I am one of them. I am very perplexed about some of the legal policy guidelines that the Minister has given. I am very perplexed and concerned about the act that followed the revolt in prisons (obviously led by some powers within them) and the subsequent measures of the Department of the penitentiary administration. Minister, if you really want to respond to the oath you took before the Head of State, you must avoid proposing, in the intervention that will follow here a few minutes, the approach that your 5 Star Movement expressed with the intervention made earlier by Senator Marco Pellegrini. In fact, it is not the right way to offend the presenters of the motions and the opposition and to explain that, basically, everything positive the 5 Star Movement has done, did it because others everything and always have wrong. No, Minister, this is an approach - I say this to the Five Star Movement with great respect - to be rejected to the sender. We are not zero year in the fight against mafia and crime; we are not zero year in any way. And the concept is not acceptable... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] (...) because it is signalled and lawfully put to the government by a movement, now it only has to respond. No, Senator Pilgrims, that's not how it works. Minister Di Maio pursues the foreign policy that the Government and Parliament ask him to follow and must take charge (such as the Ministers of the Interior, Justice, Defence and, in particular, all those Ministers who are at the most important crossroads of the institutions of our country) of a collegiality of vote that receives and assumes from Parliament and its majority.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u29	Senator Casini, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u30	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Therefore the Minister must not respond to the propaganda of the 5 Star Movement today, but must answer the serious questions that many colleagues of the majority have asked him (I am among them). These fellow Members are calling for an important clarification from the head of a Dicastery which responds to the majority, but I would like to say to Parliament as a whole. It serves more than the cause, dear colleagues of the 5 Star Movement; many times some demented defenses are very self-harmful. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u31	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u32	Mr President, I would like to say straight away that we will vote with conviction against the motions we are debating today. We will do so for reasons of merit and method. It is in fact evident the attempt of the oppositions to use such an important and delicate theme, such as that of justice, to try to bring down the Government, betting on the differences that coexist in a majority coalition. Senator Bonino, I do not know if they are apples or pears, but the exploitation of all this is evident - Senator Casini said now - when there are and will be center-right senators who will vote or even have signed opposing and irreconcilable motions, in order to try to bring down the Government. We will discover today that on the prisons one can be at the same time for justiceism, with good peace of Senator Dal Mas, one can be for the "throw away the key," but one can also be guaranteed and attack the Government for having kept too many people in prison. All legitimate, they will judge the Italians. But for us an opposition that, at this moment so grave for the country, chooses this path, the path of motions of individual distrust, first towards the Minister of the economy and now towards the Minister of Justice, is an opposition without arguments, which, as if we were in a normal situation, prefers to try to wear down the government rather than help to respond to the urgent problems of the citizens. [[Applause]] I don't think that's what the country needs; I don't think that's the responsibility of who should be at the service of the country. But even on the merits the motions under discussion are not acceptable. On the management of a chronic problem in our country, such as that of the overlapping of prisons, in an emerging phase such as this of the pandemic, absolutely instrumental and false reconstructions of what has been done. There was no "empty prisons" and no release of the perpetrators of the riots that were there, no liberation. Let us stop with propaganda: the credibility of the state is at stake. With the decree-law care Italy we gave the possibility to those who had less than eighteen months to serve to go to house arrest with the control of electronic devices and we extended the licenses for those who already worked outside the prison. As we know, the Democratic Party, we would have wanted to do more, because, despite what the League's motion writes, it is clear to everyone that, in an environment where six are in a cell of 10 square meters, physical space to prevent the virus is impossible. Anyway, I think the Minister's gonna give the numbers. Thanks to this intervention and the extraordinary work of the surveillance judiciary, which used all the rules available to reduce the prison population and to safeguard the health of prisoners, a constitutional principle was defended and the spread of coronavirus in prisons was avoided. Still on the merits of the motions, I was hoping that at least in this House no one could use a magistrate's phone call to an important television broadcast. [[Applause]] to justify an important parliamentary act such as that of distrust of a minister. But you did. Not only that, we also thanked the journalist who picked up that phone call in this House. On this we have no reason to doubt the answers given several times by the Minister in this House too. But certainly serious and worrying was the putting into house arrest, not the liberation - let us be careful to the words - of too many convicts condemned or under trial for Mafia crimes; prisoners that the Italian decree-law explicitly provided for could not enjoy the benefits provided for in it. There was no new rule of the government that allowed those release, but certainly there were serious problems in the functioning of the DAP and serious responsibility of those who led it because, in addition to not guaranteeing the relationship with the anti-mafia directions, it did not know how to prepare solutions that would avoid the house detention for these prisoners, without compromising their health. On this the Government and the united majority intervened effectively and promptly with the last two decree-laws, in order to prevent the repetition of too many releases of inmates for mafia and speed up their return to prison. What, then, are the reasons for distrust? The fact that the Minister demands that citizens pay taxes, as I heard before? Logoring the government? Drop the government? However - I repeat - nothing useful for justice or for Italians. Having said that, clarify the reasons why we are voting against these motions, I would ask you, Minister, to take this opportunity today to open a debate in the majority and in the country to seek solutions to the great problems of justice, finding a synthesis between the different political cultures that gave rise to this majority. You were also Minister of the previous Government and you made provisions that we - you know - did not share. Along with the League - let us remember - it voted the provision sweeping, and with the League - which I read have forgotten - it abolished the prescription after the first degree of judgment. [[Applause.]] With the previous government he threw the work of his predecessor on prison reform and process reform. It is clear to everyone that today you are Minister of a different Government and that the discontinuity with the previous one must be greater than it has been so far: that is what we are asking of you, Minister. We ask you, also strong in this parliamentary passage, to build together a shared agenda that sets out priorities and defines a practical discontinuity with the past. The reforms of the civil and criminal process are even more necessary today, so that justice can also contribute to tackling the difficult phase that opens for the country. Above all on the criminal trial, Minister, let us move forward on the proposals and ideas that we have already shared, and in this passage we revisit the subject of the prescription, because the changes introduced in the decree-law of the government are not enough; we have already said so. Again, Minister, we put on the agenda the issues of prison reform, the execution of the sentence and the issue of rights, starting with the law against homophobia. On these issues, Minister, you will find a PD available but demanding, and you need a coalition that sums up, looking forward and not behind. You must impose and propose the necessary discontinuity. The PD on these things is there and will evaluate government action on justice. We, Minister, are not like those who abolish the prescription by being in the majority and when they go to the opposition they shout at the scandal and want to reinstate it. [[Applause]] Neither are we like those for which to say "everyone inside" or "all out" is the same, if it serves instrumentally to weaken the Government. We have proposals and ideas and we trust that you will treasure them and will be able to make a positive synthesis within the coalition and within the majority. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ostellari. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u34	Mr President, Minister, these must not be easy days for you and, from a human point of view, they are also close to you. But console yourself, because for most Italians these days are even worse. They are - and this concerns you directly - for fellow lawyers, for their assistants, for magistrates, for chancellors, for women and men of the prison police, for administrative staff, for honorary magistrates, for all women and men who work every day in the courts and in the world of justice. Mr. Minister, I'm particularly interested in those who have suffered a serious crime and relatives of those who have not survived and who have been dishonored by the State. [[Applause]] A state that, with its complicity, Minister, has released mobsters and murderers. Minister, you do not accept advice: you do not accept them if they come from the League or from the center-right, you do not accept them from lawyers' associations, magistrates, academics and sometimes even from your fellow adventurers (we have previously heard Senator Cucca). In the 1960s, RAI broadcast a four-part play, dedicated to the protagonist of a book by Gončarov: "Oblomov." If you haven't read the book, I suggest you at least look at the script, because the character of Oblomov in some ways resembles her a lot: she lives with anxieties, doesn't make decisions, let things happen, dumps the blame on others or on destiny and, slowly, allows everything around him to fall into ruin. Minister, Italian justice, which you are leading, does not need an Oblomov, but needs courage, skills, ability to dialogue and pragmatism, needs prerogatives, which you have shown you do not have. That is why, unheard of, we asked her over and over again to step back. That is why we are here today asking the Senate to put an end to its experience as Minister. The texts of the motions - I want to say this, although Senator Casini is not there at the moment - are clearly different, but the central point is the same and they point to the merit of the matter: you have made too many mistakes and you cannot continue. [[Applause]] It is on the substance of the matter that my fellow senators and all of us today are called to account! If bosses and murderers are out of jail, it is the fault of those who have not listened to the doubts of the magistrates of surveillance and have not helped them to decide differently. [[Applause]] If there have been clashes, escapes and deaths in prisons, it is the fault of those who ignored the demands of the prison police unions. [[Applause]] In this regard, Minister, I would like to point out to you that another prison police officer in Padua, my city, committed suicide yesterday. If since the outbreak of the medical emergency the courts are in chaos, with protocols different from Region to Region, sometimes from city to city, the fault is of those who refused the confrontation with the presidents of court, with the magistrates and with the associations of lawyers. If constitutional freedoms are endangered by the lack of reforms, it is the fault of those who have chosen not to deal with reality. Minister, I also read the newspapers: for many of your fellow adventurers today, you do not vote for the distrust of Minister Bonafede, but you decide the fate of the government, because without you this government could not go on. Without her, the government taxing VAT matches, but giving out scooters, wouldn't have a future. [[Applause]] I'm sorry, Minister. Senator Casini certainly has more cynicism and political experience than I do, but I like to think it doesn't have to be that way. I would like this gathering executive to withdraw to give back the word to the Italians, but this will not happen, as Casini says. It cannot happen then that a government, however inadequate and disappointing, cannot do without those who have remained to look at the riots in prisons, those who have remained to watch the release of the mobsters, aware of the existence of circulars of the DAP or, worse, unaware of the same, then to blame the magistrates of surveillance. I refuse to believe that a government cannot go on without those who have thrown the courts into chaos. I refuse to believe that a government can bear any affront to law and common sense, in order not to give up a minister; just because that minister is a friend of Conte? Just because you and the Premier have a debt of friendship? Speaking of friendship, Cicero said that there is no friendship at all when, between two supposed friends, one does not want to hear the truth and the other is ready to lie; when, in case, one does not listen to the voice of the victims of the mafia and their relatives and the other mind to save himself and his position of power. [[Applause.]] Dear Minister, I want to believe that you can be distrusted. Colleagues, what else should Minister Bonafede combine to deserve our distrust? Because if he doesn't deserve it today, because of the logic that the government has to live, he'll never deserve it. Not sending him home today means giving a perpetual safe conduct to irresponsibility. Without mistrust, without an act of dignity on the part of this House, a terrifying message will pass: all mistakes are granted. [[Applause.]] What the Ministers do or do not do does not matter, whatever happens, nothing must be touched, because the important thing is to live. But be careful, because today the Italians no longer live. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u35	He's enlisted to speak Senator Vitali. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u36	Minister, you don't end up marveling me. In fact, belonging to you in the 5 Star Movement, that movement that made the defense of the institutions and the interests of the community its flag and its horse of battle, at such a delicate moment, when its majority is shaky, at a particularly delicate time for the country, I would have expected from you resignation: a signal that would recompense your majority and make this Government go forward. But it wasn't. Presumably? By arrogance? For lack of awareness? For the sake of risk? I will now quote you a few elements for which your mandate has not been up to date. Before we go into the matter, I mean you're a good person to me, too, but we're doing some political evaluations now. It has been said that Law No. 3 of 2019, so-called scrambled sweeps, that someone performs as a totem (not well understood by virtue of what), has been badly written and risks fueling corruption. [[Applause.]] I don't say it and it doesn't say Forza Italia; Canton says it, which was the anti-corruption commissioner. In fact, dear Minister, his law has been declared partially unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and even the State's bill, which normally defends the interests of the Government, preferred the interests of the right to those of politics and demanded its disapplication. [[Applause.]] This is his failure, not others. Then we talk about the prescription: a legislative strabism (I don't say it, Gherardo Colombo says), a monstrosity (I don't say it, Carlo Nordio says), a rule that goes against Article 111 of the Constitution on the reasonable duration of the trials, which establishes the endless trial, the accused endless. I could continue with the interceptions, with the undercover agent who becomes a provocative agent and therefore stimulates the commission of the crime, not to mention the trojan, which was established for the most serious offenses and which is, on the contrary, expanded to a great extent by entering the private lives of citizens. [[Applause.]] Then we also talk about the crisis of the prison system. Mr. Minister, the release did not depend on the surveillance judges, who applied the law, and they did not depend on the head of the department who did not give timely answers to those surveillance judges who had asked for them. The release of the mobsters depended on you, Minister of Justice, who knew from January that we were facing the pandemic and that you did nothing to protect the health of the criminals, albeit mafias, who must be treated from the human point of view just like all other citizens. [[Applause.]] This is your responsibility. Not to mention the spread of contagion within prisons, with prison police officers, and within the courts, such as the one in Milan, where you were unable to provide timely measures to protect workers. This is the case with the courts today, for which you have not yet been able to make a protocol to establish from Aosta to Caltanissetta the same rules for exercising judicial activity, which is a right of citizens. [[Applause.]] Then there is the reform of the criminal trial. Who saw her? Always announced and never realized. I want to talk about his friendships. In 2017 he took Luca Lanzalone to Rome, arrested for corruption. He appointed the head of the inspectorate, then investigated for corruption, not to mention the resignation of the head of the DAP and the head of the cabinet. Either you're unlucky - and I suggest you get baptized, get confirmed, do something, a macumba - or you're part of the system. A minister of the Republic is like Caesar's wife: not only must he be transparent, but he must also appear so. I don't know if you are, but it certainly doesn't look that way. [[Applause]] We then come to his gaffe: he confuses the 4- bis of the penitentiary order with 416- bis of the penal code; she does not know the difference between arson and manslaughter, since he goes on television and says that, when a crime is not arson, he is definitely manslaughter and the prescription is shorter, demonstrating that he does not even know the law he wrote... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] When you say there are no innocent people in prison, do you know, Minister of Justice, that 150,000 innocent people are being tried every year and 1,000 have been imprisoned? Do you know or don't you know? [[Applause]] She did not have the courage to assume the political responsibility to say that she preferred Basentini to Di Matteo: I do not cheer for anyone, but I claim the authority of politics to decide. She didn't have the courage to do that, either, crawling and putting a worse piece than the patch. You lack authority, prestige, credibility and, if I may, competence. He may be a good person, but he can't be a Minister of Justice. As I conclude, I would like to say to you that, before you, important ministers have resigned in the first and second Republics. Lattanzio resigned because Kappler had escaped: he was not Kappler's jailer, he was the Minister of Defence and took responsibility. After the earthquake in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Zamberletti made a difficult decision and resigned: A Friulian mayor was arrested for a bribe linked to the earthquake, and for this reason I resigned from the government: the reason was that I had promised to answer for everything had happened in Friuli, so not only of my mistakes, but also of those of others. This is what a serious and responsible person does. [[Applause.]] So resign, Minister, and assume your responsibilities. We will assume our own because, if the 5 Star Movement is pervaded by masochism, we do not, the Italian citizens do not. Therefore, if you do not resign - and it is still in time - we will vote in favour of distrust of you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u37	He's enlisted to speak Senator Lomuti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I saw everything during the first two years of the legislature, but I was obviously wrong. And I realized that by reading the content of the motions. I do not say that because of their origin because, otherwise, I should conclude the intervention with a judgment of untrustworthiness, but I say it because today there are two conflicting motions. One says the opposite of the other, but they have something in common, a word: "hypocritical." That's it. [[Applause.]] Where is the charge against Minister Bonafede? Is this for prison management? The release or the appointment of the DAP? I want to give you information: it arranges the release with the Minister of Justice, but the judiciary that we have always respected. [[Applause.]] He did so on the basis of the execution of some decades old laws: Law No. 199 of 2010 which the center-right has approved, which has always been called and is famous by the name of empty prisons. [[Applause.]] This is your story. What did Minister Bonafede do? He intervened on that law with the famous article 123 of the Italian cure, which limited the application of the household benefits, excluded the prisoners who committed serious crimes and were protagonists of the riots in the prisons in March and added the use of the electronic bracelet. This was done by Minister Bonafede, and not only! Minister Bonafede, a few days ago, signed two decrees that intervene precisely on possible future and past releases. This was the action of Minister Bonafede. Then we come here to review the choices on the DAP. We inform you that today at the top of the DAP there are people who have made their reason for living in the fight against the Mafia. That's what's been done. [[Applause.]] It is yesterday's news that a very dangerous boss has returned to be subjected to Article 41-a and, therefore, the effects of the interventions are beginning to be seen. On the nominations, however, of the DAP and on the famous episode of 2018 oppositions have been overcome. They did an unprecedented exploitation of Matthew's surgery. I want to remind those who have torn their clothes during the investigation of the public prosecutor Di Matteo on the negotiation between State and Mafia that, if it were for them, the Italian people would never have known that the State in the past has dealt with the Mafia. [[Applause.]] Today they exploit the name of the great magistrate Nino Di Matteo because it is convenient. On the other hand, they also do so with the Italian people: they pretend to love him until they have something to give away, but their loyalty to them ends when they end up benefiting from him. That's their story. The greatest farce, then, is read in the word "legality" contained in the motions. We do not accept legal lessons from those who started the government with a Biondi decree, with a law on legitimate impediment. [[Applause.]] We cannot accept lessons of legality from those who count within the senator groups that have been reached by requests for arrest. And we do not want legal lessons even from Brothers of Italy, who in a few months had five regional advisors achieved by arrest measures. This is you, and today you come here dressed in a clean conscience that is tight on your sleeves. This is before everyone's eyes. As for the motion, on the other hand, of Senator Bonino, who moralizes Minister Bonafede on issues that have been on the political tables for thirty years, and has been in politics since the 1970s and has been in government roles, having also been Minister, I would ask her what she has done about those problems. With reference to the two years in office, we can judge Minister Bonafede with respect to the plan on housing and judicial and civil and criminal justice reform. I don't want to talk about the corrupt sweep law that this country has been waiting for for 30 years. [[Applause.]] I don't want to talk about DASPO to the corrupt. I don't want to talk about strengthening the investigation tools. The discourse is one: the vision of society starts from its reorganization and is the reason why we today justify and justify our no to the motions of distrust. If we want to start with a rule of law, a state based on legality, all we can do today is reject motions of mistrust against Minister Bonafede. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u39	The debate is closed. You asked the Minister for Justice, Mr Bonafede. You have the right to do so. I remember that live television with RAI is in progress.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u40	Mr President, when you swear on the Constitution as Minister of the Republic, you decide to be a full man of the institutions. In the last three weeks, outside of this, there has been a debate seriously spoiled by allusions and illations, but out of respect for the institutions, rather than stirring up controversy, I have shared from the outset Parliament's need for a debate that has already developed in the Senate with four immediate-answered questions and the House with two immediate-answered questions, a hearing in the Commission on justice and urgent information in this House. I will now retrace the points of the motions presented, whose reasons are practically opposite to each other, and I will reply to them by very simply carrying out the strength and evidence of the facts, all documented here. Let's begin with the first point, that is to say the well-known story of the appointment of the summit of the Department of the penitentiary administration (DAP) of June 2018. The story has been to say the least unscrewed in all its parts and has been the subject of detailed information to the House. All the pseudo doubts that the political and media debate deliberately built on the words spoken during a telephone call to a television broadcast by Dr. Di Matteo have been largely cleared. We are talking about informal talks from almost two years ago and that with some difficulty I found myself incredibly having to rebuild, but so much so. On Monday, June 18, 2018, I telephoned Dr. Di Matteo to consider the possibility of joining the team I was building for the Ministry of Justice. We talked about the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP) and the Criminal Affairs Directorate, evoke what had been the role of Giovanni Falcone. During the call, he mentioned to me statements of Mafia bosses inside the prison worried about his possible appointment at the top of the DAP, information that didn't surprise me. I would like to take this opportunity to point out, since one of the motions refers specifically to this point, that it was not a question of technical interceptions, but of the statements of prisoners heard by the prison police and transcribed into service reports, already known to the Ministry from 9 June 2018 and, therefore, well before the phone call in question. I confirmed, of course, my willingness to meet him the next day. Tuesday, June 19, 2018, at 11 am, I meet Dr. Di Matteo at the Ministry as agreed. In these weeks' debate, the idea is that, after the proposal, there was a closure on my part. On the contrary: after the first phone call and on the occasion of that first meeting I simply convinced myself that the best option would be to propose to him a role comparable to what had been Giovanni Falcone's. It would certainly take longer and probably involve a reorganization of the Ministry, but it would have been worth it, because in the project I had in mind I would have allowed Dr. Di Matteo to work in via Arenula, beside me. After a long conversation, we left ourselves with this last idea and, not being an immediate perspective, there was no need to set a further appointment in the short term. However, in the late afternoon of that same day, I received a phone call from Dr. Di Matteo, who asked me to meet him the next day. I made myself available, of course. It's Wednesday, June 20, 2018, 11:00 a.m. Dr. Di Matteo returns to the Ministry and informs me that he is no longer available for a collaboration because he would have preferred the DAP. Given how we had left the day before, I learned his determination with surprise. Among other things, I informed him that, having a tight time due to institutional deadlines, I had already sent the request for the appointment of Francesco Basentini, to the Supreme Council of the judiciary in the afternoon of the day before, to which I had already given my confirmation. These are the facts that - let's face it - have nothing particular, let alone exceptional in relation to the modalities and dynamics of any appointment trust and discretion. [[Applause.]] All the facts are clear and always have been. Two points must be fixed once and for all. First, to the question of whether there were conditionings, once again the answer is no. Those who claim it make a reason for it; I am no longer willing to tolerate any allusion or ridicule illation. Dr Di Matteo himself, among other things, explained in an interview with "La Repubblica" of 6 May 2020 - I quote - that during the first phone call: The Minister was informed of the matter. The second point concerns the comparison between the two possible roles we discussed with Dr. Di Matteo. Here again the answer is very simple: in my determination, whether or not it was acceptable, Dr. Di Matteo would have had the opportunity to work in Via Arenula in a more specific role and potentially incident on all criminal matters. The mafia, which lives on signals, would not have gone to look at the Ministry's organization chart to see which role was higher or lower. The Mafia would simply have seen one circumstance: Matthew, within the institutions, worked alongside the Minister of Justice. [[Applause.]] So far the discussion of the topics dating back to 2018, can be considered exhausted, but let it be said incidentally that in these two years as Minister of Justice I have written and carried out laws that - as is normal - have received appreciations - among other things at international level - but also criticism. The latter, which I sincerely respect, are very often born both from different legal and cultural sensitivities, and from the fact that, quite legitimately, it was considered that the same objectives could be pursued through different instruments or rules. But there is one point that is evident to everyone: the firm determination, which I claim, with which those laws fight evil and it is precisely the fight against evil, without compromise, that has always animated and will always animate my political activity. With this in mind, I would like to turn to the issue of managing the impact of the coronavirus emergency in prisons, on which I am accused of not having prepared any health care and effective measures. The measures taken and the results achieved are all documented. Before we get there, however, we begin by saying that, in the face of a pandemic, the situation of the prisons has two peculiar aspects: on the one hand, we are talking about closed structures by definition, where it is more difficult for the virus to enter; on the other hand, in case the virus can enter, within the prison, as well as in any other closed structure and as - for example - dramatically happened in the health care residences (RSA), the concentration of people inside potentially increases its capacity for diffusion. I make it clear that I am not exposing a revolutionary scientific hypothesis: we are faced with a simple and elementary logical and common sense. On the other hand, there is no country in the world affected by the pandemic that has not posed the problem of prisons as one of the most complex border lines in the fight against the virus. Therefore, this problem has always been clear to everyone, except - according to the motions - the oppositions, which still claim in their motion that Article 123 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, so-called care Italy: Introduced the dangerous, unproved and false causal link between the risk of contagion and detention status. Therefore, the risk of contagion in prisons, which - I repeat - for the whole world is a fact, in Italy according to the opposition forces would have invented it by the Government with article 123 of the decree-law so-called care Italy. However, it is clear that all measures taken in Italy are based on specific medical and scientific indications from the competent health authority. The objective has always been clear: the protection of health, and not only of those who work and live in prisons, but also of the whole community, in avoiding that any outbreaks could aggravate the difficulties of the health system at that time already dramatically overloaded. In order to avoid this on February 22, the then head of the Department, Dr. Basentini, prescribed the respect by the penitentiaries and staff of the indications coming from the Ministry of Health, inviting at the same time every direction to coordinate with the local health authorities. The same circular immediately established the crisis unit in the Directorate-General for Prisoners and Treatment. Since then, the following measures have been taken: temporary suspension of the inmates' personal interviews, with consequent substitution by means of distance interview procedures (our example on this point has been followed by all the largest European countries); preparation of incoming controls, including through thermoscan, of so-called new arrivals, as well as of the prison staff; distribution of protective devices, in synergy with the Civil Protection, which I thank; installation of 145 tension structures at the entrances of the penitentiary institutions, in order to allow the so-called pre-triage; identification in the institutions where there is no tension structure of appropriate internal spaces; provision of specific health care for infected persons, with medical personnel to whom the evaluation is made of the need for possible hospitalization at external health facilities; identification of the spaces and sections suitable for possible health isolation in case of suspected infection; prohibition of transfer of prisoners, if not after medical examination and possible negative buffer; sanitization of the premises that have hosted infected and suspected contagion. Moreover, thanks to the collaboration with the Civil Protection and with the other competent Ministers - let me thank the Ministers Hope and Boccia - have been hired in extraordinary way 1,000 health workers for the prisons. Finally, since the start of the coronavirus emergency, 1,100 new prison police officers have been put in place in advance; in two years we talk about about about 3,900 agents. After the list of measures taken, the question to be asked at this point is as follows: did these measures work? You judge. At the date of 19 May 2020, of the 53,458 prisoners, 102 cases of currently positive persons were confirmed, of which only one hospitalized in external health facilities. [[Applause.]] Even considering the period when the pandemic in Italy reached the highest levels, inside the prisons we had a maximum of 162 prisoners at the same time positive throughout the national territory. 122 people have so far been healed and unfortunately, with deep regret, I must remember the death of an inmate as well as two other people who were already in home detention. With regard to the staff in service, out of 40,751, there are 154 employees currently positive, of which 4 of the administrative staff and 150 of the agents of our prison police. They are healed in 142. Allow me to express my closeness to the families of Gianclaudio Nova and Nazario Giovanditto, the two agents who lost their lives because of the coronavirus. [[Applause.]] To all the prison police and all the staff of the penitentiary administration goes my deepest and most sincere gratitude for the professionalism and self-denial demonstrated, once again, even during the emergency. Those uttered are numbers that speak for themselves and say that, contrary to what is stated by the two motions, the prevention plan and the contrast of the contagion not only there was, but, at least until now, it also worked. It is totally false the image of a government that would open the doors of prisons, even for the most dangerous inmates. Given the hand, the reduction of the population held in Italy has been determined, in the vast majority of cases, by the application of laws in force in our order for decades and that no one has ever changed despite the many years spent in the government of the country. [[Applause.]] The choice of this majority was simply to intervene without jeopardising the principle of certainty of punishment in order to simplify the functioning of the laws already in force, coming to impose the use of the electronic bracelet in cases where it was not previously planned. In particular, it was not provided for in Law No. 199 of 2010, approved by a center-right government, which sent prisoners without a bracelet into custody. Among other things, the new distribution system, adopted in full synergy with the Ministry of the Interior - I thank Minister Lamorgese, in addition to the extraordinary Commissioner Arcuri - will be able to assume a crucial role in the consolidation of this instrument, the electronic bracelet, especially with regard to prisoners waiting for trial. All the statements of the oppositions who spoke of empty prisons should have simply specified that they were referring not to a law of this majority, but to a law of their own, approved with a government of centerright. [[Applause.]] There is one point, in particular, that reveals the inconsistency of the accusations that are made to the undersigned and to the government. The decree-law cure Italy speaks clearly: they are excluded from access to house detention both the prisoners sentenced for Mafia crimes and other more serious crimes - so-called impediments - and of course all those who participated in the serious disorders in the prisons in the first days of March, on which are being investigated by the judicial authority, and not within the matter. Now I ask myself: in the face of a law that explicitly excludes rioters and mobsters from prison benefits, how is it possible to argue - as oppositions do - that this law can in any way benefit the mobsters and rebels who are explicitly excluded? [[Applause.]] The question that arises at this point is as follows: under what law have prisoners definitively sentenced to so-called Mafia crimes been released from prison? It's very simple. In most cases, it appears that it has occurred in accordance with Articles 146 and 147 of the 1930 penal code, in conjunction with the rules of the 1975 penitentiary order, which determine the continuation of the execution of the sentence in detention for health reasons. And are the above-mentioned rules in any way attributable to the work of myself or this Government? No, I'm not, unless someone wants to say we've been in the government for over 50 years. In summary, the judges have applied laws in force, at best, for over fifty years that no one has ever changed. It continues to refer to the DAP note of 21 March 2020, adopted on the basis of precise assessments from the health authority; a note that in full pandemic offered the competent magistrate a comprehensive health framework of all prisoners present in the prison. The note in question, among other things, has been issued in compliance with the principles enshrined in our Constitution, such as the protection of the right to health, also the decree of the President of the Republic n. 230 of 2000 which establishes - not now with this majority, but for twenty years, precisely - that, in the case of certain diseases, the management of the institute transmits the acts to the supervisory magistrate and the supervisory tribunal for the measures of respective competence. There's more. As has already been said several times in this House, however, this is an administrative communication which, by its very nature, certainly cannot bind the decision of a magistrate. The Constitution, of course, leaves no room for speculation in which the note of a director-general of a department of a Ministry can dictate or even only condition the decision of the magistrate, and this is not - as we continue to say - a barrel discharge vis-à-vis the judiciary. It is precisely the opposite: it is respect for the autonomy and independence of the judiciary. That is why I reject all political exploitation and I acknowledge - I stress - the surveillance judges that they have done an important job at a very difficult time when the pandemic, despite all the cautions adopted, has put to the test the entire general infrastructure of our country and, even more so, a delicate and complex administration such as that of the penitentiary. Incidentally, regarding the construction conditions of our prisons, in almost two years I have carried out a series of prison building projects that - for example - is leading to the opening, precisely in these two weeks, of four new pavilions for 800 detention places. In the next three years investments are already defined and allocated to improve the conditions of our prisons and achieve a total increase of about 5,000 new places. But I would like to focus on the re-educational purpose of the sentence, enshrined in Article 27 of the Constitution, which is a principle that is guiding this majority and this Government in all the measures relating to the matter of criminal execution. Since in one of the two motions there is talk of a lack of investment aimed at strengthening the reeducational function of the sentence, I recall that the investments within the treatment area have increased, precisely because of the will of this majority. I remember that the Department of Juvenile Justice and community that oversees the external execution of the sentence has been strengthened and the protocols of public service work for prisoners have multiplied from one to about 70 in two years. [[Applause.]] I would remind you that the central office for the work of prisoners has been set up. Just yesterday the ban was published for prison executives after more than twenty-three years and at the end of the month will be published a competition for 95 educators, while the selection for cultural mediators is ongoing. Clearly the situation is still difficult and there is a lot to do. There have been magistrates who, at a time of serious epidemiological emergency, have decided to release prisoners for health reasons - I repeat - on the basis of existing rules for decades and, without entering into the merit of such decisions, the Government has immediately intervened with two decrees that are already giving important results. With the first, No 28 of 2020, the National Anti-Mafia and Counter-Terrorism Directorate and the district directorates make a mandatory opinion on decisions in relation to which no involvement was previously expected. Although many people are now saying what they would have done, the only certain fact is that no one has ever thought about this important innovation. We, this Government, this majority, have introduced that innovation. [[Applause]] Thanks to the second anti-mafia decree, No. 29 of 2020, within two weeks all convicted or accused for serious crimes, released for health reasons related to the risk Covid-19, which are 497 but 256, return to the judge in the light of the changed health framework of phase 2 and the DAP assumes by law a role that it did not previously assign to him. Having said that, I am clearly carrying out all the necessary investigations that are the responsibility of the Minister and the Ministry of Justice. Meanwhile, there has been a timely change at the top of the DAP with the arrival of the new leader, Dr Bernardo Petralia, and the deputy chief, Dr Roberto Tartaglia. Also on this, in one of the two motions bold and unfounded disputes are raised that the appointment of Dr. Tartaglia is illegitimate. The relative act of appointment, formalized by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 30 April 2020, is perfectly in accordance with the current legislation, as confirmed by the absolutely positive outcome of the control carried out both by the Supreme Council of the judiciary and by the Court of Auditors. Finally, the failure to take appropriate measures in the field of the organisation of judicial offices is disputed, especially with a view to the restart phase which began on 11 May. Contrary to what was stated in the motions, the Ministry of Justice immediately activated itself to provide the judicial offices with the necessary support to cope with any difficulties encountered. In this case too, I limit myself to the list of decisions taken: constant comparison since 24 February with the top judicial offices to ensure the correct approach and supervision of needs in the so-called phase 1. In Decree-Law No 18 and Decree-Law No 28 of 2020, provisions on computerization in the field of procedural, civil and criminal matters have been given. Secondly, there has been the extension of telematic notifications in the criminal process; the farewell of the electronic criminal deposit of legal value for the defensive acts referred to in Article 415- bis, paragraph 3, of the Code of Criminal Procedure; the mandatory deposit of introductory acts by means of telematic civil trial; the initiation of the telematic civil trial in Cassation; the unblocking of the procedures for correcting the examinations of lawyers and court and notary competitions. All this happened in the effective confrontation with the attorney and my thanks go to all those who work in the judicial offices, under conditions certainly difficult and with serious inconveniences. For the start of the so-called phase 2, the effort was directed towards the gradual reopening of offices, focusing attention on the safety aspect of workplaces. No one could delude himself that it was a simple and unimpeded path, but the efforts already made and those in progress, with the huge resources contained in the so-called I throw back, will allow to face all the difficulties that the emergency is putting us. It is a challenge that the Ministry had already accepted; the process of change had already begun and has undergone an important acceleration as a result of the pandemic. I am now beginning to conclude. The concrete measures taken during the emergency are the result of the teamwork of the entire Government, which has decided to consider justice a real priority. [[Applause.]] I am the Minister of Justice of a Coalition Government and the crucial role of justice, which is at the heart of all economic operators and all citizens in general, takes on even greater importance at this time of departure for our country. It is essential for citizens to know that they can rely on a process that has a certain and reasonable time. Many times within the majority we have questioned and even divided in order - for example - the impact of the prescription reform. On this point, as well as on the whole progress of the process, it will be important, in the light of what has already been done for the so-called red code, to set up a ministerial commission for the deepening and monitoring of the time needed to assess the effectiveness of the reform, both of the new criminal process and of the new civil process. The guarantee of the right to defence and the reasonable duration of the trial are two essential values that go hand in hand and represent the main objective of the reforms of the civil and criminal process. In this respect, since I am accused of not having been scheduled in relation to one of the two motions, I would remind you that this - as everyone knows - belongs to the sovereignty of Parliament, on which I do not interfere. Again with regard to guarantees and fundamental rights, I proudly claim the utmost attention paid to the very serious disease linked to the unjust detentions. I want to make it clear that I am the Prime Minister of Justice who has ordered the Ministry's inspectorate to verify in a structural and systematic way all cases in Italy of unjust detention for the measures that it will then consider necessary to carry out. [[Applause.]] Among other things, the powerful increase, already arranged, of the people who work and will work in the courts, in synergy with the Minister Dadone, with togati and honorary judges and with administrative staff, is the best starting point. Another fundamental reform project is that of the Supreme Council of the judiciary, which protects autonomy, but also the authority and prestige of the institution. On its project there had already been a broad convergence in the majority just before the Coronavirus emergency began. I am aware that on all these contents the confrontation with all political forces of majority will be constant, in-depth and marked by loyal and real collaboration, as happened - for example - at the recent approval of the two anti-Mafia decrees. In these early months of the year the challenges faced have been many and have covered fundamental areas not only of justice, but also of the health and economic life of our country. I am thinking - for example - of the draft government law on agromafie, written together with Minister Bellanova, which incorporates the project of the so-called Caselli Commission. Similarly, the monitoring and improvement of the effectiveness of instruments to combat violence against women should be continued. Faced with cultural and political differences that exist and must be respected, the great challenge to be faced is the concrete possibility of finding a synthesis in the majority, in name and in awareness of the ultimate goal of justice: that is, the protection, protection and respect of the rights of all citizens who are and must be truly equal before the law. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u41	We shall now proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u42	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u43	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u44	UNTERBERGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, as has also been seen in today's general debate, in Italy, when we talk about justice, we always reach the categories of guarantors and justiceists. While the guarantors are proud of it and emphasize it with much emphasis, the executioners are called so more by their political opponents. To say it in a banal way: the guarantors are those who in the criminal process pay more attention to the rights of the accused, while the legalists on the rights of the offended persons. It is an all-Italian categorization: at least in my language and in my culture this terminology and these categories do not exist. In the event that we face today, the representatives of the center-right, and among them a party that of guaranteeing and judicial anti-fanaticism made the pillar of its political reason, first they filed a motion of distrust against the Minister of Justice. Well, let's see the points in motion one by one. Almost two years after his non-appointment as head of the DAP, a prosecutor intervenes in a television broadcast to express the suspicion that the Minister of Justice did not appoint him to not displease some mob bosses. Apart from the explanations that the Minister has already offered, I wonder: on which side should it be who boasts to be a guarantee? Certainly not on the side of the magistrate who uses television to make insinuations of such gravity. [[Applause]] If that magistrate were sure of what he said, why didn't he turn to the competent bodies? And then I ask you: do you see Minister Bonafede succube of the Mafia? One who is the author of a series of measures which - as he is challenged in the same motion of distrust - would be of such a kind as to be even outside the Constitution? [[Applause]] If they have a fault Bonafede and his movement, it is to have fueled the monster of suspicion and show justice, which today turns against them. But this cannot be a reason to act according to the same patterns. Let's move on to the second point, the protests in the prisons. At the beginning of the emergency many prisoners protested for the degradation and overcrowding of the structures - even more serious at the time of the Covid - and for the suspension of visits, which are often the only possibility of receiving goods of comfort. The Minister reacted with a rule to grant house arrests to prisoners who still had a sentence to serve less than eighteen months, expressly excluding from this benefit those convicted for mafia and for the most serious offenses. This initiative was necessary, the daughter of a situation in which the state failed to guarantee the health of the prisoners. And here again I wonder: are the guarantors only such in the sentence of the trial? If a person is convicted, then he must rot in prison, as we have heard so many times? The mafia bosses who went to the home for health reasons count on the fingers of one hand, while the number most fed is composed of people in protective custody. Of course, every mob boss who comes out of prison is always too much, but all this happened on the basis of rules that existed well before Minister Bonafede. Above all, is this decision a prerogative of the supervisory courts? Can you not think of the fact that, by blaming Minister Bonafede, you are attacking the division of powers that you proudly guaranteed should be the most sacred of principles? [[Applause.]] The Minister did the only thing he could do by writing a rule requiring the supervisory tribunals to periodically verify the existence of the prerequisites for their decision. And already this, for some, was too much. Mrs Bonino's motion accuses the Minister of having imposed the revision with an alleged retroactive effect of the decisions taken by the supervisory judges; in addition, that the measure granting house arrests to persons with a sentence of less than one year and six months would be insufficient and would be a negligence resulting from a purely grievous idea of the penalty. Two motions that boast to be guaranteed, but that contradict each other: for one, the Minister would have released too many people, for the other, too few; for one, the inmates are mafias who do not deserve pity; for the other, they are people to whom dignity must not be taken away; for one, the revolts are instrumental in reaching the indult; for the other, the revolts should push for such a reflection. [[Applause]] I wonder, then, how we can vote in favour of both motions; how one political force can half sign one motion and half the other. [[Applause.]] Here we are not faced with different ideas, we are faced with a motion that is white and the other that is black. The most original of the three disputes in the motion of the center-right is the last, the one on the unconstitutionality of the measures. If I recall correctly, provisions of uncertain constitutionality have been enacted by the previous Government, whose political paternity has always been proudly vindicated by the force that today calls for distrust. [[Applause.]] I recall the rules intended to limit the discretion of judges, for a case law that is not welcome on permits for humanitarian reasons or on the recognition of self-defense. I remember, in the second security decree, the financial penalties for those who save lives at sea or the withdrawal of citizenship as ancillary penalty. Not to mention the violation of international agreements, on which even the President of the Republic had to intervene. To those who allude to the law on the suspension of the prescription, there is no trace of unconstitutionality. On the contrary, it is a legal institution that exists in all other European countries, where often the prescription is suspended already from the first act of investigation. The great and chronic problem of the long duration of the processes must be contrasted with interventions such as the simplification of the procedural rules, where often an exaggerated guarantee of the forms, rather than of the substance, provides the defenders with a flood of exceptions able to bring to infinity the duration of the trial; or forcing the State to refuse the procedural expenses to those who are acquitted with full formula, perhaps with a right of regression towards a prosecutor who carries out a clearly unfounded accusation. Also on the shortage of staff and judges, on the old state and the overcrowding of prisons, on which Amnesty International has repeatedly taken a stand, the State must put its hand. Instead of dividing completely superficially and full of contradictions into justiceists and guarantors, everyone should be for a fair process, with a balanced balance of all the interests at stake and with a penalty that finally carries out its reeducational function. By a responsible opposition one would imagine solicitations and proposals in this regard and not a low political propaganda, of which one would gladly do without in a period of such profound difficulty for the country. I am announcing the Group's vote against the two motions of mistrust for the Autonomies. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u45	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u46	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u47	RENZI (IV-PSI). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that if we vote today in accordance with the method that you, Minister of Justice, have used in your parliamentary experience with the members of our governments, you should go home today: Angelino Alfano, Federica Guidi, Maria Elena Boschi, Maurizio Lupi, Luca Lotti, Claudio De Vincenti. But we're not like you. Minister, I hope that this incident which has affected you - and on which I have no doubt, even for my own personal knowledge, in saying that you are everything, except that a person who can be approached by the Mafia - can make you think, first of all from a personal point of view and can make your colleagues in the Movimento 5 Stars reflect. To be unfairly pointed out, to go to the newspapers, to force their families to be in the newspapers and to suffer the shame of a massacre in the media hurts. You spend the night thinking it's your fault, if the people you love are close to you, the people you love are sick. And then I invite you only to make a personal reflection on these issues, then I come to politics, because it's politics that guides us, not populism, it's not polls, it's data: surveys tell you how nice you are, the data tells you how competent you are. It is not justice that guides us, it is justice. Since we are starting from politics, when we announce that we will vote against motions of mistrust, we recognize the center-right and Senator Bonino that they have put real issues. It is necessary, even in times of difficulty, to recognize each other and to say that your motions were not instrumental and I tell you that we will not vote on them. We will not vote for them for political reasons, first and foremost for what Mr President-in-Office of the Council has said. The President of the Council of Ministers made it clear that, if there had been a vote, part of the majority, against the work of the Minister or in favour of the motion of no confidence, would have taken the political consequences. When the President-in-Office speaks, he respects himself institutionally and listens politically. I believe that you have a responsibility, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, but we follow it, because in a country with about 31,000 deaths, which has 11% of the deficit estimated for this year, which sees the public debt going to 160 percent of GDP, where unemployment is expected to be at 15% by the end of the year, those of us who consider ourselves an institutional patriot, those of us who believe in reason of state, respect what the President of the Council says, if it is a majority. [[Applause]] From this point of view, I say this by sharing a large part of Senator Bonino's reflections. I do not therefore say this with a judgment of substance, on which I will arrive in a moment, but I say this for a political fact and, as I say this, I acknowledge that the President-in-Office of the Council has given important signals over the last few days. We greatly appreciated his position on regional tax on production activities (IRAP), we greatly appreciated his battle of legality alongside Minister Bellanova and we appreciated the acceleration on reopenings. However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, there is still much to be done, because when she decides to place all the weight of her political authority alongside the Minister of Justice, she certainly does not do so because of a personal or professional esteem that we too, since Florence, remember, but does so because of a political fact. We must follow up with you and tell you, Mr President-in-Office, that if the Minister of Justice had listened to us, in February 2020, about the Department of Penitentiary Administration (DAP), what happened on release would not have happened. [[Applause]] And to tell you, Mr President-in-Office, that we are not interested in an undersecretary, that we are interested in unlocking the yards and unlocking them quickly, because if we do not unlock the yards, that 15% of unemployment is going towards 18 or 20. And to tell you, Mr President-in-Office, that when we bring ideas we are not, as some zealous collaborator of yours says, seeking visibility, also because they are often ideas that bring negative visibility: we are trying to affirm concepts. In this House - and I demand this, Mr President - when I asked, in unsuspecting times, to think about the reopening of schools, I heard the mounds not only of the other groups, but even of my Group. However, I can say today, after a month, that if we consider the school the first thing to close, before the cable cars, and the last to reopen, after the pubs, we give a diseducational signal to our children, we give a wrong message to the new generations. [[Applause.]] To say so is not to make controversy or seek 0.1% more consensus; to say so means to make politics and we claim the right, in this House, to tell her that we follow her on her political assessment, but we ask you to assume responsibility. I come to the second point where we do not vote in favour of motions. It has to do, Minister for Justice, with the relationship between guaranteeing and justiceism. Minister, we have known each other for a few years and you know perfectly well that it has never been imaginable, at least for me, that vengeance could have been served on such a silver tray: it was attacked by the executioners. Moreover, I do not go into the substance of the discussions, but since in more than one in this Chamber you have quoted Judge Di Matteo, who is to whom our respect and wish for good work goes, allow me, for having lived a certain page of history of this country, to express an affectionate thought to the senator, President emeritus of the Republic, Giorgio Napolitano: he knows why and you know why. [[Applause. Comments.]] The fact that someone moans about the President emeritus of the Republic Giorgio Napolitano qualifies you for what you are and does not make you reason for the importance of some historical passages in this country. [[Applause.]] But de minimis non curat praetor. I come to the point. Mr Minister, could you have imagined - since we have been comparing ourselves for a few years, you and I, in Florence as well as in Rome - such a clear opportunity of revenge? But you and I - all of us - have a task: to explain to the new generations that politics is not revenge. You don't make politics with a personal resentment. [[Applause.]] You don't make politics thinking of asserting a law of taglion, eye for eye, tooth for tooth. The young people who follow us and follow this debate know, Minister of Justice, that certain of your expressions on justice are expressions that have hurt us. She, in January 2016, in an interview with Annalisa Cuzzocrea, said that, if there is a suspect, even those who are clean must resign. No, Minister. If there is a suspect, he who is clean must not resign. It is necessary to reject the culture of suspicion, the culture that made John Falcone say that the culture of suspicion is not the antechamber of truth: the culture of suspicion is the antechamber of khomeinism. That's what John Falcone said in 1991. [[Applause.]] I end on this, because I like to think that, being in May, the month in which in a few days we will remember once again the sacrifice of John Falcone, his wife Francesca and the boys of the escort [[Applause]] , you and I, Minister, were not even eighteen and many of us, in this House and perhaps even outside, have chosen the degree course in law because they saw at that stage a terrible time for the life of the country. We signed up for law school because we thought that was a way of saying that they rejected the culture of death that the Mafia was expressing. We were 16, 17, 18 years old. We were shocked at the state's failure. That's why I can't believe anyone imagines that Alfonso Bonafede had some kind of relationship with the mob. At the same time, however, I want to say to all of us that that battle against the Mafia culture must not see us divided. I end by remembering a personal fact. We are guaranteed, yes, but - I address the friends of the center-right - does not mean that we are goodists. To be guaranteed means to respect the rules and rights of citizens. But when in 2016, while I was President of the Council, the then watchman, the good watchman Andrea Orlando came to tell me: We have a problem, Matthew, Bernardo Provenzano is dying; we are asked to kill him at home and the same hypothesis occurred the following year about Totò Riina, with another President of the Council, Mr Gentiloni, and always with Minister Orlando, we who are for justice, not for goodness, we made a commitment, which was to guarantee Bernardo Provenzano and Totò Riina the maximum of the possible care because we were, are and will be the State. Bernardo Provenzano and Totò Riina, however, died in prison, because that was their place and this is not goodness, it is justice. Minister, there has been too much superficiality on the part of the DAP on the issue of release. Minister, there is still a lot to be done on the issue of limitation, criminal proceedings and civil proceedings. Minister, be the Minister of Justice, not the Minister of Justice, and you will see that you have us at your side. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u48	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u49	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u50	Balboni (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you were not obliged to take into account your discretion in the appointment of the head of the DAP: that is absolutely true. However, at a time when you decided to account for it even on live television, you, all the more because you are the Minister of Justice, had a duty to tell the truth. All Italians have understood that you, unfortunately, did not tell the truth, not only because, as everyone knows, there is no comparison between the DAP and the Directorate for Criminal Affairs; not only because the Directorate for Criminal Affairs is no longer what it was in Falcone's time; not only because the criminal affairs were already occupied by a senior official just appointed and you did not have the power to replace it because, unlike the DAP, criminal affairs are not the subject of a discretionary appointment; not only because there was not the great reorganization of the criminal affairs that you had in mind and, indeed, were further powerless thanks to your decisions; not only for all this, but because you yourself affirmed and admitted that, at the time you hypothesized the appointment of Dr. Di Matteo, you were already known the outbursts of the mafia worried about the appointment to head the DAP, not Dr. Basentini, but Dr. Di Matteo. Then what do you do? You, aware that the mob fears the appointment of Dr. Di Matteo, appoints Dr. Basentini. What better opportunity would he have to challenge the mob than to name the magistrate the mob didn't want? He did the opposite. And then it's not credible because, when you give unnecessary explanations, those explanations must be truthful and true. There's still a fact that cuts the bull's head off. Dr Di Matteo, in that same interview on 6 May that you quoted, states that, when you proposed to him the appointment to criminal affairs, he said this sentence, dear Minister: "There is no dissent or lack of appreciation that he holds." There was a dissent, then; there was a lack of appreciation in relation to the appointment of Dr. Di Matteo to the DAP, then. And you, despite being repeatedly urged not by oppositions, but by public opinion and by the most important national newspapers, have never responded to this. We want to know who expressed the dissent and who expressed the displeasure. You feel offended because someone assumes that you didn't mention Dr. Di Matteo to not displease the bosses. I believe you; I don't think you didn't mention Dr. Di Matteo for fear of the utterances of the mob criminals, but I believe - because you didn't explain this point - there was an opposition to this appointment and that you accepted this imposition by taking the floor against Dr. Di Matteo and lying on television to the Italians. Even today, in the face of this branch of Parliament and the whole of public opinion, you, Minister, are extremely damaging to the credibility of justice, and that is why you should have the good taste to resign without waiting for the vote of this House. Perhaps it will be saved by the vote of this House. We have heard Senator Renzi say that he will vote against the motion of no confidence. Senator Renzi went to cash in once again. We take note of this: we think that at this stage, Senator Renzi, you will end up having more seats than you vote, but this is your choice, it is not our problem. We come to the riot in prisons. Mr. Minister, have you given us a very interesting list of all the successes achieved during the months of the emergency and, even earlier, by Dr. Basentini in the management of prisons and then forced him to resign? Why did you have Basentini discharged if he handled prisons so well right now? [[Applause.]] Most importantly, why did you accept your resignation? He accepted them because he urged them; if it were not true that he had asked them, he could reject them. None of this. We have been revolted in prisons, as colleagues said before me: EUR 30 million of damage has been estimated and there have been 14 deaths. An incredible thing, and how do you react? By asking or inviting the magistrates to proceed in a very direct way and inflict serious penalties on the rebels? No, you react with Article 123 of Decree-Law No 18 of 2020, in which for the first time in our legal system - and you are a jurist and you must know that - a new principle is introduced. Domicile release or detention is governed by Articles 146 and 147 of the Penal Code and are expressly recalled by the penitentiary order, which provides for home detention when there is a pathological condition in place of the inmate incompatible with the prison condition. This is the principle on which from the Rocco code, to the penitentiary order, to the law of 2010 to which you referred our legal order has always been based, for a principle of piety towards those who suffer. If a person suffers in prison and there is no way to treat it in prison, it can be put to house arrest. You have done something absolutely new: you have established the principle that you can go to home detention not only when you are sick, but also when there is a risk of getting sick. The risk of contagion has been included in Article 123 in our legal order as a reason to send prisoners to house arrest and it does not matter that in that article it is excluded that they can send to house detention prisoners under 41- bis or under Article 4- bis of the penitentiary order, because this principle has entered and of course the magistrates have used it by sending home 8,000 prisoners, including 500 dangerous criminals. This is another result of his surrender to the pressures of organised crime. I'm not saying that, but Dr. Gratteri said that at the hearing last week in front of the Justice Commission. As if that weren't enough, his chief of staff finally resigns. He is a little unlucky, Minister: his chief of staff resigns because he has found himself involved in a bad history of intercepting and commodimonio running armchairs in relation to very important positions of magistrates. Minister, I believe that in the face of all this you must take note of your inadequacy to carry out the so important task of Guardasigilli of the Italian Republic and must, at least in an honorable way, save your face and resign. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u51	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u52	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u53	Grasso (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, today's debate is crossed by an annoying thread of transversal hypocrisies which have little to do with the merit of what we are discussing and very much with small or large wars of position, political positioning. I'm only quoting three to highlight the counter-intensities. Those who have always thundered against the idea of motions of individual distrust are today among the signatories of a motion of individual distrust. Those who have always criticized my friend and former colleague Nino Di Matteo are today marrying him, throwing in remains, not only ideas and arguments, but even perceptions. Those who have plundered a serious reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary to avoid the overpower of currents today stutter in the face of the publication of exchanges involving not only numerous magistrates, but also numerous political leaders. Finally, it would appear that the principles guaranteed by parts of the same majority can now be bartered. These are rumors that I think are absolutely false and slanderous, as evidenced by the denials received from the editorial staff and also in this House. Having freed the field from these boulders, we come to the merits of the issues raised. There has been much controversy over the poor management of the first phase of the emergency in prisons. I myself, when you, Minister, came to render your information after the riots, pointed out the indecisions of the Head of the DAP, indecisions and stutterings that made those weeks really complicated in prisons. Other great controversy was then due to the release of hundreds of prisoners under high security regime or even some at 41- bis, but we immediately clear the camp: the release has nothing to do with the measures enacted by the government. As you know, the postponement of the penalty for illness, as you said, was already foreseen if the state of health was not compatible with the prison regime, it was not introduced by the current emergency decree. We have seen, rather - and this is my assessment - a general blur, a sum of errors of assessment committed, but it must be emphasized, first of all, by the DAP and by those who were in charge of it. It was precisely a DAP circular that transformed a virtual danger, that is, that some prisoners in more delicate health conditions could become sick of Covid, into a real risk. The supervisory judiciary has to some extent been induced to have the measures, sometimes even in the absence of specific requests from the prisoners themselves, in the light of the evaluation of the risk of infection coming from the DAP. On the other hand, I cannot fail to note the acquiescence of certain courts and prosecutors, who could have opposed in the cases of prisoners for whom the return home, albeit temporary, is too great a risk for their social danger. We know that the mafias live on symbols and what has happened has caused serious image damage to the state, which has shown a failure in all its institutional structures. However, I am sure that the new summits you wanted will be able to inaugurate a new course in the management of prisons and the effects are already seen, repairing the damage of the previous management. [[Applause.]] The right to the dignity and health of prisoners is as valid as that of all other citizens. As we all know, at this moment in our country's prisons the reality is quite different from this affirmation of principle, whatever the crime they committed. The opposition colleagues then referred to the alleged confrontation with Nino Di Matteo, claiming that the Minister did not want him as DAP leader on the basis of the transcription of dialogues between mob bosses in prison. It is clearly false, a former prosecutor tells you: those dialogues were already clearly known to the Minister, even before the initial proposal to Di Matteo. [[Applause]] That motivation, therefore, has no logical consistency and would not stand in any court. Knowing then Di Matthew's respect for the institutions, I do not doubt that his expression took place after two years precisely because at the time it would be read as a form of personal vindication. However, I take this opportunity to remind those who have never done so that closeness and solidarity to a magistrate in danger as he should always be demonstrated, not only when it suits his political side. [[Applause.]] Archived the controversy, let us focus on the present and especially on the future, Minister, we have a great deal to do. The recent ruling of the Constitutional Court on Article 4-a of the penitentiary order (the now famous obstacle regime) censors the automatism that links the possibility of accessing the penitentiary benefits to cooperation with justice. In the anti-Mafia Commission, we are working on a proposal to be submitted to Parliament as soon as possible. The independence, autonomy and impartiality of the judiciary are seriously endangered by a system of currents that in the past, through the CSM, has made illustrious victims such as Falcone and Borsellino. It seems dramatically obvious that the MSC needs reform, starting with its election. It is the chronicle of these times that impose it. On this the Minister Bonafede and the majority - I give notice - have begun before the coronavirus a path to overcome the current dynamics, now become an internal power in order, a vehicle of mixing with the political power. I have also publicly proposed a hypothesis of election on two levels, which enhances representation, territoriality and merit and brings the CSM closer to the base, i.e. to all magistrates. Having given up on his part the first hypothesis, the draw, makes me realize that there is the will to find a solution. It is also a matter of giving the legs to this project. I would remind you, Minister, that in addition to the judicial action that today can also produce antibodies to bring out crimes, even committed by magistrates, your office remains also the holder of disciplinary action, which you can exercise through the inspectorate, but which is currently without a summit. Then there is the urgent reform of the criminal trial, the only one that can avoid the risks of a never-ending trial, of a lifetime trial. It is not by reducing the prescription times - we know - that the problem is solved, but by effectively reducing the time of the processes. On this point, however, I do not now have time to extend, as I have done on other occasions. In conclusion, Minister, the Free and Equal Group renews its confidence and will vote against both motions. [[Applause.]] In order to honour this confidence now that Parliament's activities have resumed their usual course and we have resumed to address issues no longer related to the pandemic, we ask you to continue, with even greater vigour, the fruitful debate and debate with the Commission Justice and the anti-Mafia Commission, in order to intervene more quickly and incisively on the many issues that we have undertaken to carry out. Good job, Minister. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u54	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u55	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u56	Mr Rossomando (PD). Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote against both motions. It is, as has been said, a political issue. In the midst of an unprecedented crisis, in a very serious situation for the country, oppositions legitimately present a motion of distrust against a single Minister to open a government crisis. This is the inescapable point. The intent is not only stated, but is demonstrated by the method and content, as has already been said: two motions are signed at the same time that say opposite things. Mine is obviously not a moralistic judgment, it is the unveiling of the line: in one motion we denounce the so-called cheerful release, in the other, rightly, we recall the contrast of a purely grievous conception of the penalty, we refer to the reeducational goal of the sentence and will be voted - it seems - by those who said that people must rot in jail. So we're not discussing justice, alas, we're talking about opening up a government crisis. We will also vote against this because if the motions are to represent a minimal alternative to what is being dropped, we are against an approach that draws inspiration, motivation and adherence to a telephone call during a television broadcast based on suspicion and allusions, among other things with statements by an illustrious magistrate, also belonging to the Supreme Council of the judiciary. Of course, it has been said several times and I would also like to make a joke about the historical nemesis of certain methodologies. However, we are against this: if this is the precondition for bringing down the government, we are against this approach. That is not the alternative profile and it is not from here that we need to discuss justice. But let us not shy away, because justice is the highest point of the constitutional balance between the separation of powers and is therefore also the most critical point in protecting the freedoms of all. Perhaps that is also why in the last 20 years the debate on justice has been a reflection of the deterioration of the political and institutional debate and the function of politics. So I want to talk about the culture of guarantees, I like it more than guaranteeing that there is a risk of misunderstanding. I think it is wrong to counter guaranteeing justiceism, in a sort of loosening of the control of legality towards those who, on the other hand, are for legality. No, the culture of guarantees is the culture of legality, because if there is no legality in the process there is no legality in all fields [[Applause.]] So, the culture of guarantees is an integral part; it is the centerpiece of the culture of legality, and what is it? It is the constitutional principles, the reasonable duration of the trial, the presumption of not guilty, the right of defence guaranteed by the contradictory and centrality of the trial. The culture of guarantees is not a guarantee for categories of people; it is the idea that applies both to white collars and to poor people, and there is no privilege of either. When the individual is faced with the power of the State, there is the culture of guarantees, without whether or not. The culture of guarantees is not to make laws on the wave of emotions. [[Applause.]] Raise your hand who can be called out in this House; I think there are few, perhaps it is worth a bit of a debate. The culture of guarantees is not to call the square together when you have to face a process [[Applause]] ; call the people to the streets when the judge pronounces a sentence in the name of the people. The culture of warranties is a reasonable time: it is not the process ever raised by both the short prescription and the prescription ever, because the prescription is not the way to face the times of the process. It is not the exaltation for political use of that or that other figure of magistrate. It is the centrality of the process in the classrooms with all its guarantees and not in the media's pillage. The culture of guarantees are certain times for investigations, and we are therefore against judicial populism just as we are against the interceptatics all of them, and we will certainly not leave this argument. We began to treat him differently but certainly did not help those who, in past legislation, used this argument to weaken an instrument of investigation; that is not guaranteed either. I liked the reference to the 1970s legislation on penitentiary law. It is a regulation that needs to be updated, a norm of civilization, because those norms of civilization have beaten the relapse, in the legal civilization and for the safety of all citizens. [[Applause.]] That is why we think that the question of the penitentiary system should be taken up again. I have therefore appreciated, Minister, your clear defence of the judiciary of supervision in its autonomy and independence, because the autonomy and independence of the judiciary is also a culture of guarantees, against the strong powers of any kind. Each of us would like to be judged by an absolutely independent and free judge in the judgment [[Applause.]] And we, in the last parliamentary term, fought to change the rules on custody and at the same time introduced a substantial change to the Mafia political exchange vote, which was in part endangered by a rather singular elaboration of my colleague Mr Giarrusso, who, fortunately, did not succeed completely in his intention. Sometimes impriety should be sanctioned. We're for deflated measures. We fought for this in the last parliamentary term, and when it comes to anti-mafia, we should all be united. It has been said - and I absolutely agree - but so that it is not a rhetorical phrase, anti-mafia is not talk and distinctive; it is taking away the culture ground of anti-mafia. We are therefore to defend the law on the caporalate, that someone who extends on the release of the mafia has tried to put in trouble and to cancel [[Applause.]] Precisely because we are in favour of liberal democracy, against judicial populism and authoritarianism of all sorts, then we want there to be a chance of change. That's why it's a good thing that there's not a majority. It is good that there is no longer the past alliance of government between the League and our current allies. That is why we are asking for discontinuity. In conclusion, I appreciate, Minister, your call to the Coalition Government which is different from the Barter Government. The coalition government is the exaltation of politics in its points of equilibrium, in its highest elaboration. The government of the barter is the humiliation of politics and, at the end of the day, it is harmful to the country. [[Applause]] If there had been a political synthesis, maybe we wouldn't have had self-defense in exchange for a prescription ever. That must be said. [[Applause]] We hope for a "Stage 2" for justice: we need the reform of the criminal trial to have certain times and to return centrality to the trial as a place to defend itself by trying and contradictory. The guarantee of contradiction is an emblem of the culture of guarantees. It is also necessary to reform the civil process that affects the majority of people, even those who will never meet a criminal trial, are concerned with the economy and entrepreneurship of this country. Furthermore, if the reform of the penitentiary system had been completed, perhaps we would not have had all the problems we had in the health emergency. Finally, reform of the Supreme Council of the judiciary is necessary. It is not simply a question of reforming the electoral method. We are talking about reform, if we are to be serious, about the disciplinary and the method of choice for nominations. These criteria must be objective, transparent and stated, if we are to be serious. In conclusion, Mr President, national unity has often been invoked at such a difficult time as what we are going through. Since we recalled - and it could not be different - the culture of constitutional guarantees and principles, I would also like to recall the republican spirit, an unfinished path in the history of our country, linked to the program of our Constitution. The President of the Republic, when he calls us to our responsibilities, I believe he calls us to this republican spirit. Even when we talk about justice, principles, crises and the attitude that must hold majority and opposition, I believe that we must, we have responsibility and we can call ourselves to this republican spirit. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u57	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u58	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u59	BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, Minister, a circle is closed. It is useless to deny it: one of the reasons why the League has chosen to put an end to the experience of government is its omissive policy. You fail to say, you fail to do, you fail to decide, you fail to assume your responsibilities and, during the pandemic, you failed to do something very serious for me: you failed to help women because you blocked legislation that would allow it to do so. I'll document everything I said. [[Applause]] He omits to say: whenever someone criticizes her, she rebukes that she is the one who has tightened the penalties for the crimes of white collars (we too have voted them) but fails to say a piece of essential truth. Those penises you wrote with your right hand and deleted them with your left hand because you see, Minister, it is easy to write a sentence: you take the article, you raise the numeretto and the sanction is well written. The problem is that to apply the sentence you need final sentences, to have final sentences you need the trials and to have the trials you need a judicial system with certain times. How many times have you promised us the League before and the PD after you'd speed up the process. She didn't speed them up. You didn't do anything about the Code of Criminal Procedure. Do you know that in these days of the pandemic some referrals went to 2021? The date of 2021 means that you can also predict that, for a crime of a white collar, the white collar should be shot. But do you know how long before the shooting comes if the trial starts in 2021? In 2031. Therefore, writing down substantive rules and extending the time frame of the procedure means tearing down sanctions. I remind everyone (I always feel inaccuracies) that you are the only person responsible, together with the PD, for the entry into force of the evil rule that blocks the prescription. [[Applause.]] We fought against this rule and postponed it. [[Applause.]] We told you that this rule could only come into force for us after the criminal proceedings were accelerated. It is a fact that, as long as the League has been to the Government, that rule was not there; in the same way, it is a fact that I myself called it an atomic bomb. You failed to decide when it was essential to do so. I think you failed to decide at a dramatic time in our country, which is that of the pandemic (which was and is still there). In my opinion, there have certainly been government delays in blocking a number of activities, but there is a rather strange fact. At some point, finally, schools and stadiums closed down. Do you know what was left open? The courts. The stadiums and schools were closed, while the courts remained open even for ordinary trials. I would point out to you that young people are not going to the courts. In the middle of the pandemic I saw going to court, without any kind of organization, lawyers of all ages and even of eighty years, that is the categories at risk that you said you wanted to protect. The courts were closed long after that. I would remind you that Fabio Roia, President of the Autonomous Section for Prevention Measures of the Court of Milan, has stated that you have been urged several times to close the Court of Milan when there were already numerous cases of coronavirus and red areas. [[Applause.]] And what did you do when the solicitation came? Absolutely nothing, with the consequence that - this is a fact - lawyers, registry staff and magistrates got sick, including President Fabio Roia, who had urged her to close. Even later, when it was clear that it was necessary to close (and you closed), in fact you escaped, abdicating to your role and delegate to the judiciary every decision, with the consequence that you did not even consider a fact. You, who are the Government of Smart Working, forgot to allow lawyers to file the documents even with an e-mail. The lawyers from all over Italy, in full pandemic, therefore had to take the acts and go to court. You are the ones who say you have created the smart working, but you have not adopted any rules to allow it. Eighty-year-old lawyers went to court. This is a very serious matter for me. Then there's the fact that I was telling you first. I do not know how much you are aware that, when the rules of the Code of Criminal Procedure are suspended, very important rules are obviously suspended. Do you know that many women have been hostage to violence at home at this time? Do you know that these women who were looking for help were answered that it was useless for them to be heard in the immediateness of the three days because the terms of the code red are suspended? Do you know that you were able to suspend the terms of the code red, or you don't even know that? [[Comments]] There's nothing to speculate about! PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Colleagues, no one has been interrupted. Let's finish the surgery. Everyone said what he wanted and there was no interruption whatsoever. Please, Senator Bongiorno. BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). I am very sorry that, in the face of a clear defiance of your Minister, who is probably not even aware of this, a woman instead of protecting women gets up. Shame on you. [[Applause]] Prisons and release... [[Protests. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u60	Everyone has expressed their opinions and no one has been interrupted. Put on the mask and don't protest.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u61	Please continue, Senator Bongiorno. BONGIORNO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Overcrowding is an ancient problem, not ascribed to Minister Bonafede. But what is ascribed to him is yet another omission: he has done nothing to remedy it. For the sake of clarity, the prison population is made up of final prisoners and prisoners in preventive custody. We in the League believe that each of them has a right to health, but we also believe that she had a specific duty, faced with the possible compression of the right to health, to find alternative structures. What did he do instead? He did not find alternative structures and, while with one hand he tightens the penalty, with the other he opens the cells, letting out in advance prisoners who had definitive penalties. Then my doubt is as follows. We happen to be in a situation where it is essential, because we have not thought about it, to get someone out of prison; we have a prison population composed of permanent prisoners and presumed innocent prisoners, that is, prisoners in custody. A final prisoner means that the State, after ten years, has established its responsibilities; persons in custody means persons against whom there is often not even a judgment. If you had to make a choice, why didn't you let out those who were in protective custody, presumed innocent, and instead you brought out the finals? Can you explain what choice you made? [[Applause]] Today you tell us that you are not mad at the surveillance magistrate, but in fact I have heard repeated discharge of responsibility on the surveillance magistrates. Today you tell us that if the magistrates have applied the wrong rules, there is nothing you can do about it; you also added that these are rules of tens of years ago. Minister, you are not a passerby; if those rules do not work, you must change them. I'll give it to you, Minister. [[Applause]] In a busy search for remedies, you recently launched a commercial measure calling it "boss catcher" (or perhaps "applause catcher"). We have examined this measure called "boss catcher": it is the one by virtue of which you today claim to have put a little boss back in prison. There's one thing I can't understand: when they come out it's the magistrate's fault, because you don't have the competence, but when they come in, it's yours. Something's wrong. [[Applause]] The rule "catch boss" - I have looked at it - is a norm that adds nothing; it is an empty norm, which adds only a few opinions. Since there is little time left, I will just mention the matter of Matthew. Minister, there was a time when only one sigh of a co-worker of justice was enough to open trials and decapitate politicians and entrepreneurs. I think it was a dark time; it was a time when it was enough for Buscetta or Mutolo to say a last name and sigh to send people to prison, beheaded. It was a dark period; I do not believe the repentant. I suppose you know that an alarming fact has happened these days, of which few speak. A repentant, by chance one of those who then determined these convictions, declared that in reality, according to him, Di Matteo was not chosen at the DAP as the repercussions of the State-Mafia negotiation. He publicly declared it at Adnkronos. Is it true that a repentant at the base of a thousand trials has made such a statement? This is a very serious statement. I don't believe the repentant, Minister, I never believed it. But it's serious what Mutolo said. What are you going to do in front of this statement by Mutolo, representing the State? Will it take initiatives? If you are slandering someone, it is you who must take initiatives, because Mutolo claims that what happened with the failure to appoint Di Matthew was the result of a negotiation. Do we want to talk about it or, since we're talking about others, are these repentant people worth nothing? [[Applause.]] For me, repentant people are worthless, nothing, nothing. I hope they're not worth anything to you either. But you're taking initiatives. For many reasons, and not just for these reasons, the League will vote in favour of both motions. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u62	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u63	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u64	AIMI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, members of the Government, Minister for Justice, ladies and gentlemen, I was waiting to see what position Italy Viva would take. We had all listened very carefully to Senator Cucca's words, but we didn't understand where they would end up. Then we sent some explorers to understand, and Senator Cucca - I must say to his honor - declined only the rank and number of freshman. But then, when Senator Renzi took the floor, we understood precisely what would happen. But it's something we took frankly for granted. I must say this with the words that Dante used when he spoke of Count Ugolino, because here our President Renzi said: be Minister of Justice, not of the executioners. We thought it would be consequential; we thought that, after saying that the two motions were two motions that could be voted on, we would come to a different conclusion. Instead, what happened? Italy Viva will vote against our motions. Italy Viva applied that principle, that phrase: "more than the pain could the fasting." Because now there are appointments, and surely this is the situation in which the majority is debated and in which we know, however, there are many of you who have had to or will have to take the Maalox to vote against these measures. You see, the one who speaks to you was an executionist. It happened to me more than thirty-two years ago: I had the destiny to meet Enzo Tortora; it was a small seed, but it flourished. I became a lawyer, attended courtrooms; I did so for more than thirty years, Minister. I know what it means and I know what it means to look into the face of those who end up in the mincer of justice. I know what it means - because it has happened to so many people - to be in extremely unpleasant conditions. We belong to a political force that has suffered more than any other, fighting for freedom, a battle and legal persecution, which continues. I would also like to remind my friend Massimo Mallegni here. Since it is said that there are no innocent people in prison - someone has said it or maybe forgets it - Massimo Mallegni has come out innocent and clean, like many Italians. [[Applause.]] We must go back in time to remember also what happened in 1992, during the era of Tangentopoli: how many deaths, how much blood and how much innocence in those moments! Then tell your suggestors in toga, Minister, that there are not only those who are guilty in the garbage, but there are also the innocent, and a Minister of Justice would have a duty to deal mainly with them. [[Applause.]] We remain the only ones, together with a small patrol of believers, to defend the principles of the Constitution. We have not seen the purple scarves outside this House, the purple people; we have not seen the roundabouts. You, Minister, have repeatedly violated or forgot the fundamental articles of our Constitutional Charter, so much so that the Constitutional Court itself has challenged its laws. You are an unconstitutional minister, you are an unconstitutional minister, you are a minister who should look at the fundamental principles of our system, if you know them. However, we in this House are defending those principles, defending the right process and also the judiciary, which does not want political implications, which defends itself from those who pull it for the jacket and above all from those who would like to realize, within the judiciary itself - and they have already succeeded, because since the 1960s the attack on the institutions has started - the trespassing of the three powers and forgetting the tripartition of Montesquieu. There is a particular current, which has a vocation in this sense and it is that same current, which regulates the accounts also in political terms. Mr Minister, let me understand: your President-in-Office, who sits next to you, the Italian defender, brought the toga. From day to night, with a decree from the President of the Council of Ministers, 60 million people were housed at home. [[Applause]] Then she intervenes. Here comes the DAP and you can't say "I couldn't not know," because it's an ignoble principle, if applied in judicial terms. At a time when it is the policy that must be accountable, you, Minister, knew exactly what would happen. Moreover, it could have predicted, without great difficulty, the explosive situations of prisons. There is my question, which dates back to 28 January of this year, in which I announced what would happen on time. You knew, Minister. For us at Forza Italia these are matters that remain in the background, because the point is not even the issue of Di Matteo and the "cakes in the face" that you have pulled on live television, as well as the serious issue of prisons, with 70 escaped and 14 dead, all for overdose and 30 million euros spent only to start the reconstruction and restructuring work. I also want to tell you that we are at a starring distance from the justiceist positions, not only yours, but also Dr. Di Matteo. Minister, you have, however, performed a great miracle, the incredible miracle of Saint Alphonsus, which is not Alfonso Maria de' Liguori. [[Applause]] The miracle of Saint Alphonsus is to have cemented in a definitive way the alliance of the center-right and to have realized in its majority a situation of unbearableness. In our little Transatlantic Senate, in the Garibaldi room, you hear noise: I do not repeat what they say, but many of the senators who should support it, if they could do so freely, would not vote for it. That is a fact. In this miracle you managed to put together all: to reappear the front of lawyers and that of magistrates, university professors, students, the staff of chancellors, all against the infamous principles that your activity has accomplished. Mr Minister, I certainly do not hope that you will have to see criminal proceedings deflagrated in the living room. We love you, you are not an enemy for us, but a political opponent. For us enemies are the ideas, which manifests with so much protection, because we know where it wants to take us and we are very clear its path. I would like to tell you then that, when criminal proceedings deflate in the living room, it is not only the recipient, perhaps, of a guarantee notice, but it is also the people who are close to him, the loved ones, the elderly, who do not know how to justify friends who ask what happened: come on, tell me the truth, did it go like this? This is the case: the media's pillory. Sometimes those we find on the front pages of the newspapers, after a few months we find them in the obituaries. That's a shame. [[Applause.]] It is a shame that this House and you, Minister, are not fighting to put a stop to this. You should, on the contrary, have more attention. I told you that we are stellarly distant: you are a child of the culture of suspicion; you have a Jacobine culture, a sanctioning fanaticism, you are a Jansenist. I told you once before in this House. Giansenio was that heretic who believed that man was born corrupt and was absolutely irreditable: it is not so. But this has consequences, not small, huge sometimes. Think about what happened in Rome, where you don't do the Olympics out of fear you don't know what. Think about what happens in construction, in businesses, in procurement: no one does anything anymore, everything is blocked. In order to rebuild the Morandi bridge we had to make another law; this is the situation in which we debate. But we are guaranteed, we live in the culture of respect, we believe in a harmonious relationship with the State. As our President Berlusconi says, we are children of Greek-Roman and Jewish-Christian culture; we have brought civilization not only to Italy, but to Europe and the West. We have this in our DNA: we are guaranteed. When it's up to us - because the time comes when they're gonna let us vote... [[Applause]] When it comes to us, the Italians will see the true reforms and the authentic defense of freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u65	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u66	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u67	Mr Perilli (M5S). Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have great patience, I envy you, and, among other things, a great sense of duty and of institutions. I do not think it was difficult for those who follow us from home to make an opinion of what happened. Senator Bonino concluded the speech by saying that people must regain the sense of justice and trust in justice. I would add that this sense is recovered not by saying lies, not by using what has happened and not by trying to violate a fundamental rule that I believe applies also in politics: that when you have the strength and courage to say certain things, you have to have honesty behind you in order to be able to say it. That was not the case. [[Applause.]] I'll explain. I could say, almost confidently: Minister, what you couldn't say, I can say, because that's what I think. We must be clear and fair in relation to the history of what has happened and what has been. Senator Bongiorno mentioned a negotiation. I believe that the dialogue between Di Matteo and Bonafede had exegesis that perhaps go to the fourth lemma of the vocabulary, to try to find a place for the interpretations they wanted to give. [[Applause.]] Everything happened. On the basis of a telephone call on a television broadcast, everything you wanted to see inside this story has been reconstructed, but the luring - the Minister is right - on a contingency and above all a interference of the mafia cannot be accepted. This is in fact an offense not to a Minister, but to the entire country that the Minister represents. [[Applause.]] He's been summoned for everything. Senator Paragon even summoned the devil and Captain America to this House; he spoke about everything, but not about the context, not the merit, that is that history and the positions, which are well represented here, are different. Senator Renzi said well: we are not like you with regard to these issues and we have always demonstrated it. Therefore, these motions must be read exactly contrary to what is said. The distrust is not because of what has been done about street sweeps, for preventing violence, for introducing very heavy sanctions for violence against women and the Daspus for life for the corrupt in the public administration. Motions must be read precisely because we have done these things [[Applause]] and who speaks in a certain way is who in the history of this country has facilitated them from the normative point of view and has done nothing to keep the brake. [[Applause.]] I am pleased that we are talking about the negotiation, but I think it is not aware, because to me the term negotiation reminds me of the State-Mafia negotiation that took place during the Governments of League and Force Italy [[Comments. Applause]] : these are the governments of when they wanted to abolish articles 41-a, 416-a, life imprisonment, repentant, interceptions: this happened [[Applause]] And there are sentences. Senator Bongiorno, you are a lawyer like me and you know very well what is written in the judgment of Dell'Utri, the founder of Forza Italia: it says what you were saying and you have the courage to speak, to teach us the lesson? [[Applause.]] Why not turn this renewed spirit of indignation to what has happened, not to measures that go in one direction? Matthew and Bonafede are on the same side and it has been clearly stated. [[Applause.]] There may be misunderstandings, but they are driving the country forward in the struggle that has marked them. [[Applause]] Even Minister Bonafede's most passionate detractor can say anything, but he cannot say that there has not been a fight against the Mafia: the Minister has explained it point by point. Among other things, today I also have the pleasure to say - and this denies all your reconstructions - that Franco Cataldo will return to prison [[Applause]] , who was sentenced to life imprisonment for competition in the kidnapping of Giuseppe Di Matteo, as he returned to prison Bonura. [[Applause]] That's the facts. It's not talk. These are the facts, these are the decrees that have been signed. I do not know if any of the signatories really read the text of the motions, but in the first signature of Senator Bonino, the Minister is portrayed as the one who has carried out a tampering with the impartiality of justice, I repeat, a tampering with the impartiality of justice: we are before a dictator, not even a Minister of the Republic, because only a dictator can do this and not the laws that have been.. [[Comments]] Let us be serious, if those who make certain laws tamper, as they say, with the impartiality of justice, the President of the Republic - I remind you - would not have promulgated them. [[Applause]] , so you are also saying to the President of the Republic, who has a very important function, who is an accomplice in the portrait you have done. The motion also says that the Minister's action would go against the principles of legal civilization and that it would facilitate media deception. Is Minister Bonafede facilitating the media's doom, he who has been put to the media's doom? [[Applause]] You have to have a sense of things; even in the attacks you have to be appropriate, you have to be on the piece, you cannot go in an instrumental way to hit the government and this is the second political point. In fact, this instrumentality must be read, because this is only an attack on the whole Government that is here and responds to it with its own presence, with the courage of its own work. [[Applause]] One demonstration is that, during the debate on the motions of individual distrust of Minister Bonafede, there was talk about the economy, finance, everything that is being done, what the government has not done and what it should do. It is clear what is behind it and that it finds pieces of this House in a cross-cutting way that would like to throw this Government down, but this Government will throw it down the citizens, when and as they say, you will not throw it down. Is that clear? [[Applause]] The lessons can not be heard: if you have found this spirit of legality and opportunity - it is said that even the cleanest people must not have the shadow of suspicion - let the anti-Mafia Commission discharge those who had a request for arrest. [[Applause]] Make this gesture, have courage, have courage. [[Applause]] In fact, there will be someone among you who hears the matter, who knows how to carry it forward, who can say that it is good for them to resign. [[Applause]] I do not go down on staff, but this is a political aspect: that there is such a situation in the Anti-Mafia Commission is a very serious thing and not a word about it, not even a word because you are entrenched behind the guarantee. Senator Unterberger said well: you, who have always talked about judicial fanaticism and everything else, now reconstruct the story as you please. After opposing Di Matthew in every way, at any time, you venture today to define what he would say to Minister Bonafede. [[Applause.]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is intellectual and political dishonesty. [[Applause. Comments.]] The country must know it; it must know who is speaking; it must know who must defend itself and know how this story will go on. [[Applause.]] Minister, we will do everything we can to support you. They will speak the laws, that is true: the House will do this day; there has been this debate, but the laws will remain, except that someone, as has already happened, will not try to cancel them as you did with the financing of the parties. [[Applause.]] Does the League have the courage to speak as well? He explained the 49 million euros because Italian citizens want to know. [[Comments. Applause.]] Give explanations about the Arata amendment; give explanations about how you conducted these Governments with Forza Italia, when you abolished and tried to abolish all the laws that anti-Mafia magistrates desperately tried to carry out. You've made a great union, a great alliance. But don't say a word about this. Senator Salvini, do you say anything about this? That is the reality. The reality is unique: Minister Bonafede has the right, if nothing else, to be respected and these illations do not only harm a minister, but a country, in all colors that are represented in this Government. [[Stretch applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u68	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u69	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u70	Mr Quegliariello (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Minister, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I do not personally believe that I need to leave to the proceedings of this House the sidereal distance which, from a cultural and political point of view, separates me from you, Minister of the "endless" trial and the suspicion as an antechamber of the unhappy decline. But, Minister, there is one thing. The motion of distrust that triggered this debate is inspired by the statements of a pm, which advanced through TV hypotheses and reconstructions aimed at objecting to the choice of entrusting to a person other than him the guide of the DAP. The motion seems to endorse the union of one representative of another power regarding the exercise of government prerogatives. Even on Dr. Di Matteo, as on you, Minister, I have a very clear judgment and I do not change it, but that is not the point. The question is that the only idea that the judicial authority can control the choices of the Executive inficia centuries of civilization built by Montesquieu on the principle of separation. So, Minister, if you can question something at this juncture, it is that you have embarrassedly stammered at those improper accusations which, on the other hand, should have sent back to the sender by calling for the intervention of the MSC, as the President of the Senate has rightly done. The motion of censure, therefore, did not agree with us and the intention was not to vote on it. With only one strong remora, because in politics any choice is empirical and approximate. You choose approximately membership of a group; let alone voting on a motion. The remora was to subtract our vote from an initiative that could have put into crisis a Government that, in our opinion, is doing the evil of Italy at a very difficult time. Senator Bonino's motion removed us from this embarrassment. Against Mr Bonafede we have today a non-guaranteeist motion and a guaranteed motion. And, apart from the fact of principle, because of the iron logic of numbers, we must also point out that, if you, Minister, were to fall - it is obviously a third type hypothesis - it would be easier for this to happen for the second rather than for the first motion. It is good that this is so, in order to avoid that if there is a government other than this, as we hope, the prosecutor on duty can make claims about the prerogatives of other powers and quote a very embarrassing precedent in his support. For these reasons, more than a dissent, I also express an explanation of vote on behalf of my colleagues Massimo Berutti and Paolo Romani, announcing the non participation in the vote of the IDEA members and Cambiamo! by the Forza Italia Group on the non-guaranteeist motion and a strong vote in favour of the guarantee motion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u71	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u72	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u73	CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Mr President, the story of the Minister of Justice is unfortunately a clear demonstration of the hypocrisy of this Government and its absolute inability to offer serious answers to the needs of its citizens. The Mafia struggle was to be waged and the Mafia bosses were released, as well as the fight against the strong powers was to be waged and managers or presumed to be such as Descalzi and Arcuri were confirmed, just to give some examples. Not to mention what has been done on the TAP and the TAV, the F-35, the condonons to Ischia no longer speaks of, or still the environmental disaster in my beloved Puglia with the useless and criminal cut of thousands and thousands of splendid olive trees and millennia, not to mention the ruin of Ilva. On the question of Minister Bonafede we are in the grotesque: Of Matthew, symbol of the 5 Star Movement and the fight against the Mafia, who is humiliated and mortified for the benefit of an anonymous official, also related to Minister Hope. The justiceism that denies itself, that is only true for others and that therefore is worth nothing. The release of the bosses is a shameful scandal: both the director of the DAP and the chief of staff have resigned. Inversely, if he had been a colleague of Forza Italia, of the League or of the Brothers of Italy, Congressman Bonafede would have gone up to the roof of Montecitorio to wave the flag of the anti-mafia and ask for his resignation, obviously with a direct Facebook orchestrated by the usual Casalino. Honestly, I feel disgust about all this. I believe that for the sake of consistency and institutional respect, Minister Bonafede should have resigned immediately. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u74	Senator, will you stop yelling? It seems to me that when Senator Perilli spoke there was a tombal silence.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u75	[[Comments.]] I don't like double standards. CHAMPOLILLO (Mixed). Thank you, President. As I said, I believe that for the sake of consistency and institutional respect, Minister Bonafede should have resigned immediately; he did not do so because obviously, in his eyes, the chair of Minister is worth much more than the dignity and respect of the citizens. I'm so sorry. That is why I shall vote for mistrust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u76	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote in dissent from my Group.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u77	I take note of that and give you the floor.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u78	BONINO (Misto-PEcEB). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that we will calm down for a moment. To clarify to some, More Europe and the vast majority of the other signatories are not part of either the majority or the government. We have another equally important role to play, that of responsible and constructive opposition, whenever possible, and you know, Mr President, that we have demonstrated this many times. Mr Minister, you, with a flood of figures, have responded in particular to the objections of motion 230, but on the fundamental issues raised by us, you have confirmed the continuation of the political line that has been implemented so far. He confirmed this on prescriptions and interceptions; he confirmed his policy that we do not feel we share, because he does not respond to our vision of a rule of law. Please, Minister, do yourself a favor and do us a favor. Don't say that there are no innocent people in prison in Italy anymore. I heard it. Don't say it again. [[Applause.]] I ask you, please, this is an insult to thousands of people and families (I also give you the figures) who have suffered an unjust detention: in recent years it has been about 20,700, a thousand per year. I am talking about unjust detention: do you know the human, reputational costs, the emotional and economic costs, the destruction of businesses and families? Do the favor, change step because just justice serves the citizens, our country and also economic recovery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u79	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u80	For what? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). The order of business, Mr President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. What order of business might be different? THE RUSSIAN (FdI). If you let me tell you, I'll tell you. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, the system we have decided to adopt unanimously is to vote alphabetically in groups of fifty senators. I wanted to warn the President and the Assembly correctly that on motion 235, if the first is not adopted, the Brothers of Italy Group will vote in full during the second call, to verify the attitude of part of the majority, even if it is now quite clear. We are therefore right to say that we will vote in the second call; with this we are absolutely aware of the diversity of the two motions, on the second of which we have a partially positive and partially inconsistent attitude. Therefore, Mr President, I think I have correctly explained the reasons for my speech. There was an unjustified suspicion.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u81	I'm sorry, I don't understand. Since the second call is always planned and anyway, I do not understand why you felt the need for this clarification. For those who are not present, there is the second call for the second vote. Now let's get to the first.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u82	I'll tell you right away, Mr. President. Having warned you that in the second vote we will all be voting on the second vote you call, in choosing the 50 that go to vote, you can take that into account if you want. That's the reason.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u83	Everyone does what he thinks.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u84	In accordance with Article 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Article 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the nominal vote by appeal of motion No 230, presented by Senators Romeo, Ciriani, Bernini and other senators. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his place, with entry into the hemicycle staggered to groups of fifty every ten minutes according to the alphabetical order, starting with the senators members of the Government, with the exception of Senator Calderoli, who will vote first and then replace me. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I invite the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. (Senator Secretary Carbone and then Senator Secretary Ginetti appeal). (In the course of voting, they take over the Presidency - at 1.42 p.m. - at 1.42 p.m., at 1.42 p.m.) - 14.28 -). The senators answered: Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Augusori Bagnai, Balboni, Barboni, Barbaro, Battistoni, Berardi, Bergesio, Bernini, Biasotti, Binetti, Bongiorno, Borghese, Borgoni, Bossi Simone, Brizziarelli, Bruzzone Calandrini, Calderoli, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cantù, Carbone, Casolati, Causin, Centinario, Cesaro, Ciampolillo, Ciriani, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, de Bertoldi, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis Faggi, Fantetti, Giazzolari, Fazzone, Ferrero, Floris, Fregolent, Fusco Galliani, Gallone, Garnero Santanche, Gasparri, Gahedini, Gehedini, Ghiri, Gir. Senators say no: Abate, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Campagna, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Angelo, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Marzio, Di Micco, Ferrari, Ferraari, Ferrazzi, Floridia Locchi, Donno, Durnwalder Endrizzi, Errani, Evangelista Faraone, Fattori, Fede, Fedeli, Fenu, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, The senators shall refrain from: Drago (Senators Berutti, Cangini, Quagliariello and Romans declare that they do not participate in the vote). PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote on motion 230, of individual distrust of the Minister of Justice, presented by Senators Romeo, Ciriani, Bernini and other senators: [[Senators present 297 Senators voting 292 Majority 146 Favorables 131 Contrari 160 Absent 1]] The Senate doesn't approve. President. - I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. In accordance with Article 94, second paragraph, of the Constitution and pursuant to Article 161, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, the nominal vote by appeal of motion No 235, presented by Senator Bonino and other senators. As established by the Conference of Leaders, each Senator will vote from his place, with entry into the hemicycle staggered to groups of fifty every ten minutes according to the alphabetical order, starting from the senators members of the Government. The senators in favour of the motion of distrust will answer yes; the opposing senators will answer no; the senators who intend to abstain will speak accordingly. I urge the Senator Secretary to proceed with the appeal. GINETTI, secretary, make the appeal. The senators: Aimi, Alderisi, Alessandrini, Arrigoni, Agussori Bagnai, Barachini, Barbaro, Barboni, Battistoni, Berardi, Bergesio, Bernini, Berutti, Biasotti, Binetti, Bongiorno, Bonino, Borghesi, Borgonzoni, Bossi Simone, Briziarelli, Bruzzone Calderoli, Caliendo, Caligiuri, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Carbone, Casolati, Causin, Centinario, Cesaro, Ciampolillo, Corti, Craxi Dal Mas, Damiani, De Bonis, De Poli, De Siano, De Vecchis Faggisino, Fantetti, Fazzone, Ferrero, Florisu, Fregolenti, Marinsco Galliani, Gallone, Gasparri, Ghedini, Giero, Giro, Grassi Iwobiardo, Luci Lonardo, Lucidio, Luci, Lunedi, Maure, Maure, Maure, Lune Mariana, Maure, Maure, Maure, Maure, Marlori, Marlori, Marlori, Maureti, Senators say no: Abate, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Astorre, Auddino Bellanova, Biti, Boldrini, Bonifazi, Botto, Bressa, Buccarella Campagna, Casini, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Catalfo, Cioffi, Cirinna, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corbetta, Crimi, Croatti, Crucioli, Cucca D'Alfonso, D'Arienzo, De Lucia, De Petris, Dell'Olio, Dessì, Di Girolamo, Di Micco, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi, Floridia Lovini, Garrudi, Garrani, Evangelista Faraone, Fattori, Fede, Fedeli, Ferrara, Ferrara, Ferrari, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi, Ferrazzi, Floriazzi, Flori PRESIDENT. - The debate is I declare the vote closed and invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the counting of votes. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). I declare the result of the roll-call vote on motion 235, of individual distrust of the Minister of Justice, presented by Senator Bonino and other senators: [[Senators present 302 Senators voting 301 Majority 142 Favorables 124 Contrari 158 Absent 19]] The Senate doesn't approve. [[Applause]] I am suspending the sitting until 4.05 p.m. to make sure that the House is sanitized. (The sitting was suspended at 3.38 p.m. and resumed at 4.16 p.m.) Colleagues, I am verifying, through audio, whether an expression has been used that certainly does not suit this House by Senator Giarrusso, who I regret not being here now. I heard it on television. I didn't hear it in the Chamber. I'm sorry and I'm sorry no one reported it to me. I will now check this through audio, because it is unacceptable for expressions such as those used by Senator Giarrusso to be used in this House, which I shall go to check. [[Applause.]] I repeat, I heard you on the news and I'm sorry I didn't hear you here.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u85	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, exactly twenty-one years ago Professor Massimo D'Antona, distinguished jurist, consultant of the Ministry of Labour, fell victim to a mortal ambush put in place by a commando adherent to the terrorist organization of the New Red Brigades. Nine were the gunshots that reached Professor D'Antona a few steps from his home, the last of which exploded when his body was already lying on the ground. Massimo D'Antona was a mild, honest citizen, a educated and sensitive man, a university teacher who taught with passion and dedication had put his skills, his competence and his experience at the service of institutions and the community to protect the work of many citizens; that work which is the cornerstone of our democracy, that work which is a fundamental right and the first instrument of social and economic dignity for millions of families. His was a cold execution, premeditated and carefully planned in every detail. Remembering Massimo D'Antona today, on this sad anniversary, is first of all an opportunity to renew the closeness of the Senate and of all Italians to his wife Olga, daughter Valentina, family and all friends. But this moment of our recollection must also represent an opportunity to reflect on the duties that, as institutions, we have towards every citizen and the future that we must guarantee to our country. In fact, no ideological claim can ever justify the criminal project that led to the murder of Massimo D'Antona. Today Italy is going through a serious and complex economic and social emergency, with millions of citizens who have lost or risk losing their jobs and hundreds of thousands of families increasingly poorer. It is an emergency that we have a duty to face with awareness, foresight, sharing and a common sense of responsibility, to give confidence and hope to citizens, because it is in poverty, malaise, inequality, social injustice that matures the seed of anger, disorder, conflict and violence. Defeating this danger, protecting work, protecting the dignity of citizens must therefore today be our common priority; we owe it to the sacrifice of Massimo D'Antona and many other valuable Italians. In memory of Massimo D'Antona, I therefore invite the Assembly to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u86	Senators, as is sadly known, last Friday died in Bologna, the city that had long adopted him, Master Ezio Bosso. I would like to remind you today on the solemnity of this legislative House, in the conviction that Parliament, which is the voice of all Italians, has a duty to pay tribute to the memory of one of its fellow citizens not only for the prestige it has given to the country, but for the incredible lesson of love, culture and life that it has left to all of us. Ezio Bosso was born in Turin and since his youngest age he has worked with commitment and tireless dedication to affirm his talent. The success achieved at national level, as well as abroad, has been the most deserved recognition of so many sacrifices, so much study, so much passion. The terrible illness that struck him just forty years old and that inexorably consumed him in the physicist never took away the desire to emotionalize, to tell and to tell himself through music. Until he had the strength, until the last day, Ezio Bosso never stopped playing, composing music or directing some of the most important Italian and international orchestras. Speaking of himself, he said: I don't know if I'm happy, but I keep the moments of happiness tight. And when he played or held the wand, the disease stood aside and gave way to the genius, the talent, the smile, a smile of joy, a smile of love. With the same skill, Ezio Bosso directed the very complicated orchestra of his existence, leaving us the patrimony of a work played with the instruments of humanity, poetry, the daily ability to reinvent oneself, to rise up, to start again; a heritage in which music is not the refuge from pain, but is a house for the soul, which transforms pain, shapes and makes it a universal message of creativity, enthusiasm and courage. In remembrance of Master Ezio Bosso, I therefore call on this House to grieve the pain of family and friends and to observe a minute's silence. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u87	The next item is the debate on proposals for a preliminary ruling on draft law No 1811 already approved by the House of Deputies. I call Senator Augussori to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP1.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u88	Mr President, the question of constitutional legitimacy is now more important than ever. Article 1 of the measure in question contains a list of all measures which can be taken to contain the contagion and spread of Covid-19. Well, in the name of the supreme need to protect public health, in its collective and individual form, it is also possible to limit constitutionally guaranteed freedoms, but always within the limits and in accordance with the provisions of our Constitution. In fact, the Constitutional Charter admits the possibility of restrictions on personal freedom only in the cases and methods provided for by law, as stated in Article 13, as well as restrictions on freedom of movement for health or safety reasons, as stated in Article 16. Article 13 of the Constitution recognises personal freedom as inviolable and provides for the exclusive competence of ordinary legislation for its discipline. Article 16, in affirming the freedom to move and reside in the national territory without limits, entrusts to ordinary legislation the exclusive competence to regulate the forms of restriction. The central issue, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely this: ordinary law can intervene in extraordinary cases. In fact, in Article 77, our Constitution provided for a specific regulatory instrument to be adopted under conditions of necessity and urgency: the decree-law. This act is submitted, precisely because of its importance of intervention in extraordinary situations, to the scrutiny of the Head of State and, above all, to the scrutiny of Parliament called upon to convert it. Parliament is the supreme legislative body and the Constitution provides for its involvement in exceptional situations, even to deliberate the state of war and grant the government the necessary powers, as stated in Article 78 of the Constitution. Quoting the President of the Council, I would like to stress that the Italian Republic has gone through various situations of emergency and crisis, from the years of the armed struggle to the most recent ones of the economic and financial crisis, all without ever suspending the constitutional order, but recognizing within it the instruments suitable to modulate the constitutional principles according to specific circumstances. The Civil Protection Code does not provide for the resolution of the state of emergency with a prior explanation to Parliament. Therefore, the Chambers are not given the power to formulate guidelines in order to guide government action, for a question probably of immediate intervention. This is all the more reason why Parliament must be involved in the follow-up measures to the state of emergency. It is the Constitution that entrusts exclusive competence to ordinary legislation to regulate the limitation to freedoms, where necessary. So far, the President of the Council has chosen to intervene in order to restrict or even abolish certain constitutional freedoms through the instrument of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers, a secondary legislative source, of a regulatory nature, which has no legal force. This method adopted is illegitimate and acts in spite of the principle of the hierarchy of sources, which is the foundation of Italian constitutional law and which provides for an absolute reserve of law, with regard to the limitations of freedom. The measure under consideration is unlawful, because it wants to guarantee to the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers the possibility of intervening on the rights guaranteed by Article 13 of the Constitution, on personal freedom, Article 16 on freedom of movement, Article 17 on the freedom to meet, Article 18 on freedom of association, Article 19 on freedom of worship, Articles 33 and 34 on the freedom of teaching and education, as well as Article 41 on the freedom of economic initiative. Article 17 of the Constitution recognises the freedom of all citizens to meet peacefully: individual freedom for collective use allows the free exchange of opinions and people and the development of the community. If an administrative measure can limit the freedom to meet, in the name of the supreme protection of public health, and if such a measure can be issued by only one person, without requiring Parliament's approval, which is the only body representative of the popular will, then there is a danger of seriously compromising the democratic structure of our Republic. The conversion of this decree-law is a dangerous precedent in which Parliament is exonerated from its legislative and representative function and is concentrated in the hands of only one man - with the famous full powers - the possibility of issuing restrictive measures of constitutionally guaranteed freedoms. Sanate the illegality of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, issued from March, clearly unconstitutional, through the decree-law in the process of conversion, is in itself an unconstitutional act, which would like to elevate the legislative weakness recognized to the administrative acts of the President of the Council to the point of transforming them into measures having force of law, able to affect constitutional freedoms, protected by the reserve of law of the Constitution. All this is manifestly illegitimate and unconstitutional. [[Applause.]] (16.33 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u89	I call Senator Modena to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling by Mr QP2.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u90	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that undersecretary Sileri is here, since I would also like to make a reference to what he said recently in an interview with the question I am about to raise. The substantive point in the question referred for a preliminary ruling is political. We had a state of emergency declared on 31 January and no one was frankly aware of it, until all the measures at the end of February and March arrived. The state of emergency to date is blocked at 31 July, because many constitutionalists have risen, as there was also the temptation to arrive with the state of emergency at the end of the year. The state of emergency cannot eternally justify the issuing of decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers and of measures restricting personal freedom, worship and enterprise, as has been so far, without a prior passage in Parliament. In fact, Parliament saw the state of emergency declared on 31 January, as I said earlier, and although the alert data were obviously there, it was not called upon to speak on this and it attended a series of press conferences, which were then translated, after two or three days, into decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers. In essence, therefore, we are in a situation that cannot be tolerated by Parliament at all. We very often ask Parliament to give its opinion and give its own guidelines in advance. But in this case it is not a reminder of a way, because decisions have been taken on the basis of data of which we have absolutely no complete knowledge; they have been taken on the basis of a technical-scientific committee, whose documents - at least from what we read a few days ago - are not even known to the Deputy Minister of Health. A number of measures have been taken, including in relations with the Regions, for which, on the one hand, there has been a formal war with the Regions and, on the other, guidelines have been drawn up which have then been the subject of a night negotiation. All this, without Parliament touching the ball. We have been faced with further obscure criteria, which are those of monitoring, which will then determine other decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, I presume, or at least other decisions more or less borne by the Regions, assumed not well known as. In the only act in which I found at least the signature of the Deputy Minister, last week, Lombardy was equal to Umbria and Molise as a level of alarm. I said that the question referred for a preliminary ruling is for a serious political basis, because this situation is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because, upstream, Parliament has not expressed itself on a serious state of emergency and because the measures are taken in the light of fanciful opinions (not even fantomatic) given by bodies, technical committees or staff, which are not verifiable and whose contents are not even known to Parliament, so most of the decisions are covered as technical opinions. This is not tolerable, it is not constitutionally founded. The attempt to extend this state of emergency was also worrying, and for this reason we argue that the situation is gravely unconstitutional. We therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary for Parliament to be aware of a situation which goes beyond the limits of constitutionality. You think that since the beginning of the emergency so many decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers have been issued, despite the fact that the centre-right had also asked to proceed with a reorder, that the reference to the numbers is lost: 23, 25 February, 1, 8, 4, 9, 11, 3, 22 March, 10, 16 April. All this by compressing substantial freedoms on the basis of documentation which Parliament does not know, without Parliament expressing itself either in advance or in terms of information. That is why we believe that the question of constitutionality should be approved. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u91	One representative per Group will be able to speak during the debate for no more than ten minutes each.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u92	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u93	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u94	STEFANI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, we are in the process of examining the question of the preliminary ruling and we anticipate our position on yet another measure presented in the form of a decree-law. We have been discussing decree-laws extensively in this House for years now for a constant practice that comes to abuse an instrument that is provided for in the Constitution and that has specific requirements and prerequisites, those of necessity and urgency, but that indeed is constantly being used by the Government in order to legislate itself instead of what should be the deputy, that is to say the legislator par excellence. Parliament's drafts of legislation are now becoming increasingly small: there is an increasing number of government initiatives and the use of this type of measure. Never, as in this period, have the decree-laws been used, including No. 19 of which we are talking, which is part of a long sequence at the time of the serious emergency and health crisis that we are experiencing. They are decree-laws that overlap and accompany a very long series of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, ministerial decrees and regional ordinances, all of which, ladies and gentlemen, create a legislative situation of great confusion, which has also caused its problem of interpretation and application of the rules. Even just because of a fact of succession of laws over time, it is a matter of being able to frame the norm provided for by the decree-law and then maybe that possibly modified in the law of conversion, contemplating it with the new law, perhaps with a new decree-law that intersects and overlaps in the same periods. That is what we have seen about certain measures, particularly in the Justice Commission, where, even recently, at the hearing, it was denounced that there is really a problem, as well as contradictions with the same measures. It is inevitable, however, when there is a continuous, almost weekly proliferation. As Mr Modena and Mr Augussori have pointed out before me, it creates serious problems at institutional level, as well as constitutional, the use of the decrees of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, rules that come precisely with a regulation and therefore of a certainly sub-primary rank to affect constitutional rights, if not to foresee, as we have all seen, a derogation from the same constitutional principle. It is a great confusion that we have said, as it is evident - I want to emphasize for the truth only one passage of the entire provision, but that in reality highlights the problems at the constitutional and institutional level - in article 2, paragraph 3, of the decree-law, which reads: It is without prejudice to the effects produced and the acts adopted on the basis of decrees and orders issued pursuant to Decree-Law No 6 of 23 February 2020, converted, with amendments, by Law No 13 of 5 March 2020, or pursuant to Article 32 of Law No 833 of 23 December 1978. What are we talking about here? At a time when this rule is foreseen it is clear and transparent that we are trying to heal the effects produced according to a previous standard, thereby expressly recognizing that there was a vulnus, a problem, because otherwise this sort of sanatoria would not have been necessary. But there is more than one reader, more than one interpreter who already poses major problems on this point too, and there is already the doubt that this sanatoria can shelter the rules and measures - including sanctions - issued following the application of these rules, this to create a confusion, as I said, not only in the interpreter, but precisely for the citizen and for the whole institutional structure. In fact, we must all remember that at the beginning of the whole chain of positive law there can only be the Constitution and that only the Constitution can give legitimacy to the issue of a number of legislative measures with certain forms and consequences. Many have raised problems and have made reflections on the fact that the principles of health protection and primum living can lead to a derogation of constitutional principles. Indeed, the values of life and health are already positive and are already constitutional rules and it is only to the Constitution that we can refer to. Thinking of different reasons of state or of different rights of necessity that can allow a Government, a President of the Council, to issue a certain type of rules will create a very large question mark. What has been achieved in recent months with this management of policy and emergency with the use of a certain type of measures is a very serious constitutional breakup. It is a very serious institutional break; it has been seen in the discussion and debate between the Government and the Regions on the possibility, as was said before, of suspending with their regional ordinances possibly constitutional rights or even reaching derogations. We've come to some emerging decree-laws. We are already beginning to read about the writings of scholars and professors who talk about these emerging decrees-laws. Can the state of emergency replace the identification of the requirements of necessity and urgency referred to in Article 77 of the Constitution? Can we consider the emerging crisis and a health crisis as a sort of urgency and necessity for tabulas or do they have to be motivated every time? We believe we adhere to this second solution: it must be justified why a decree-law is used and not another form. We must also remember - we have seen this in recent months - that Parliament can work, as we are doing now and as we have always done. Parliament could, therefore, be convened immediately; it could immediately examine the measures and it could be avoided to the point where this House has become a mere office for the conversion of decree-laws. [[Applause.]] We must have the opportunity to intervene on these rules and to take back the legislative function. My colleague, Mrs Modena, referred to how the content of the measures have been prepared and planned by these committees. These are committees whose rules of engagement we do not know and whose method of operation we do not know. They are not bodies that legislate, nor are they bodies that incorporate decisions. That means that we need to re-appropriate our function. Let us remember with the few words with which I conclude the intervention that someone had said that so much can be done, that great sacrifices can be endured by virtue of superior principles. We remember, however, that a rule that states that good must be renounced in order to save well is just as false and contradictory as that which, in order to protect freedom, requires to renounce freedom. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u95	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u96	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u97	CALIENDO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, this decree-law introduces a new legal figure in our country, in the sense that I have always studied and known the decree-law that enters into force when it is passed and is law unless ratified by Parliament. Then there is the legislative decree, which is the decree that is issued by the executive authority by delegation of Parliament. Here, however, we are faced with a decree that sets out a series of acts that have been adopted since the first contagion occurred in our country, with a series of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that are regularized, even ex post. What is the legal nature of this new decree is difficult to comprehend, except that which, faced with an emergency, has adopted instruments that are not entirely correct, which have kept Parliament out of any assessment. This measure, however, gives me the opportunity to have an overview of what has happened, from which it emerges that 31 January is proclaimed the state of national health emergency for six months. Did you, Mr President, hear what elements allowed the government to anticipate such a long national health emergency? Six months, not three months, so there's got to be some pretty serious information about the government to get to that. We don't know anything. It refers, then, that the first decree-law was there on 23 February and then the question is: in the intermediate period, from the moment of the declaration of the national emergency to the first decree-law, what activities were carried out by the Government in order to acquire the various necessary safety devices, the lack of which then led to the death of many doctors on the territory? This decree-law contains a set of aspects not so much for the future, because for the future it merely includes in other rules what some decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers had already identified, so it is an ex post arrangement. Can We Be Satisfied? I would say no, because honestly I would have had the need - I do not see anyone in the Government who has a specific competence - to know what led the Council of Ministers to take that decision, because you understand very well, with your experience, that at the time when a health emergency is being decided for six months, it means that there has been a number of indications that have not been given to Parliament. This is a problem, because Parliament is not in a position not necessarily to "make fleas," but to guarantee that democratic control over any activity of the Government that guarantees citizens the existence of an institution that the Constitution wanted to guarantee precisely that control, which does not have as its aim to launch great attacks on those who are in government (who then did not realize what they had to), but only, in fact, that of democratic control. We don't have that chance. If we look at Article 1, it sets up a whole series of conditions which had been identified in the various decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. That's all we know. We do not know why we did not even have the opportunity to meet immediately in order to be able to approve the decree-laws, because I do not have to teach anyone that the Government had the possibility, with three or four decree-laws, to avoid all the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. Every week he could approve a decree-law, as then in some cases it was done. For this reason, Mr President, I believe that the purpose of this measure is to settle a fact which has taken place. However, we fail to fulfil our task if we do not have the strength to ask the Commission to inform Parliament what elements it had on 31 January and what elements later justified an inertia of the Government until first infected, which was serious because then the costs of medical devices increased terribly and no longer available. For these reasons, Mr President, I shall vote against Decree-Law No 19 of 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u98	Pursuant to Rule 78 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the nominal vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred to the Senator Romeo and other Senators (QP1) and Senator Bernini and other Senators (QP2), referring to the bill n. 1811. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u99	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1811, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Parrini, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u100	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are examining Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March 2020, of which I am going to give a brief illustration. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u101	I would kindly ask the House to allow Senator Parrini to speak in an atmosphere of silence, where this is possible. Those who must turn away do so without making assemblies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u102	Mr Parrini, rapporteur. Mr President, thank you for this kindness. The decree-law is a very important act because it is the act that outlines the legal framework that surrounds the adoption of measures against the pandemic by Covid-19. It is a measure that almost entirely replaces Decree-Law No 6, issued on 23 February 2020, which has also been mentioned in a number of interventions prior to mine in the debate on the question referred for a preliminary ruling. The measure intervenes... [[Brusio.]] I find it difficult to explain the measure in these circumstances, Mr President.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u103	I am trying to bring the House back to the education it deserves, Senator Parrini; I hope that colleagues will be sympathetic in allowing you to carry out your report. We have now come to understanding; this should be due, colleagues.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u104	Mr Parrini, rapporteur. Mr President, I would also like to pay attention to the fact that having a great desire to speak on the subject and not being able to do so by presenting the report, I would at least like to see silence. The measure almost entirely replaces Decree-Law No 6 of 23 February and intervenes significantly on Article 35 of Decree-Law No 9 of 2 March. Our Constitution, as is well known, imposes a reserve of law for the introduction in special cases of limitations to certain rights of freedom, justified by prominent constitutional interests, such as that of health protection, which - I would like to remind you - is mentioned in Article 32 of the Constitution as a fundamental right of the individual and the interest of the community. The measure is composed, in the version that has been transmitted to us by the Chamber, where some modifications have been made to the initial document, which bears the signatures of the President of the Council and Ministers Hope, Bonafede and Gualtieri, of 8 articles against the 5 original articles and lists all types of measures that may be applicable, referring to the individual implementing measures the indication of the most appropriate and effective application choices of place and moment. It also regulates in general what the regions can do and what the municipalities can do and what sanctions can affect violations of the measures. In Article 1, to illustrate the main content very briefly, there is a detailed definition of potentially applicable containment measures. Article 2 lays down the containment measures listed in Article 1 which are adopted by one or more decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, normally after consulting the Technical and Scientific Committee referred to in the order of the Head of the Civil Protection Department. It is important to note in the examination of this article that the Government's obligation to give prior information to the Chambers, when circumstances make it possible, and in any case when particular reasons of urgency do not make it possible to... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u105	Can I ask you to at least leave the floor with the rapporteur so that he can speak in this Chamber? At least this, thank you.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u106	Mr Parrini, rapporteur. It has been inserted the obligation to give, within the framework of the information that according to the decree every fifteen days must be given to the Chambers, the possibility to acquire eventual addresses of the Parliament. Article 3 regulates the relationship between the state measures adopted by decree of the President of the Council of Ministers to deal with the epidemiological emergency and the measures taken by the territorial authorities for the same purpose. Article 4 sets out the sanctioning framework for the violation of contagious containment measures. Article 4-bis, introduced by the other branch of Parliament, provides for the extension of the therapeutic plans which expire during the state of emergency by 90 days if they include certain benefits, i.e. the provision of prostheses, nettles, aids and devices necessary for the prevention, correction and compensation of impairment or disability, the enhancement of skills and the promotion of the autonomy of the assisted. Article 5 provides for the repeal - with the exception of certain specific provisions - of Decree-Law No 6 of 2020 and of Article 35 of Decree-Law No 9 of 2020 on coordination between state measures and trade union orders for the containment of the epidemic.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u107	I declare the general discussion open. Senator De Vecchis is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u108	Mr President, I would like to reason with my colleagues on Decree-Law No 19 to deal with the emergency from Covid-19. I would like to focus in particular on Article 4, where a number of sanctions are listed for infringements of measures to control contagion. First of all. I would like to express my solidarity with all the Forces of Order that have been humiliated and misused, having been transformed into self-certification controllers. [[Applause]] I repeat, self-certification controllers: a humiliation for those who wear uniforms. With regard to Article 4, I would like to give some examples of non-sanctioned violations: 25 April, neighborhoods of Pigneto and Torpignattara, unauthorized demonstration of social centers; beginning of May, unauthorized procession of social centers in Bologna. Also in Bologna, on May 16 the Sardines have fun in a flash mob to defend culture, forgetting that Moro was killed by red brigades and not by the mafia (in any case, I do not see the link between culture and Sardine, in truth). We arrive at us: May 16, in Rome, in Piazza del Popolo, some guys with tricolor masks are stopped, identified and sanctioned. Still in May, the event of hairdressers under Montecitorio: stopped, identified and sanctioned. It's May 8th, when a bartender gets stopped because he brings two coffees to policemen: sanctioned. I wonder, then, is the Viminale still run by a Minister of the Italian Republic or by communist social centers? [[Applause.]] I ask because in practice I realized that those who have the left card are not sanctioned; those who may have right-wing sympathies are sanctioned. It's all or no one. I therefore ask for a single great sanatorium for the hairdressers fined: we cancel this shameful fine, done to those who could not work. It's political jackaling! We should ask for the resignation of the Minister of the Interior, who uses the baton with those who do not have the left card and sweet candies for the children of Dad of the social centers. Shame, Minister, shame! If this is your democracy, I tell you that you are wrong. Count, Arcuri, you grant nothing; you are no one to grant freedom to the citizens. There are laws and the Constitution. So, gentlemen, I am telling you very strongly: we really risk the coup of a red and white dictatorship. We will not give in to these intimidations; on 2 June we will be in the streets to bring back citizens to manifest freely and to launch a cry of freedom. Long live freedom, which the League defends every day on the territories. What has happened is truly shameful. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u109	Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the framework provided by the measure which is called for to be converted into law is so wide that it is almost ethereal that it has allowed many outstanding constitutionalists who have not delayed in denouncing a practice as illegitimate as it is unusually repeated. You see, President, it was written by Alfred de Vigny that the least bad government is what you show the least, the least you feel, the least you pay. And then this is perhaps the worst ever, at the wrongest time ever, because governing means holding the fate of a state, all of them. [[Applause]] But Brutus is a man of honor, I do not come here to deny Brutus but to tell you what I know. And you know what I know? I know that the government declared the state of emergency on 31 January and since then it has been a hundred and eight days in which so many chatters, few facts and an infinite number of proclamations have been made. I know that the measures taken within the limits of the decree in conversion have suspended all the main fundamental rights recognised by the Constitutional Charter. I also know that Parliament has not been an author in all this but has been a mere subject of ratification. An incompetent government that put the fate of our wonderful country in the hands of experts sometimes even rejected by those international bodies of which they professed to be exponents. The result was that the power of fire announced by Prime Minister Conte in one of his many direct televisions turned out to be a miserable firecracker and it will be the Italians, unfortunately, who will pay the consequences. [[Applause]] I also know that Minister Bellanova, instead of thinking of solutions to save the agricultural world, has thought well to carry out a sanatoria to regularize the irregulars that for the agricultural world are useless. You cried, Minister - and I'm sorry you're not here - and that's where you ended up. But with this sanatoria all irregulars will be regularized and among them there are also drug dealers who sell death to our boys. [[Applause]] And then there will be many families - fathers and mothers - who will weep the children who died of an overdose and you will be responsible for this because you haven't thought about it! But I have not seen you cry for our doctors, nurses and health workers. We heard you all call them "heroes" and then, with a pat on the shoulder that tastes like mockery, forget about them and take away the thousand euros promised. You must be ashamed of this. A government that has limited itself to delegate the choices now to that other committee, and to those who dared to protest, or even to advance an alternative perspective, the answer was the same: it could have done better when and if it had been given the opportunity. The ability to analyze needs and the indispensable activity of balancing, sharing and dialogue has been lacking. There has been an increasing deprivation of freedom. We have heard the cry of families with disabled girls and boys, the scream of the elderly made even more fragile by an isolation sometimes difficult to understand, the cry of families in difficulty, the heartfelt appeal of help from the local administrators (and I also put myself in this): prefects who have assumed enormous responsibilities, Presidents of the Region and mayors who have had to take on courageous initiatives both in the phase of the bans and in the phase of the restart, and always with a great absentee, the Government, too busy pointing the finger, making threats and direct Facebook and simulating a leadership, even in the European field, in the completely non-existent facts. President, a dangerous Legist beam like Antonio Gramsci claimed that if a political man errs his hypothesis is the life of men in danger, it is hunger, it is revolt, it is the revolution not to starve. Words that serve as a warning, or rather that they would serve as a warning to anyone who has responsibilities as a government in times of emergency. The contents of the decree-law before this House have been condemned several times by us; they are inadequate, but above all they are outdated. The only reason, now before everyone's eyes, is to regularise all the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (DPCM) used so far improperly. To say that it is not me, but President Pesco, who yesterday in the Budget Committee, where I was present, said that the measure under consideration serves to regularise the DPCMs of Conte. [[Applause.]] I would add that with this decree-law, Prime Minister Conte is given a mandate to continue to issue undisturbed DPCM, effectively expelling Parliament from its functions. [[Call the president back.]] Mr President, I have concluded. Today, the democracy of our country is at stake and I am surprised that my colleagues in the majority - and I address them in particular to my colleagues in the PD - can accept this. A Member of Parliament is elected by the people; the people he should protect and defend. But if you vote in favour of the measure, you will confirm what Italians already suspect, namely that your only objective is to remain glued to the chair. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u111	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u112	Mr President, illustrious member of the Government, colleagues in this House, there are many things to say about this measure, on which it seems that the question of trust will be raised tomorrow, despite the fact that these rules have already become common practice. There is something, which has been emphasized by colleagues with the instrument of the preliminary questions, which indicates the almost character of Chinese boxes that have these decree-laws, each one inside the other so as to emphasize what appeared acceptable at a certain level of public opinion (however at a certain level of consolidated needs) and what instead must be eliminated and that therefore the next decree assumes as something to be improved and then somehow relaunches, creating a sort of witness that refers to the following decree. We are witnessing a relay between the decree-laws, in which we pass the witness from one to the other, in a red thread that crosses them and that somehow does not cease to be amazed because Parliament, in all this, is only urged to express its consent or informed dissent and not already to intervene to improve the legislative instruments we have. What I am interested to stress, however, is the difference between the decree-law adopted and the text resulting from the passage to the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to highlight three points of which, as elements which have been active for some time in parliamentary work, but also and especially in the territories, we have been, and are, in a good capacity, great animators. I am referring, for example, to the passage in which reference is made to children within the autistic spectrum (we are talking about people with motor disabilities or autistic spectrum disorders). I remember perfectly that in the last week of March, precisely in anticipation of 1 April, World Day dedicated to special attention to autistic subjects, we wrote to President Mattarella to highlight that the previous instrument did not take into account the needs and needs of people in greatest difficulty. Another modified point: reference is made to the adoption of health protocols in agreement with the Catholic Church and religious confessions other than Catholic. I recall that, precisely on the occasion of Easter, we had addressed - and here in the Chamber many colleagues had signed it - an explicit request to President Count to realize the inopportunity of this absolute exclusion of those we can consider the privileged places of prayer, of encounter with God, of the real presence of the Lord in the Church, which makes them a little different for the Catholic Church (at least compared to other contexts). We simply asked that such places be opened according to the model of a normal supermarket, i.e. without prejudice to physical distances, without prejudice to the masks and without prejudice to the possibility of hygiene of the hands (very simple things). Conversely, at that time we found ourselves impacting with a closure; it took another decree-law, preceded by statements on television and by solicitations from the Italian Bishops' Conference, in order to obtain what, according to common sense, would have already been obtainable previously. Another step: to ensure the possibility of performing individually, i.e. with a companion for minors and non-completely autonomous persons, sports-motor activities, provided that the distance is respected. I could go on reading all these remarks, which now the next decree-law clearly establishes as practice, exactly as practice establishes the opening of the premises, etc. What does this decree-law add? What are we talking about? We are voting for something that already exists in the conduct of all Italians; these are things that have already been legitimized. When they began to reveal their fragility, and I would also say a genuine distortion of common sense, we did everything we could; and there is documentation in the questions, in the letters to the President of the Republic and in the letters to the President of the Council. But of the purposeful, serene, constructive attitude that only highlighted the problems so that these could be solved, nothing, no recognition of a positive work in which the opposition raised the ball so that the majority could crush. Can you work in this way in an emergency condition? Then I do not want to tell you the amazement that caught me when I learned that the Deputy Minister - who, as you well know, has a somewhat special relationship with the Senate's Health and Health Commission, because he presided over it for a large part of this legislature - had learned from the newspapers some things that had then become operational, as they came from the suggestions that the task forces did. So we who, as Parliament - particularly the Parliament represented by the opposition - felt ignored, marginalized and underestimated could also complain; but it is serious that the Government, in the person of its Deputy Minister, had ignored its prerogatives to intervene in the decision-making processes and had been informed only by decision taken. What is reflected in this instrument is how we have totally shifted the axis from Parliament to the task forces. This is not, as might have been understood, a government of technicians: worse, because technicians are not in government: they govern those who govern, so much so that those who govern learn from the press the resolutions that should have been his personal responsibility to assume (I would even say his right). We ourselves, who have tried to make the most reasonable use of questions, motions and interrogations, have not found a voice on these points; someone simply thought that, all in all, something good and interesting was in the proposal and included it in the next decree-law or in a revision of the previous decree-law. I believe that democracy is in serious suffering. This morning in the debate we recorded the suffering of the Ministry of Justice, through the suffering of the person of the Minister of Justice. However, I would like you to note that there is a suffering linked to the Covid-19, of which the Covid-19 becomes the indicator, that of those who believe that it cannot make use of its responsibility. What I find most serious at the moment is that none of us can legitimately assume his responsibility: the one for which he was voted, the one for which he chose to work in a particular Commission and for which he is active in the proposal for amendments and all the instruments that the rules make available to him. This is because there is simply an area that is difficult to identify and that somehow makes decisions and communicates them. Democracy is not communication of something that has been decided by others. Parliamentary democracy is sharing the responsibility for the decision, and that is what we claim. I shall conclude, Mr President, and members of the Government. I assure you that using Parliament exclusively to legitimise something that is first known, secondly it is already law and thirdly it knows the whole country, makes it very difficult for us to go home this evening and answer the question "What did you vote for today?" We have voted that this or this can be done. But what have we voted to do when it is already known? One might wonder: "What did you go there to do, to say yes?" [[Applause.]] Frankly, that doesn't seem very good. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u113	He's enlisted to speak Senator Corti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this decree-law unfortunately contains all the inconsistencies and superficialities that this Government has shown in this dramatic situation. Two days ago the lockdown finally arrived a turning point with that sighed reopening of the commercial exercises solicited by the most productive Regions to guide the League, and to which the Emilia-Romagna Region has been added to wheel. Finally, on Monday, the people of VAT matches had, despite a thousand difficulties, the opportunity to raise the shutters of their commercial activities, but this has further highlighted the lack of a clear and simple communication from a Government, unable to meet the demands of the entrepreneurs. A possibility that not all exhibitors have been able to grasp, because a reopening with these strict rules does not allow economic sustainability for small and medium-sized enterprises. As we know, in many parts of the peninsula nearly 40 percent of the restaurateurs on Monday did not reopen. Last Monday I finally went to the customary village barber, who has always sailed through a thousand difficulties. Well, this small entrepreneur, with three employees, has reopened the activity and with a certain commitment he has hygienized the environments, spaced the customers, arranged the protective devices, accepted staggered bookings of half an hour, separate entrance and exit, disinfected the POS and with a smile on the face he has done excellently and safely his work. But unfortunately he also knows that, with these ways of working, his activity will be at a loss and soon he will have to fire his collaborators to try to survive, because at his side he lacked the State. The citizens and entrepreneurs in difficulty are addressed daily to us senators; this is usually the case. I believe it is time for the tenants of Palazzo Chigi, for a tenant in particular, to stop thinking only about themselves and go out among the people. Get out of the palace and face the royal country. In the boarding school of Modena and Montagna, where I was elected, the tourist section of our valleys is bleak. Where are those foreign cyclists and motorcyclists who fill our mountain roads at this time? Where are the mushroom lovers who fill our restaurants this season? Where are the holidaymakers who with their second homes help our economy? Of this there is nothing left, but above all there is no money promised on TV by President Count to deal with the emergency. [[Applause.]] Apart from a few farms, which fortunately did not close down during the lockdown and continue to fight to produce wealth - and by the way they do not need illegal immigrants - our mountain restaurateurs and hoteliers in touristic areas, like ours, have been lost throughout the winter season. Why do you think these restaurateurs should have reopened last Monday? They are all entrepreneurs who know how to account and, already under normal conditions, in order not to fail they must have an economic sustainability and hope to glimpse every day the light at the end of the tunnel. Unfortunately, this is not the case, because there is an absolute darkness. Colleagues, do you know that still today many border municipalities between Emilia and Tuscany have not accepted the recent derogation to authorize the movements between neighbouring municipalities extra-region for the visit to their relatives? I understand that the government representative is very multitasking, but I ask for your attention, because this is an important thing, especially for us living on a ridge. These are facts of concrete life and are nothing more than the tip of an immense bureaucratic iceberg, son of the lack of clear and simple communication and lack of common sense. At this time of difficulty you have paralysed, with your bureaucracy, a whole people of small entrepreneurs and restaurateurs. Your iceberg is filled with bureaucracy, has exhausted millions of toners of printers for your five self-certifications and unfortunately wanders into the open sea, risking to hit and sink even that little economy, which still keeps this country standing. The League only asks that citizens have simple answers, that the world of tourism should not be killed in the absence of clear guidelines for phase 2 and that they should also be shared by oppositions. We have seen the tears of a minister, who has been concerned about irregular immigrants, whom we do not need in agriculture. On the other hand, if labour were needed, it would be enough to send in the fields to pick up tomatoes just those 116 Calabrian mafias, discovered this morning by the Guardia di Finanza, who have benefited for months from the income of citizenship they were not entitled to. I shall conclude by taking advantage of the minute that Mr William De Vecchis spared. The rest is history now, but fortunately we have also seen the great strength of a people and its voluntary associations, always at the side of health workers and the forces of the order, starting from the National Alpine Association, which at the cost of great sacrifices has built in Bergamo a new hospital of pat in record times. To the Alpine people I would like to extend my special thanks on behalf of the League, also in the hope that in fast times the Senate will approve the bill for the establishment of the National Day of Alpine Memory and Sacrifice, already approved in the Chamber of Deputies. [[Applause]] I believe that this is the least we can do to thank the Alpine people for everything they have done in time of war, but above all in time of peace. On everything else they will judge the voters and soon their vote will bury this government. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u115	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the time has come to say that this decree-law is dangerous, because it certainly leads us to an authoritarian drift and we must strongly say our no to its conversion into law. Everyone in this House should know - or at least I hope so - that our Constitution lays down the principles of necessity and urgency for the enactment of decree-laws. In this case we do not repent the necessity and even less the urgency, but we see very well the need on the part of the Government to heal the really very gross errors that have been committed in the previous acts, because we did not act in an emergency situation, as had been done - and these assumptions were there - on the occasion of Decree-Law No. 6 of 23 February. Unfortunately, this situation - and I would point out - is now becoming structural. I would like all of us to remember what happened in our nation in February, and I would like your memory for a moment, colleagues, to return to that month. Do you remember what some majority party secretaries did? They organized aperitifs in Milan because they wanted to reassure, not only the Lombards but all the Italians, that there was no danger, that you could meet and that we were very far from what then each of us lived. There were mayors - I remember the mayor of my city, Sala, who showed us that we had to embrace the Chinese and did the promotion, like Mayor Gori, of Chinese restaurants - which made all the opposition pass - and perhaps even more Brothers of Italy and all of us - as racists, xenophobics, because we wanted to close the borders, because we wanted quarantine for all those who came back from China, without discrimination by skin color or by belongings. We simply wanted to protect our nation and especially all citizens. Suddenly, it was not well understood why, even the government and the majority parties woke up from that drowsiness (I don't know what other term to use). You woke up and issued the first decree-law, No. 6 of 2020, which gave the President of the Council - and here again, I stress, temporarily and on the basis of specific conditions - the power to issue the famous decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (DPCM), through which to deal with this emergency. We must all remember that this power was limited to specific areas, to the famous red areas, where the outbreaks were present. I am not long in saying that much time has been lost, although there was a request to close the areas where there were those outbreaks. With a subsequent decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, these measures were extended throughout the national territory. It ran on March 4th, the famous lockdown, in which almost everything was closed. Therefore, with a measure, I emphasize it, administrative - and let me also say suddenly - of the President-in-Office of the Council not only Italy and the Italians understood that everything was closed and that individual freedoms were removed, which are guaranteed by our Constitution, such as freedom of enterprise, but even this happened without an analysis of the health situation, without studying and analyzing the data on mortality, that is, without having clearly defined the health situation of our nation. All this has been made worse by what I would now call the President-in-Office's television series: his press conferences, where the situation was getting worse and worse. Do you remember that famous press conference of the President of the Council? It was Saturday, March 7, when he suddenly gave this news. What happened? I remember it, because I was in Cuneo and I went back to Milan too. I remember very well the queues of cars at the toll booth and I remember very well also the people who had run to the Central Station of Milan in order to return to the South. I am not here to remind you of everything that happened, but I remember all the confusion created, everything that millions of Italian families were suffering, that they no longer understood anything, that they were terrified, that they had a great feeling of fear, because they heard the President of the Council make certain statements. Let's go back to something very important to make clear the lack of precision, sensitivity, the study of this Government, despite all the task forces: it had not done any study on the data. We then did so, as Brothers of Italy. We didn't come up with anything: we simply took and analyzed Istat data on mortality of the years 2018, 2019 and 2020, because neither the Government nor the Civil Protection have ever been able to provide that data. That data tells us a lot because they made us understand that there is a part of the population (the one later in the years) that is much more fragile; just go and see the mortality data. This too, however, the Government has absolutely screwed it; it has gone on its very ideological path, failing the founding principle for those who make politics, that is, taking responsibility for decisions. No, the government doesn't want to take responsibility and, therefore, did the FAQs. To the confusion that had arisen, to the great mess and to the fear of millions of families, the Government, to all this, responded with the FAQs. I think no Italian had ever heard this term before. What are these FAQs or, better, what have these FAQs done? They have subverted the hierarchy of sources of law by reducing the Constitutional Charter to a mere harp and I recall that this anti-institutional drift of the Government has always been strongly signalled by us as Brothers of Italy. I must say that many authoritative voices have also been added. I mention only two, that of Cassese and Baldassarre; this is to say that we of Brothers of Italy do not say things that do not correspond to true and real data and common sense. It is clear, therefore, that if at the beginning of this pandemic there was certainly necessity and urgency, today these are no longer found. Mr President, perhaps I have a few more minutes to finish with Mr Zaffini giving up his speech, as you have been given up. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, I already gave you an extra minute. Under the Rules of Procedure, I cannot replace one intervention with another. However, I would like to make it quite clear. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Thank you very much, Mr President. I want to conclude by saying that we of Brothers of Italy have always strongly denounced this danger that was, is and will certainly still be in the future. I would like to make a prayer to the President-in-Office of the Council: to stop, when he does press conferences, using the expression: We agree. It is not the Government that allows the individual freedoms of each of us. I would also like to ask the President-in-Office to use the word 'thank you' more in his press conferences. We thank the Italians for the way they behaved. Mr President, in our opinion, the time has come - it would be very opportune - to close all these task forces and all these Commissioners - I do not dwell on the behaviour of Commissioner Arcuri because I do not have the time - and to return to open the doors of the institutions and of Parliament, because here there is the representation of the Italians, because here there is the people! Shut down the task forces. End it with the commissioners and open the doors of Parliament. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u117	She's registered to speak Senator Pucciarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Monster Covid 19 has submitted the whole system of protection of human rights and hard-earned constitutional guarantees. The massive use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, which led to the so-called lockdown on 9 March, restricted some of the individual and social freedoms, as well as prevented the freedom of economic initiative. [[Brusio.]] Connect, if you disturb her, she may even come out; otherwise, as I did with others, she can listen silently. I ask you to do the same. [[Applause.]] In particular, the restriction of freedom of movement, put in second order by the protection of public health, and the blocking of economic activities have led to a number of violations of human rights. What has been violated and continues to be violated is the right of every individual to social security, to have for himself and his family an existence in conformity with human dignity, to have a standard of living sufficient to guarantee his own health and well-being and his own family, with particular regard to nutrition, the right to safety in the event of unemployment, illness, disability or in other cases of loss of means of subsistence for circumstances independent of his own will. (17.45) (Followed by Mr Pucciarelli). Well, Covid-19 is certainly one of those causes of force majeure in which the State must intervene to ensure that these rights are preserved. You see, President, the desperation of families has reached the limit of endurance, there are family fathers who can't really buy food for their children, families who are back with rent, utilities, mortgages, because the mortgages haven't been suspended, the bills continue to arrive and in the meantime the integration fund is only on paper. [[Applause.]] Even these people may feel rejected, Minister Bellanova, even these Italians may feel invisible and think they have no voice. They are bus hirers, the world of weddings, constructions, the world of discos, security, self-schools, VAT matches, micros, small companies, people in the flesh, people who write to us, like Daniela, who says "The integration fund still nothing." I'd like to know how to live. Stop, we're going crazy. Dana: "Help us, the integration fund doesn't come, we don't have money to eat, we don't know if we work this year. I work at the hotel and no one tells me anything. Vincenzo: I still have to take the ordinary integration fund. Is there anything you can do? Thank you. I have two kids, one mortgage, and two months without a salary. Please do something. Walter: How can you think that you can live with 600 euros, which rent I pay 430? Not to mention all the expenses in a family. Francesco: "My pension fund told me that they will not give me the 600 euros, because the money is gone." Riccardo: I haven't received the 600 euro bonus yet and I've been home for over two months and I'm out of money. Demis: For more than two months without salary and I have not yet received the Integration Fund. Next week, I'm gonna go steal to eat. Giacomo: I work on call in the hotel sector and I am not entitled to 600 euros or other support. Carlo: I'm a construction artisan, I haven't seen 600 euros yet. In a few days I'm running out of F24, I've got mortgages, leases, and nothing's been suspended from me. So far I've always given everything to the state, but so far I haven't received any help. The bank doesn't give me anything anymore. Finally, Samantha, whose commentary was in line with President Conte's last direct: This evening I ate a salad to leave the meat to my son and I don't think I'm the only one. Do you know where you can put your tears? Well, these are people who write to all of us, they may have written to you too, but you are too distracted to understand the things you are being asked for. [[Applause.]] After these messages, I invite you to reread the statements made by Count, Gualtieri or simply by Zingaretti, where the recurring phrase was that no one would be left alone and abandoned to himself and to see that they kept their word, because they were able to make the whole Nation feel abandoned to itself and oppressed by those Forces of order that you forced to stop in some cases the fathers of the family, because perhaps they lacked the many certificates, while in the meantime the dealers continued undisturbed to sell death. [[Applause.]] Yes, you have managed to create a rift between honest citizens and those who should protect them from criminals. Italy has had to fight against the virus, it will have to fight against the economic crisis and speculators, but it will succeed despite you, despite your arrogance combined with your inability to respond to the needs of citizens. You've tried to steal from us the present, but you won't be able to deprive us of the future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u119	He's enlisted to speak Senator Moles. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u120	Mr President, representatives of the Government, as has already been said, the decree-law that we are called upon to convert in fact is nothing more than a collection of the various decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers which the Head of Government has authorized in total and complete solitude. Of course, at the beginning - I stress this - all this was dictated by the extreme emergency and the urgency, but then why did you abuse this regulatory instrument? All these acts, as many have said so far, have totally excluded Parliament and, since the state of emergency will last, the decree-law has been issued with what I call the sanatoria of all decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers. Mr. Deputy Minister, sometimes it was easier to understand Manzoni's poetry on May 5th than the decrees of the President of the Count's Council of Ministers and we know that because we have suffered it. With all these measures, freedoms have been crushed, prevented, sacrificed in the name of public health. The position of Forza Italia and CentroRextra has been based on responsibility and has meant that we have all accepted the first moments of emergency and therefore also the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, but we have done so only and only in the exclusive national interest. This, however, does not exempt us from highlighting the errors, shortcomings and strong institutional forces of which the Government has been the protagonist, among other things since before the emergency broke out. Since 31 January Prime Minister Conte has always acted with decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, i.e. by administrative acts, expelling Parliament: other than respect for the appeal of the President of the Republic to responsibility and sharing on the measures to be adopted and adopted. With the measure under consideration, the Government does nothing but give legal legitimacy to the previous acts, therefore also to its prohibitions and restrictions that have already been adopted. However, the serious thing is that with Decree-Law No 19 of 2020 the Government expects to have only an obligation to Parliament, that is, to carry out, before doing anything else, a simple illustration of what it intends to do, in the face of constitutional respect and the functions of Parliament. What are the proposals for restoring the rule of law in the decree-law in question? What are the proposals to correct all the problems that have emerged so far in the management of the emergency? There's nothing. Even now that the country is slowly resuming the road to normality and the use of the mask is rightly imposed, with a stroke of genius it is decided to impose the price, with the result that the citizens still have difficulty finding them. In addition, we must witness the protagonism of Extraordinary Commissioner Arcuri, who first flies against the liberals from the living room (maybe someone should explain to him what liberal or liberal means), apostrophoning with demagogic tones anyone who makes him notice his mistakes; all of course with the usual press conference without contradictory. In these months we have been responsible, cooperative and serious and we have reached the last parliamentary passage of what represents a sanatorium of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers proposed by Count. Forza Italia once again demonstrates once again that it is committed to being in Parliament, to giving course and value to parliamentary activity, with continuity, firmness and seriousness. It is a commitment made with the Italians and we have done so despite the fact that Prime Minister Conte has often kindly granted it to us from the top of his power, which he perhaps considers unlimited and all-inclusive. The problem lies in the modalities that Prime Minister Conte has repeatedly offered in these months. We are talking about extremely important issues of democracy and related to the Constitution. We have had the suspension of the Constitution, the spectacularization of the man in command: it is proof of the nine decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers proposed in these two months (nove), the many press and direct conferences Facebook of a Premier who, instead of reassuring the Italians, left them in panic; It is also an example of the libertic decisions that there have been, the writings of ambiguous and incomprehensible decrees, which have cast Italians into discretion, interpretation, having to move in the sea of the frequently asked question (FAQ), in an attempt to avoid first criminal convictions and then administrative sanctions from bloodshed, up to shameful aberrations such as that of seeing fines of 400 euros of restaurateurs going down to the square respecting the norms of safety and distancement and wearing masks. [[Applause.]] We have seen some news that I call absurd: Cassa Integrazione without certainties on ways and times; INPS website tilt, or that shows sensitive information of citizens; 600,000 masks sent by Civil Protection to doctors of the capitals of the Region and then withdrawn because not suitable for health use, the Viminale that authorizes jogging and then forbids it, then clarifies and explains better, while maybe he was preparing the new self-certification and again, and again. Mr. Deputy Minister, there are people who have written to "Who has seen him" in order to know the fate of the 600 euros and of the 25,000 euros for the enterprises. Then there were stable affections in accordance with the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. No mea culpa was proposed by President Conte despite, as has been mentioned, the President of the Constitutional Court, despite a Cassese in turn and despite a Baldassarre, who supported the unconstitutionality of limiting freedoms through a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers. In conclusion, this has always been covered and justified with the excuse of the opinion of the technical committees, the number of experts and the task forces, which almost exceeded the number of infected. A government that has done nothing but promise; 50 billion here, 70, 120. It sounded like Lotto numbers extraction. However, it keeps little or nothing. Words. And then there is a challenge, I have prepared an amendment to the measure, which ensures that finally what the state owes to regions that are interested in oil extractions, such as Basilicata, and it owes it since 2015, is finally given to those regions that are waiting for it. It is the equivalent of everything that the State does not pay to private companies, with delays in public government payments. It's a challenge, Mr. Deputy Minister. It's an amendment. [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u121	Finish it, Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u122	MOLES (FIBP-UDC). I hope that no matter what you feel for the umpteenth time, trust will not be placed because, Mr. Deputy Minister, I am sorry that there is only you, but the more you ask for trust, the more a government does not deserve it. Otherwise the truth is that this Government is worth as much as the word given and, that is, so far nothing. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u123	I am pleased to recall that it is absolutely permissible to divide the times into seven, eight, nine minutes, but when I see the fractions of the ten minutes I am more rigorous in demanding the respect of the times, because otherwise... we understood each other.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u124	Senator Pillon is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u125	Mr President, from February 2020 until today, 11 decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers, two ordinances, three decrees-laws and several additional administrative acts have been approved by this Government, if I have not mistreated the accounts. A congery of norms in the midst of which you have skilfully camouflaged some measures that I fail to define as deadly, that is, capable of creating a very dangerous slipping of our order towards a life that is no longer definable as democratic. There are some rights which, by their very nature, can be restricted by a decree of the President of the Council of Ministers; there are others that can only be limited by acts having the force of law, but other rights are still intangible, they are rights that can in no way be limited. These highly restrictive measures of freedom have had a common victim, a common target and this target is the family. The Government's task was not to conculcate rights, but to find a way to reconcile the exercise of those rights with the health situation that has come to be created in our country. Instead, you preferred to eliminate rights at the root rather than find a way to enable them to be exercised safely. Because of this in three months 20,000 marriages were not celebrated, they jumped; in the civilization of the Lari and the Penates, 90,000 deaths were left without funeral, many of these were cremated against the will expressed in life. Small family businesses, the lifeblood of our country, have been left alone. Children have been deprived, in some cases, of the presence of their parents, especially in separate families or children in family homes, who have even been forced to see their parents on Skype. Children, in general, have been forced into the home - for more than two months - like chickens, and only today when you convert do you remember autistic children, who do not have the opportunity to stay locked in the house, if not paying a very heavy price for their health. [[Applause.]] Families have been divided, grandparents separated from grandchildren and state media all this time have found nothing better to do than obsessively insist on violence in the family, as if the family were the den of all violence. Every violence is too much, and even one is too much. But let us not forget, please, that in the face of a case of violence there are millions of families who do - and well - their work every day. We have to worry about these. The families were left without money, without support. They were left alone in front of this distance learning fantasy that reduced parents to humble servants of the state school. Not to mention the peer schools, which have been brought to hunger. [[Applause.]] All this has not been done by chance, and you cannot even say that it has been done because there was no money, because we have voted for a budget deviation of 55 billion, which is perhaps the largest since the post-war period. The truth is that all this was done for a precise ideological reason: the family had to be hit; it had to be reduced to destruction. This has emerged very clearly on the site of "opendemocracy", a think tank very close to the Open Society of George Soros, in which a series of articles have been read during this period that contain simply amazing words: we deserve better than the family and the time of Coronavirus is the perfect time to abolish it. Moreover, motherhood is a very powerful ideological building that must be cleared up; the abolition of the family does not mean ending love and care, but rather serves to extend them to all. You have profited from this situation to do the service that asked for a globalist lobby instead of putting yourself at the service of those who pay your salaries, that is, Italian families. [[Applause.]] The President of the Constitutional Court Marta Cartabia spoke absolutely clearly: the Constitution does not provide for a special right for exceptional times, and this is for a conscious choice of the constituent legislator, but it also offers the compass to navigate the open sea in times of crisis, starting precisely from the loyal collaboration between the institutions. Colleagues, that Mr Orban - I have concluded, President - in respect of whom everyone has torn his clothes because he had asked for full powers, has already restored his powers, while here we still do not see the end of this substantial expropriation of democracy by this Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u126	She's enlisted to speak Senator Rauti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is my first speech in phase 2, so I want to start by thanking all those who have secured essential services in lockdown. I also want to thank all Italians - women and men - who have taken a very serious and responsible course in this emerging phase. I thank the families, great Italian strength, who have absorbed all the activities of welfare, of services to the person, of distance teaching, along with smart working, and in particular women. Therefore, I would like to thank those families who have kept society together during this period of emergency. So thanks to Italy that has reopened since Monday, despite the delay of communications, despite the confusion, the absence of targeted aid sector by sector, activity by activity, because in reality the directives that arrived did not look at people and differentiated needs but looked at the Ateco in bulk, dealing with very different situations. I also address a thought to those who have been out of work, to those who have been left without any help, to those who have not been able to reopen and perhaps will never reopen. Thank you Italy for the strength you have shown in raising your head once again. Let us now come to the provision at our examination, the conversion into law of Decree-Law No. 19. Basically, as has already been said, we are talking about a sanatorium of previous Council Presidential decrees, therefore administrative acts. We are talking about sanatoria because it is the term that best binds to the concept of abuse, because that is exactly what happened. Everything originates from Decree-Law No. 6 of 23 February 2019, voted by us too, in which there are two words: "Other measures". It goes back to those two words every decree of the next President of the Council, so that decree-law was wielded as a sword to carry out continuous abusive acts through the decrees of the President of the Council. We voted in favour of this decree-law because we are always rooting for Italy, because we were in an emergency situation. We've always been there. We have guaranteed the quota of attendance in this House, we have also guaranteed the quota of the time of debate, we have taken part in all the meetings of majority and opposition, bringing, moreover, unnecessarily, our proposals. We also voted in favour of budgetary expenditure, with a sense of responsibility, and we immediately called for the need to keep Parliament open, to make it work and to live. Giorgia Meloni first proposed a directing booth and, addressing Parliament, spoke of open doors of the Palace. In short, we have been, with responsibility, and have defended the role of Parliament and the effectiveness associated with it of the democratic system because the institution, unfortunately, has been bypassed, has been exonerated and the President-in-Office of the Council has taken - let me say this - arrogant and bullying attitudes talking about concessions to Parliament. This does not go well with respect for constitutionally guaranteed rights and has democratic and constitutional significance because it has gone ahead with the decisions of the President of the Council - twelve in these months - all co-active and non-proactive, or decree-laws. Constitutional rights have been compressed and fundamental and personal freedoms, such as circulars, demonstrations, including fines (shame), religious freedom and more, have been restricted. Decrees of the President of the Council, task forces, directives, orders, direct Facebook and television: here is the negative figure of an emergency management with the aggravating addition - I mean - of a self-referential narcissism and a taste for spectacularization and for the show more reality than from membership representing a national drama such as that which Italy has experienced. There have been confusing, contradictory communications, decrees of the President of the Council announced before being written, of course not shared or published late in relation to the announcement, a ridda of self-certifications and the abnormal wave of FAQs. The flaw of unfounded announcements has also produced far more serious failures. I mention just a few of the many examples: you have created expectations and I am thinking of the 600 euro bonus for self-employed workers that one million of them are still waiting for; I am thinking of the integration fund by way of derogation that has not arrived; I am thinking of disabled people who are closed at home without the promised bonus, without therapy and without assistance. I think about family caregivers without recognition. I am thinking of the elderly in nursing homes, isolated from their families. I'm thinking about deaths without a funeral. Those who earned from the Covid emergency are just the mobsters, the ones we got out of prison, sending them home. [[Applause.]] We locked all the others in the house without help and assistance. Let us return to the abuse that you ask us to heal, but that you will do without our vote. The management you have had is critical not only in politics but also in terms of law and the President, the people's lawyer, understands well what this means. We are talking about statements of unconstitutionality contained in the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that have gone to limit fundamental freedoms and guaranteed by the Constitution. It is very clear and simple. And nothing, not even the timeliness, can justify an excessive protagonism, a confused action and the abuse to which I am referring. As for timeliness, you have certainly been timely in appearing, externating and declaring; static and fixed in determining. I am thinking of those twenty-five days of delay between the statement of the state of emergency and the first act of 23 February last. Anyway, I'm coming today. This immediate link with the emergency should no longer exist. We are in phase 2, badly initiated, yet we see that we continue to persevere in the same mistake. You know that wandering is human, but persevering is something else and belongs to you. I also explain why. Everything should now be brought back to normal parliamentary practice. We have always said and continue to think that any extraordinary measure should be authorised by Parliament, which should re-appropriate its role of decision-making, as well as its powers of control over the Commission. Not only has this not happened, but it risks not happening again because - and I come to the node - the amendment tabled by Mr Lollobrigida di Fratelli d'Italia was rejected on 14 May last in the Chamber of Deputies and a rule was adopted which, according to a fake news, would be a guarantee because these measures would be presented to the Chambers by the President of the Council or by the Minister delegated. Attention, it's not like that. In fact, the President-in-Office of the Council presents the measures to the Chambers and takes account of any guidelines that have emerged, but there is no parliamentary vote on them and, furthermore, if there are grounds for urgency, he will report at a later stage. Gentlemen, you're persevering and you're playing the three-card game. It is also necessary to pay attention to Article 14 of the so-called decree relaunching, revised and corrected in the course of work, on the declaration of the state of emergency, which we will discuss again. Having finished the time available to me, I begin to conclude with a consideration that I do as when throwing a rock: you killed the parliamentary Republic, but the popular vote will send you home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u128	He's enlisted to speak Senator Pianasso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u129	Mr President, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, it is absurd for me to meet in the Senate Chamber to discuss and vote on an unnecessary and completely outdated measure. We are called here to convert a decree-law that governs the closure of the whole country, while in these hours throughout Italy reopens most of the activities. Is it serious - I ask myself - to vote on emergency measures when this is behind us? What's the point? [[Applause.]] This does not make sense and shows that the President-in-Office of the Council and his team of Ministers with easy tears have little regard for Parliament. We have to tell the Italians loud and clear. First, President Conte took over the full real and real powers, ruling through decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers and locking the Italians at home, in a state of police where drones, helicopters and cameras were used to hunt people who were running in solitary or sunbathing on a deserted beach; all this, however, while drug dealers and delinquents continued beautifully to gather in desert parks and squares, continuing their dirty traffics in the most total impunity. [[Applause]] Now, after having deprived the Italians of freedom, after having passed one of the worst health crises in Italian history, when it would be time to discuss the plans of this Government (assuming that it has) to restart our country, we must waste our time to heal old decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers with a parliamentary vote. This decree-law reminds me when we go to the vote and, in the election campaign, we resume the points of the previous electoral programme, saying that we have achieved points one, two and three; so we have done everything, from A to Z. We in the League, together with our colleagues from the other centre-right parties, have been asking for weeks to be debated in Parliament and for us to come to Parliament to approve the rules that removed freedom and the possibility of working for millions of Italians. You have listened as a merchant and have continued the procedure of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, on which there are still many doubts about constitutionality; and only now, two months later, come and ask for an opinion on those decrees. It is clear that there is nothing to discuss about this now; those rules no longer make any sense and have been effectively repealed by the Decree-Law of 16 May, which has been published in the Official Journal. It makes sense to discuss the illogical way in which you wanted to manage the Coronavirus emergency by expelling Parliament, but by hiring hundreds of consultants and multiplying task forces from vague and uncertain tasks and responsibilities, as well as vague and uncertain results have been produced. In my area it is said: better practice than grammar. We have a lot of people here with grammar, but little practice. [[Applause]] Do we want to talk about the supercommissary at nothing, who in three months has not been able to accomplish a single task assigned to him? Yet he continues to pontificate. The dance of the masks, three months after the pandemic burst, has not yet ended and probably the supercommissary at nothing will be able to ensure an effective and widespread distribution when they no longer serve. Not only that, but he even jammed the productive machine, with his brilliant idea of imposing a political price. As well as the much talked app for smartphones, which is the manifesto of the total inability of this Government, able only to make announcements, without being able then to translate nothing into practice. It was advertised weeks ago, then it disappeared from the radar and will probably be ready when it no longer serves; and anyway it would not serve nor serve until there is adequate screening of the population. Without carpet swabs you can't know who is asymptomatic positive and therefore unconscious vector of contagion; therefore, the app can't highlight anything if you don't track people's movements. It therefore loses its health significance and maintains only that of the violation of privacy. Speaking of swabs: at the production and distribution of swabs and reagents, who should have thought? Our dear supercommissary, who obviously failed in this task too, but remains well glued to his chair, despite the manifest inability to produce acceptable results. This is what we want to discuss; we want to discuss what has been done, the money spent and the responsibility of those who had to do and did not do, who had to inform and did not do so, who could intervene immediately to limit the epidemic, but preferred to pretend nothing, without adequately informing the regions and without working to supply the stocks of masks, swabs, reagents and breathers, when on the market they were available at low prices. Then we want to discuss the measures that the country is waiting to try to restart; we want to discuss a so-called re-launch decree, which does not relaunch anything, but disperses resources in rain, without affecting in any sector. Instead of pouring embarrassing tears for the illegals, who in the least part will benefit from the facts of the sanatoria that you have brilliantly drawn up, we would like to see the same participation for the suffering of the millions of Italians who see their activities or their job seriously at risk, after three months of closure. Let us think, for example, of the motor vehicle sector, which alone is worth an important figure of our GDP and for which there is no trace of aid. We are talking about thousands of companies at risk of closure and hundreds of thousands of workers who are seriously at risk of losing their jobs, after the car market has collapsed by 90% in recent months. Instead of listening to the world of production and meeting its needs, this government prefers to run after a dumb pseudo-environmentalism. Only those who live completely detached from reality can imagine that to restart the country there is need of incentives for the purchase of scooters [[Applause]] or electric cars, which still have prohibitive prices for the vast majority of the population, as well as obvious logistical problems that do it a useless good to those who do not live in the centers of the big city. We would like to discuss this and much more, certainly not the articles already adopted by a two-month-old decree by the President of the Council of Ministers, surpassed by events and the work of a President, who fell in love with full powers and abused them beyond any bearable limit, demonstrating, moreover, that he did not live up to the task and the responsibilities he wanted to assume. I ask myself and I ask the majority above all: if only half of what Conte had done was Salvini? But don't answer to me, it would just be the game of the parties [[Applause]] ; answer your conscience and say what you would have said. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u130	Senator Grassi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would say that on this decree-law, as far as constitutional legitimacy is concerned, everything has already been said. On the other hand, it is enough to browse, even online, a magazine dedicated to constitutional law to understand that this majority has given constitutionalists matter to work incessantly in the coming years. Today we are turning everything that has been done into law, and we are called to do so only to avoid the countless disputes that are already emerging on the horizon. However, I would like to leave out this profile by drawing attention to certain aspects which seem to me to be revealing the spirit of this majority. The first point is that the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, issued in the current emerging context, impose limitations on fundamental freedoms and inviolable rights provided for and protected by the Constitution at the highest level. We recall the presence of numerous absolute legal reservations that have been repeatedly violated. Of course, some absurdities have been corrected: for example, criminal sanctions have been removed, after at a very early stage the prosecutors had been committed to assess the violation of the famous article 650 of the penal code: perhaps one of the worst rules of our penal code; one of those where the doctrine is ingenious to find the square of the circle, because in reality it is exactly what should not be, that is, a criminal norm in white. Luckily, he got better. With administrative acts he even wanted to affect the will of the deceased, preventing a funeral ceremony and requiring the bodies to be cremated, regardless of the will expressed in life. I don't want to take you too long. I just want to remind you that the Constitutional Court, but also the European Court of Justice, has repeatedly reminded you that the principles of proportionality and reasonableness are constitutional and are now also part of the principles of the European Union. This means that we must always act with great balance and with great common sense. This has not happened and has not been done. I believe that it is possible to grasp the true spirit of this majority among the folds of this measure. I am aware that under certain conditions it is also possible to achieve a constitutional break; I understand that. I also understand that under emergency conditions, perhaps you should use what you would not normally do. One might argue that, after all, if we are dead, we have no other rights and that therefore Article 32 prevails over everything. Let us return to that problem of dosage, of wise use of the ingredients that the Constitutional Charter makes available to us because, precisely when we are forced to strive for the maximum elasticity of the principles - we know that the principles by definition are elastic - others must be the embankment, so that those principles do not break down in the end. Let me just point out that Article 2 (5) of the decree in question states: The President of the Council of Ministers or a Minister delegated by him shall report every fifteen days to the Chambers. We had proposed a simple amendment, which was rejected, adding the following words: "and also provides appropriate information on the measures taken to the Presidents of the Regions and the Regional Councils concerned." I would add nothing more than to point out that this amendment served to draw the attention of the Government to the loyal collaboration between the State and the Regions, because the Permanent Conference for the Relations between the State, the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces was convened sporadically: just go and read the data on its website. The government has once again shown that it does not really know what democracy is. [[Applause]] I remind the government that democracy is also measured by the degree of respect for opposition. I would like to close by saying: 'We are better than you,' but when it is up to us - because it is up to us - we will show you what the truly democratic forces are. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u132	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u133	Mr President, this is the first time in seven and a half years that I have spoken with a written speech and I am also concerned about it. Everything that has happened since the declaration of the state of emergency was made deserves to be told and put in order: all the facts must be put in a good line and carefully observed. Before proceeding with this narration, however, I would like to point out one aspect: you will not think that, for having written without prejudice to the decrees of the President of the Council of previous Ministers, these are suddenly raised to the rank of primary rule, that is to say, become laws with regulatory scope and amending power of other laws. If that's what you think, you're wrong. Having said that, let us examine what has happened. I would start from the first phase, which I could call a preliminary phase or a pre-crisis period, when we were still commenting on videos of what was happening elsewhere, whether true or false. At that time, everyone rightly had their opinion on how it would have been possible to proceed if the same had occurred in Italy, also in the medical environment and in the specialists. Even the latter do not have the truth in their pockets, as our living room immunologist teaches, who always answers every question that what was asked does not know, but knows more. Imagine if at a university exam the student in front of you, every question, told you that he can't answer it, but he can answer another question. I'd tell him to go back to the exam when he knows what I'm asking him and not what he wants to talk about. Well, those people had a plurality of opinions that, in phase 1, in which we entered medias res, failed. At this point, the most medialy exposed categories, i.e. the medical environment, of researchers, of political and of information, have all begun to play the same music creating a kind of unique national thought. This created a race for catastrophism, that is, for those who shot her the biggest, generating fear as a side effect. The Italians were afraid, also because you placed them in the house, in front of the television that mesmerized them. And I really want to use the verb mesmerize and not hypnotize, because Mr. Mesmer could say something in this case. A very human attitude has meant that the fear of those who spoke has become the fear of all. And I am referring to the fear of the politician to burn himself, if he had made the wrong decision; to the fear of the living room immunologist to say the wrong thing at that time or turned out to be wrong later, or to the fear of the journalist to burn himself by carrying out untrue news. Everyone has aimed at their own preservation and this - in my opinion - was the first mistake: not the biggest, but the first. Those who exercise power, whether it be information, health or political, cannot afford the lack of professionalism. He can't afford his own fear to become someone else's fear. So, on the basis of fear, you practically put leash and muzzle at the citizens; an apparently virtual leash - don't move more than 200 meters away from home - but then become real. What happened? People have had and are afraid to leave the house; people have begun to be afraid, afraid of everything, including - and here is the second and most serious mistake - the people who wear uniforms, the Forces of Order. You had Alberto Sordi break the fourth wall, the one who, very little professionally, played the role of vigilante wearing the uniform. We have seen absurd things: we have seen the municipal police, according to crazy orders, open the envelope of people's spending to control its consistency with the order that decided to spend more than 50 euros. The government should have told people that this is a personal search that requires authorization. We have seen the performance of a receipt: the Finance Guard itself can no longer ask for the receipt, but only proof of the purchase, in the sense that it cannot control the amount of the same and what was bought. That, however, has not been said. You should have told the mayors that, since the government has invoked management to itself, all the most restrictive orders are automatically null and void. The decision of the Council of State came out that when he made the mayor of Messina it was madness and, therefore, his order had to be censored and decayed. That's what constitutional jurisprudence does. But no one said anything. Perhaps even more restrictive measures were needed that frightened people? I think it doesn't suit anyone that people are afraid of the Forces of Order who, in most cases, have behaved professionally and, in a few cases, haven't. Unfortunately, however, in this situation of the compression of constitutional rights, those who exercise power are not allowed not only to cross the line, but also to try to move it. In this situation it had to be made clear that the lack of professionalism was not acceptable and we had to have the perfect knowledge of the rules. In fact, self-certification cannot be imposed: the law gives the right to self-certification, it does not oblige. I cannot be forced, unless a measure of equal regulatory scope amends the decree of the President of the Republic No. 445 of 2000, to self-certification, even less to self-certification my state of health, which is expressly prohibited by that rule (Article 49). What happened then? Of course, in an imperfect system, in which the network also exists, other confirmed news has begun to circulate, such as that according to which in other nations they do not act in the same way, or newspaper articles clearly misleading, such as that on the thirty-year-old boy, who died by coronavirus, the youngest, and then, discovering that he had been in an irreversible coma for three years because they had shot him in the head. Is this journalism? Is that information? No. But, as someone started to point out it, the Single Ministry of Truth, which I could call the guardian of the single national truth, decides what is right, what is not right, what should be removed and what should be censored. Interviews have therefore been removed from Nobel Prize winners, who have been delegitimized because they are now old, or to the world's largest virologist, Didier Raoult, who holds 5% of all world quotes in this field. To me that I am truly a man of science - mathematics, modestly, is the only exact science for four thousand years - to say that, since the scientific community has downloaded a person, then what it says is not valid, is a bit like saying that, if you do not agree with Newton's theory of gravitation, the apple must return to the tree, because its claims are no longer valid. It's like saying that a doctor downloaded from the Order is no longer a doctor, he knows nothing, and so we can go on forever. This is what you created. In conclusion, you have made the most serious mistake of all: you have cleared what in other times we would call the deep state, the deep state, that is, the state behind the state that makes decisions without popular legitimacy. I am referring to what you call task forces, the operating units that decide independently and call for a criminal shield. The real question that we all have to ask ourselves is: but to the people who are part of the operating units that input arrive? Those who have a preferential channel with a person who is in London may propose to include something in the decrees and the citizen will never know. Then, when the executive power delegates to an occult state, it has a deep state, the execution of procedures and measures that, according to the government, will change the lives of the Italians, I believe that you can no longer use the word "complotist," because you are the conspiracy, you have cleared this practice, which is the worst of democracy, but that unfortunately - I conclude with one last sentence - is in the full project of one of the founders of the major party present here: democracy had to be replaced by another, because Parliament was passed and made decisions the network in its community. Well, that's not democracy. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Casolati is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u134	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, in this speech I would like to focus on the attitude of certain public officials in the application of the rules of the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers which imposed restrictions and suspensions of freedom of movement and the free manifestation of the thinking of citizens. Although it should not be necessary, I remember that the functioning of the rules lies in the right balance between the people who are called to respect them and those who are responsible for enforcing them. I want to tell the cases of Turin and Milan, both of which happened last May 6. In Turin, Mr. Giuseppe, owner of the Bistrot bar located in via Monte di Pietà, just opposite the Passo Carraio del Monte dei Pegni, was charged a fine of 400 euros for having delivered three coffees that had been ordered by the director of Monte di Pietà by telephone. In Piedmont the delivery was allowed on that date, but not the takeaway, which would have started a couple of days later. A patrol of zealous officers warned him that one of the cafes (the director's) was to be considered as delivery because it was present at his place of work; different thing was true for the two cafes that the director had offered to the two police officers because that was not their usual job and, therefore, was to be considered take away. This is extremely shameful considering the fact that, while they sanctioned the bartender, at least four usurers stationed not respecting any rule of distance and not wearing the mask properly near the tail of people who patiently waited their turn. Could the agents not be aware of the work of those characters? That's impossible. Those who pass by there usually cannot but know them; they stand there every day like jackals speculating on the misfortunes of others. The city officials, however, preferred to follow the easiest way: punish the bartender and pretend not to see those scum perhaps because very uncomfortable. In Milan, again on May 6, some owners of public establishments, who had previously notified the authorities of the will to demonstrate in compliance with the rules to defend the right to reopen their activities as soon as possible, were fined together with their collaborators for assembly. All this, however, happened during a television broadcast that showed images far from those of an assembly in front of the outrage of all the guests present in the studio and in connection via web. At this point, it is appropriate to ask what the word "assembling" means. Let's make it clear for a moment: assembly means grouping people with hostile intentions. He shouts revenge, then, what happened in Milan where they were punished without mercy and with order given from above the peaceful traders who, with a deep civic sense and in compliance with the rules imposed to deal with the emergency health, had gathered to defend their dignity as workers against delays, inadequacy and insufficient support measures put in place by the Government. [[Applause.]] This also deserves further consideration. Milan is the same city that has tolerated a demonstration of people, that of April 25, in spite of the respect of any rule even unwritten that should characterize the behaviors of citizens in an emerging situation like this. What has changed in 11 days? The prefect? No. Has the Minister of the Interior changed? No. Perhaps the color of the flags has changed, the red one condemned by history because it symbolizes an ideology often resulting in dictatorship and which has nothing to do with the recurrence of liberation, symbol of freedom. [[Applause.]] I therefore hope that such situations will no longer occur. Never before must Italian citizens feel the closeness of the State, which must be of support. When the citizen sees the long hand of the State approaching him, he must expect a spur, an incentive to pull himself up, a help and not a push that mortifies him in the wallet and - more importantly - in the spirit. Enough with a strong state with the weak and weak with the criminals. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u135	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u136	Ladies and gentlemen, with this speech I would like to begin by expressing my solidarity with the citizens who have suffered the loss of their loved ones during this epidemic and have been in economic difficulties and of all kinds which have compromised the possibility of supporting their families. The decree that has been issued provides for important interventions in order to face the crisis generated by epidemics. Since the epidemic has not yet ended, however, I would like to make a contribution so that even one human life can be saved. The epidemic has evidenced how the progressive weakening of the public health in favor of the private one has made the first not able to respond promptly to a pandemic; in fact it has evidenced how the health, in the hands of the Regions, has been insufficient and however with results profoundly different from Region to Region for what regards its fundamental task, that it is to save the human lives. To realize, just read the numbers. The data that emerge from Lombardy, where 15,597 deaths out of 85,481 occurred on May 19, have come to light: almost 50 percent of the deaths in Italy occurred in Lombardy. If you compare these data with those of another Region, Veneto, where the epidemic began almost at the same time, but there were 1,820 deaths out of 18,997 infected, the differences are striking. We know that absolute numbers depend on the number of checks and therefore on the number of swabs carried out, but the total number of deaths speaks for itself and it is likely that the numbers are in default, because not all citizens have been given swabs. In these classrooms we have repeatedly felt blamed to the Government for the lack of equipment which, however, were of regional competence. This is the result of the policies of regionalization and basically of the demands for autonomy still strongly desired by the League today.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u137	I see an assembly to the right of the House. I ask you, if you can, not to disturb, and maybe to stay a little further away from each other.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u138	COLTORTI (M5S). But do you remember, the right-wing colleagues, the essential minimum performance requirements? Southern citizens, who support the economy by voting on the right, will create Regions at extremely differentiated speeds of development. Making these simple comparisons, emerges also the absolute inadequacy of the regional leaders, in the first place of the president of the Lombardy Region Attilio Fontana and the city council member to health Giulio Gallera [[Applause]] , who say they have followed all the government directives, but it seems clear that the government has never issued a recommendation to hospitalize in structures of the sick RSA in the process of healing, but evidently not yet healed, as it emerges from the resolution of the Regional Council Lombarda n. 112906 of 8 March 2020. [[Comments.]] I didn't bother you during your surgery. Please, then, let me talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u139	I think he's right. And then at this hour you could do without disturbing. There's no live TV, either.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u140	COLTORTI (M5S). Matches were lit in a gas tank that launched the contagion and over 15,000 deaths are not a candy. I suffer for it. Moreover, it is clear that, in the face of a constant weakening of public health and the closure of dozens of public structures that could and should have been reused in Lombardy, it has chosen to open a Covid center at the Milan Fair, cost as much as 25 million, 21 of which from private sources and four from public sources, which will have to be dismantled at the end of the epidemic. [[Applause.]] Or do you want to keep dozens of operators looking at each other and doing nothing? Even now, compared to an initial receptivity of more than 100 beds, 13 patients were accommodated at the time of maximum use. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u141	Colleagues, can we let Senator Coltorti finish his surgery? I remind you that soon after he is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops, who belongs to the Group that is now protesting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u142	COLTORTI (M5S). How to forget that the management has been entirely entrusted to the faithful of the League, among which the newspaper "L'Espresso" mentions - by chance - the former wife of Matteo Salvini. But are these the justice, transparency and above all the good policy advocated by the League? [[Happy protests.]] Is this the honesty that has been requested this morning in this House? PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Once, you know, it was said that the family didn't touch. Let's move on. No one can censor her. COLTORTI (M5S). I would remind you that today Minister Bonafede was to be distrusted. To realize this structure has been called the former head of civil protection, engineer Bertolaso, most faithful of Berlusconi and specialist in waste of public money. How can we not remember La Maddalena's convention center for the 2009 G8 event, which cost over 327 million, plus a hotel for another 75 million? [[Applause.]] Also in that case they are structures never used! More recently it is remembered the Covid center of Civitanova Marche, in the Marches, also cost 12 million and - as a case happens - never used. [[Applause.]] It seems that the important thing is not to do the good of the country, but to spend and distribute money from private donations, whose origin for now is not given to know, why the realization of these structures was given to the Sovereign Military Order of Malta without any transparency: who donated the money and how the costs were estimated? However, the Lombard citizens of that money and of those structures are hardly aware of it, but they have long been aware of the closures of public hospitals and of the long lists to do the analyses, which instead are done in a very short time in private structures. [[Applause.]] When public health is destroyed, private health will be able to carry out the costs it wants. Moreover, at this stage in which the epidemic seems to be falling, Gallera and Fontana have always allowed private companies to carry out - obviously for a fee, but without fixing a minimum cost - serological tests that - as is certainly known - do not guarantee the certainty of having contracted the Covid. At a time when the private individual had to identify on a serological basis that he had been infected, many problems would arise in public structures that, to date, seem not yet equipped to carry out a high amount of swabs to be sure of the contagion. How many deaths are still needed among Lombard citizens to enable regional structures to respond quickly and effectively? [[Applause.]] Even today Lombardy has the highest number of deaths in the regions of Northern Italy. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u143	I would ask you to allow my colleague to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u144	COLTORTI (M5S). Without a certain number of contagions, we risk having false positives at the same time that are quarantined and people who are not infected, but will be potential healthy carriers. I wonder why the example of Venetian health care was not taken in Lombardy, where Dr. Crisanti of the hospital in Padua has equipped himself with equipment capable of making over 9,000 swabs a day. Lombardy should have supplied these equipment for a long time, given the seriousness of the epidemic that affected it and the very high number of deaths. Alternatively, by failing to obtain the equipment, it would have had to upgrade the regional analysis laboratories. In the light of these simple evidences, I invite the Legist colleagues to consider as soon as possible asking for the resignation of Fontana and Gallera for the very protection of Lombard citizens [[Applause]] , that to us of the Movimento 5 Stars are at heart and should be at heart also to the League, regardless of the political color. [[Comments.]] The appointment of such persons with enormous responsibility, not only political but also civil, has followed criteria of political belonging that are outside the necessary competences, as has often happened in the past, almost everywhere in the country. However, the obvious inadequacy of the Lombard leaders is evident, which makes anyone who keeps them in their place as accomplices. [[Applause.]] So I still ask my colleagues in the League to identify more competent people who care more about the health and life of Lombards. [[Applause. Congratulations. Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u145	He is enrolled to speak Senator Bishops. You have the right to calm down if we can. [[Protests.]] I am about to give the word to the Senator Bishops of the League, who will be able to express all the considerations he wants. Senator Coltorti, however, his intervention was purposely aimed at causing such a reaction, because the theme was of such kind and showed a sort of attitude that does not go beyond the measure towards Lombardy, but let's forget it. I have rarely seen such an intervention, without any possibility of contradictory.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u146	Mr President, thank you. I'm telling you, if I were your partner, I wouldn't have the courage to look at myself in the mirror anymore. [[Applause. Protests.]] In Italy there have been 30,000 deaths and we come to the Chamber to attack the Lombard health care, which is an Italian and world excellence [[Applause]] Out of respect for the 30,000 and more victims, such an attack would never have been expected. [[Protests.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u147	But it seems to me that he can now speak quietly, as I have tried to make you speak, and I think he is not overreacting. Please, Senator Bishops, go on.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u148	[[Protests.]] Quiet! Please, Senator Bishops. VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). I think your manner of doing represents the decree-law at our examination, which I define the decree of full powers [[Comments]] You don't even want us to talk! Shame on you! [[Applause.]] This decree, which I define full powers, I do not understand what it has to do with Lombard health care. If even the hospital at the Fair saves 13 lives, as far as I'm concerned it's worth much more than all the money spent [[Applause]] by them with the famous happy degrowth. They violated everything. VOICE. Get out! VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). It represents the democracy of the Movimento 5 Stars. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. I'm calling Senator Airola to order. [[Protests.]] Second call to order for Senator Airola. Go on, Senator Bishops. VESCOVI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I turn to the merit of the decree-law, since we must talk about this today and not about Lombardy, which - I repeat - is a world-wide and Italian excellence and - as far as I am concerned - 13 lives are saved. We do not come to the House to say that a hospital was set up at the Fair only for 13 people, because there are 13 human beings, with families and children. [[Applause.]] And then, when you feel that there are doctors who have to choose who to save their lives, for me they are human beings and you yourself should be ashamed of what your colleague said and you should disagree with those words, and not exalt them. Listen to them, see them again in this House. And what do we do instead? What are you doing? You call him DPCM, I call it full power decree. I read it. Well, all personal and economic freedoms: you've taken everything away. What did you do it with? With a decree from the President with full powers without any constitutional foundation and, in addition to taking full powers, you have created a lot of bureaucracy: six self-certifications. When taking a walk, you had to leave the house with the subway to see if you were 200 or 201 meters away. As far as I am concerned, it is an incredible situation and I really hope with all my heart that this provision will not become law. Good work, everyone! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u149	Senator Grimani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to have made a thought which, at this time, however, seems difficult compared to the turn of the debate, which is more a reckoning on what has happened in recent weeks than a detailed analysis of the measure under consideration. I believe that the reflections and assessments on past weeks, on what has happened, on the choices made and on the difficulties, will have to be made at a later time, when the dust will be deposited, when the pandemic will be, if not really defeated, however mitigated in its proportions. Today, in reality, we are discussing the conversion of a decree-law that has a more technical-legal content than non-political, in the sense that it has become necessary to redefine the framework within which to place the measures enacted in the last few weeks; a path that began on 31 January with the resolution of the state of emergency and has continued with a series of decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that have characterized the life of our country in these weeks. The starting point, normatively speaking, is Decree-Law No. 6 of 23 February, with which in fact, we go to repeal that decree-law and, with a law of the State, converting Decree-Law No. 19, we redefine the entire legal framework that can - indeed must - also include, from the regulatory point of view, all the aspects that concerned the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that succeeded in March. I think that's our job today. I think that all the assessments cannot fail to take into account the fact that the pandemic has spilled into our country unexpectedly, like a real tsunami. We can probably make assessments of the fact that a month has been lost, in fact, in February, before preparing the most restrictive strategies. And, however, we must say that we did not expect what has happened in recent weeks, namely the difficulties that the virus has caused in everyday life, the progressiveness of the contagion, the dramatic deaths, the events of assisted health residences. All the measures were therefore dictated by the urgency and also by the dramatic development of the virus. I personally believe, however, that an important effort has been made and there is one country that has responded. I believe that the important results, particularly from the point of view of changing the hospital offer that is being discussed, must be made structural. We do not look at it at the moment; we do not make a mere assessment of the costs incurred, of the real efficiency at the time of the investments that have been made in the health field. Let's look at it in perspective. The fact that ICU posts have doubled should be seen in perspective and made structural. Moving from 5,200 intensive care jobs to 9,000 is an extraordinary value that we need to consolidate. And, therefore, also with the commitments made by the Government, with the so-called relaunch decree and with the resources coming from Europe, we must make progress in terms of health provision and hospitalization structural. The measure under consideration, in fact - as I said before - repeals the first decree that was the basis of all the measures taken then by the Government - on 6 February 2019 - and with a law of the State of conversion we go to coordinate and harmonize the initial source with all the successive instruments that have been put in place, in particular the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers that characterized the life of our country in March and then in the following weeks. We have all considered the use of the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers to regulate stages of the great restriction of constitutional freedoms. We, like Italy Viva, have expressed our doubts about the road we have taken, because we thought that Parliament should be more involved. We believe, however, that the assessments made have led to the result that the re-opening decree is not by the President of the Council, but is a decree-law that will involve Parliament in its conversion phase and, therefore, there has been progress in this respect. The President of the Council will be here tomorrow. In any case, the law of conversion contains a paragraph that provides that the Government may interrogate before the enactment of a provision with the Parliament. The legislation before us therefore contains an important possibility that will allow an effective confrontation between the Government and Parliament even before the issuing of a decree of the President of the Council. I believe that this is the aspect that should be considered most. I think it is important to make a consideration, which is also taken from the decree and therefore from the law of conversion, regarding the balance between the State and the Regions. I do not think it was a great spectacle that of the perennial confrontation between regions and state. None of us believes it is necessary to limit regional autonomy, but in situations such as these I think the central role of planning and coordination by the State, to which the regions will then have to conform. I believe that this would have ensured less institutional confusion and even less perception outside of a sort of daily battle between institutions on the preparation of different, more or less restrictive instruments. In this case the decree-law points out that the rule produced by the State is an absolute reference; then the Regions may perhaps introduce more restrictive measures, but never more permissive. I think this is something that we need to consider, because it is a misguided note in this institutional affair that has concerned the measures put in place to combat coronavirus. Ultimately, it will be important to take advantage of the path that has been taken over the past weeks and the restrictions that have led to great sacrifices for citizens, with a limitation of freedom that had never before been, at least in the recent history of the Republic. We therefore certainly have a duty to put in place an even greater political capacity to govern the current phase. We absolutely must live up to this challenge. In my opinion, we must create the conditions for the reopening of this country's economy, which is so much undermined. However, clearly, it must be done with caution, guaranteeing and encouraging respect for the fundamental and simple rules contained in the last decree, which must characterize the daily life of the coming weeks and months. It is clear that this is still a challenge to be built, because the relaunch and phase 2 are not only in the decree published in these hours, but also in the behaviors that we will have to encourage and guarantee as institutions and - above all - in the capacity to be as united as possible. It seems to me that the political context does not go in this direction, but we will have to make an effort to share as much as possible the paths and give a response as united as possible and characterized by cohesion towards the citizens, because we have complicated months before us, as evidenced by the economic data that emerge in all their drama. Efforts and determination will therefore be needed. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u151	He's enlisted to speak Senator Ciampolillo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u152	Mr President, if it were not dramatic, the current situation would certainly take the tone of the grotesque. The government has subcontracted the management of the health emergency to respectable figures, certainly never chosen by citizens to face the challenges of our nation. On all of them, such a scientist, Dr. Burioni, a new television actor, who - between one cache and another, laudably offered by public television - has literally terrified the Italian people, foreshadowing dramatic scenarios and forcing our dear Count to lock all of us poor citizens in the house. Singular, then, that both Burioni, and Count initially categorically excluded that the virus was a problem. Yet, Count certainly had the opportunity to grasp the danger coming and to prevent at least the absolute deficiency of masks and disinfectant gel. None of this. Then, when the first contagions appeared, they went to the exact opposite, with improvised and inconsistent measures that, in fact, brought to their knees the Italian economy and, above all, the already miserable budgets of most of the citizens. It is easy to say: "stay at home" when you live in luxurious residences, such as those of the various characters who invaded television with their pathetic invitations to home imprisonment. However, the most serious fact of this matter is the absolute inability of the Government to manage a huge flow of money. Here appears the great Arcuri, known state boyor, who has gone through the last fifteen years of the noble public management of the Italian economy of Invitalia and its surroundings. It is enough to read the polemics of these days to understand the greatness of this appointment, made by a President-in-Office of the Council concerned not already to address the problems of the citizens to the best of his life, but to prevent someone from shadowing his person. This is what has been defined in the press as the Alpa method (from the name of the Master of Count): better a nullity that is faithful, rather than a person capable but not controllable. The fear, however, is that Alpa has already done the same thing in the past with his pupil Count. The result is total chaos: entrepreneurs still waiting for the infamous 25,000 euros; the late Cassa Integrazione; the Agnelli family that collects tens of billions while paying taxes in the Netherlands; the banks that have transformed their chirografari credits into state guaranteed credits. Sooner or later the truth will come to light and it will emerge as this has been yet another missed opportunity for Italy. To understand the absurdity of the situation it is enough to think about what emerged in the Senate last Thursday, during the hearing of Dr. Giuseppe De Donno, of the hospital Carlo Poma of Mantua, about the positive results that is obtaining the therapy of hyperimmune plasma in the fight against the Covid-19. Well, in the face of the successes of this therapy, the Higher Institute of Health and AIFA have thought well to entrust the national study on this therapy to the university hospital in Pisa and not already to the hospitals in Mantova and Pavia. These are the words of Dr. De Donno: "Why Pisa? I don't know. I am shocked by this decision and I am shocked that the President of the Tuscany Region wants to sue me. This is politics that wants to silence science. Any city in Lombardy was fine. If you have to do a heart surgery, who has entrusted your heart, who has experience or who doesn't? And don't tell me that Tuscany has been chosen because it is better organized than Lombardy, because here we are talking about scientific protocols organized by scientists, not political maneuvers. The choice was unique: it was Pavia. And again: Pisa is not up to it, not because they are not good experimenters, but because the greatest incidence is in Lombardy, which has remained even outside, until the day before yesterday, from this experimentation. It is obvious that there will be a reason why AIFA and ISS chose to entrust Pisa with experimentation, which, among other things, failed to enlist in the first phase. They will explain it to us and I will be very ready to accept the explanations, but do not tell me that there are scientific reasons, because this cannot be the case. Dr. De Donno's words make clear the attempt by the Higher Institute of Health and AIFA to boycott the extraordinary results that hyperimmune plasma therapy is achieving, through the practice of a therapy in use for decades against hepatitis B and rabies, based on the generosity of plasma donors and not already on the desire for profit of pharmaceutical companies, which our health institutions show instead of wanting to protect. The Minister of Health, with his condescending attitude, has demonstrated his subjection to the pharmaceutical industries and not already to the legitimate interests of Italian citizens. The undersigned, during the hearing last Thursday, had the opportunity to apologize on behalf of all Italians to Dr. De Donno, who, while abroad is requested by all the best research centers, in Italy receives offense from alleged government scientists and inspections with an intimidating taste by the NAS: a shame that cannot be accepted. But there is more. To date, it is not clear how many actual victims of the Covid-19 are and how many deaths are actually related to other causes; the same is true of the contagions. You don't understand who banned autopsies. Burions? The Scientific and Technical Committee? Only through autopsies was it possible to understand the risks of therapy and intubations and so it was really possible to save human lives. Even more resounding today is the doubt as to the reliability of the swabs themselves, in fact I would say exactly the opposite, namely the certainty of the relative unreliableness of the swabs. Last Thursday, during the hearing at the Senate, Professor Ippolito of Spallanzani in Rome admitted that the swabs have enormous limits and that in essence they are not reliable at all. But then how can we expect to make choices about restrictive measures of personal freedoms or economic freedoms dependent on the results of the swabs? All this is absurd and denotes the absolute inability of this Government, which has put into the hands of some alleged scientist, promised television actor, the freedom and destiny of the citizens. Professor Ippolito has candidly admitted that tampons are a kind of cotton fioc, the result of which depends on cotton, quality and many other factors, specifying precisely that saliva is not as reliable as blood (the tests are done with saliva). Hence my doubt, colleagues, as a donor of blood and plasma (they have been giving blood for over thirty years). This morning I called the Bari Polyclinic's blood sampling center and I had confirmation that no Covid-19 tests are being carried out on blood donors. So there are three solutions. The first is that the virus cannot be transmitted through blood; and this does not seem certain to me. The second is that this virus is not dangerous in the end; and it doesn't even seem valid to me. The third, the most likely, is that we are faced with the most absolute inability of these alleged experts and technical committees, who, having no idea how to manage the emergency and justify their generous compensation, have been able to do nothing but close everyone in the house and devastate the economy of the Italians. I'll finish. Today, with this decree and with these relief rain measures and without any vision of the future, we destroy the public coffers to benefit the usual known. We're mortgaged the future of our boys. Normal citizens, as usual, may only get a little begging. There are no words. In short, we are faced with a real... [[The microphone automatically switches off]] My vote will of course be "no" to trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u153	Senator Pinotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u154	Mr President, the World Health Organisation's statement on the state of emergency is dated 30 January 2020. The next day, on 31 January, the Council of Ministers declared the state of emergency in Italy. After that, numerous measures and civil protection orders were taken; many decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers were used; there were ordinances of the Minister of Health and also ordinances of the Regions and local authorities. Much has been discussed here in the Senate, but also in the House, regarding the choice of instruments. But we must not forget - for this reason I started by remembering that an emergency was declared at that time - that we did not expect such a virulent and rapid emergency in the spread, so it was necessary to take, even with respect to that period, measures that must be included in the framework of a truly unexpected emergency also for the size of that moment. We are now entering another phase, from the point of view of mobility, for the reopening of economic and commercial exercises. It is important that at this stage, also from the point of view of the Government-Parliament relationship, there is a re-normalization of the instruments. In this sense, a motion to the House has also been approved, indicating that it is important to give priority to the decree-law, an instrument that is now being used. Compared to this, it has also been envisaged, with an amendment proposed by the Democratic Party, that should it unfortunately - hopefully not - exacerbate the situation, then still have an emergency situation, there can still be an information of the Government, as it is done for example before the European Councils, which will indicate what the choices will be before taking measures that have such an important impact on people's lives. The Decree-Law No. 19 that we are analyzing actually orders a whole series of previous measures and brings, compared to the main decree that rearranges Decree-Law No. 6 of this year, also a series of novelties. For example, it is identified on 31 July as the end of the state of emergency; it is given the possibility to alter this date on the basis of the epidemiological trend; however, the measures are repeated every thirty days; we refer to the adequacy and proportionality of the measures that must be taken. The decree-law in question therefore responds to the need for a uniform intervention in order to incorporate into an act of primary rank the individual emergency implementing measures to face the Covid-19: a legal framework to systematize numerous measures. Having said that and approving the contents of this decree-law, I allow myself to use the minutes at my disposal to make some considerations on what has taught us the management of this emergency: in the meantime, surely the value of the National Health Service (Law No. 833 of 1978). Never before have we seen the importance of the existence of this Service and its strength. Many speeches have told it: there has been a capacity for reaction, as well as a dedication from the whole world of health care, which has aroused the admiration of all, the applause from the balconies and the admiration of all of us. In very fast times in hospitals, Covid departments have been set up; safety paths have been arranged; there have been hospitals in which it was difficult to have the replacement of staff, so some people have done absolutely massacred shifts. We had an example to remember and not to forget. Above all, let us remember the value of the National Health Service and the value of the resources that we must invest in this Service. There is also a reflection to be made on the relationship between the State and the Region. There is no doubt that, in more than one moment, this relationship has been either confused or sometimes even conflicting; we can never afford it, but above all we cannot afford it in cases of emergency. So there is something in this regard that we, too, need to develop as legislators in relation to this operation. Together with the enhancement that we have all made of the National Health Service, we have also rediscovered what reminds us of Article 32 of the Constitution. In fact, the right to health is not only the right of an individual to obtain the best benefits, but in fact he exercises himself to strengthen the community and that is what we have experienced with this emergency. Well, we know that in Article 117 of the Constitution, as far as competing matters are concerned, there are a number of references and we know that the essential levels of assistance (LEA) have been included. However, we also know that it is not only important to establish these levels, but also to monitor them, because if health is a good of all, a universal good, as our Constitution recalls, as a state we have a responsibility not to concentrate health management, which would be wrong, but to verify that the right to health has lived in the same way in all parts of our country. Another focus we paid was on territorial medicine and prevention. For many years we have focused on excellence, great surgery, the most avant-garde trials and perhaps even media attention has been much greater in these areas. It is important to have excellence, but with this pandemic we have discovered that weaknesses have been shown especially where territorial medicine and prevention had left the field, because it is a much less "spectacular" medicine. It is difficult to tear patients from one region to another thanks to a territorial medicine or prevention that works. Yet this pandemic teaches us that instead that is a fundamental level, on which we must invest and that we must take more care, even by involving more doctors of general medicine, which must be absolutely part - perhaps strengthening also the convention - of this public work, which we must do for collective health. We hope to leave this epidemic behind as soon as possible, but it is not said that there can be new and different epidemics in the future and at least we must be prepared. So we must have a culture of crisis management and we must have contingency plans for any new epidemics, which we hope will never be there, but which could be there. In the same way, the dramatic experiences lived in the health care residences (RSA) tell us that the places where the elderly or people who have weaknesses are going to stay must have absolutely trained staff and cannot be places where there is no gaze and control of what is, overall, the system also formative of the staff, in addition to the adequacy of the numbers. Now it has already been decided to implement health resources for more than EUR 3 billion. I believe that we will choose to invest a lot of money in health care and it becomes essential, at this time, to spend well. It becomes fundamental, then, if we do not want them to disperse into streams, but that these resources really affect, strengthen, for example, the design structures and the purchasing power stations. Even within the Ministry of Health we need the central design and control capacity to be such, that it can then affect and actually be a guide for territorial levels. That is what I wanted to say about health care. All of us then reflected on the fact that we must revise Title V of the Constitution, perhaps also defining by specific ordinary laws the subjects of exclusive and concurrent competence. The Democratic Party has submitted a draft constitutional law to reinsert the supremacy clause, essentially by entering two points. Meanwhile, by regulating the State-Regions Conference, which at this stage was very important, but which in fact is not regulated and should instead be regulated, so that its importance is regulated, with respect to the acts it then assumes, and then defining a clause of supremacy. Where there is national interest, which must be reinstated, there must be an opportunity for the State to intervene. Some believe that this is already possible in the current Constitution, but in this experience we have seen that too many things have not worked at times as they should have done in the relationship between the State and the Regions. I therefore think that we need Parliament's intervention on this. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u155	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Emanuele. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u156	Mr President, I begin my speech with a number: 607,863, to the attention of Senator Coltorti. The Lombardy Region is the region that has carried out several swabs throughout Italy. [[Applause.]] I do not accept that, in a debate on a decree-law that deals far from Lombardy, falsehoods are being said - because these are falsehoods - and an attack is being made on an institution, but above all on a population that has suffered a tragedy. I say this to Senator Coltorti, of whom I, until today, had great esteem: I have lost some young friends, I have lost some people who were dear to me and I do not accept that a situation of this kind should be attacked instrumentally. [[Applause]] For weeks we have been faced with totally instrumental, bi-political attacks, which have nothing to do with the analysis of that very tragic situation that we have had to face. I want to see you, locked in the house, with a seven-year-old boy, like I did, listening to ambulances in the street on ambulances, people dying and certainly not because of the shortcomings of the Lombard service. [[Comments]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u157	I would ask you, on these issues, to let the speaker speak. Everyone can appreciate it or not, but I don't think it's arguments on which we can make controversy or disturb.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u158	[[Applause.]] You're welcome, Senator. PELLEGRINI Emanuele (L-SP-PSd'Az). I turn to Movimento 5 Stars, to Senator Coltorti. Today we are here to discuss the conversion of a decree-law that was presented by President Conte, Minister Hope, Minister Bonafede and Minister Gualtieri. Where are they? Where am I today discussing this thing, what, in fact, is an administrative maxisanatoria? That's what it is. [[Applause.]] We simply witnessed: a decree-law that passed to the House, which was launched on March 25 and passed to the House on May 14th. What day is it? Is this Parliament's centrality? Is this respect for the representatives of the people? [[Applause.]] It's easier to attack Lombardy. But let's go see the other regions what they did, the numbers they had to suffer; Let's see them, let's figure out what the problem is. I appreciate - although I disagree - the intervention of Senator Pinotti: do we want to make a reflection? Let's do it, but let's do it quietly, without using the media, without using them bietically to try to attack a political part. [[Applause.]] Because that's how you do politics. Since I've been listening to small speeches in these classrooms and they've always taught me that in here you have to do politics, you don't have to bear your own personal grudge. And I'm sorry if I'm bringing him today, because I'm Lombard today, I'm Brianza and I'm proud to be! [[Applause.]] I don't accept when you defy the honor of my land. In this measure we had to talk about balance, about respect for the Constitution. Where is the respect of the Constitution? Let us go and heal ex post administrative acts, as other colleagues have already said. What are we talking about? [[Applause.]] The decree-law, as I said, is a maxisanatoria. The debate was totally non-existent, because it took place only in the Chamber of Deputies: you know, we in the Senate do not count anything. The amendments were rejected in bulk. I personally have tabled amendments which brought this House back to the centre, but not because we want to have the last word, but because, even at an emerging stage, only one man in command, such as President Conte, himself, can be mistaken. We believe that he has made a great deal of mistakes, but in general anyone can make a mistake. We must remind President Conte and the whole Government to listen, which is a rare dowry today. [[Applause.]] Listening is the first dowry. If we don't listen, sooner or later we're wrong. [[Applause.]] Where's President Conte? This is a decree for him because this, as I said before, serves to fill the gaps of constitutionality that perhaps we have forgotten. We are here to say: President Conte, what you have done before is fine; we give you the opportunity to decide our lives. I do not accept it and I do not give my life to President Conte, I give it to Parliament, because this is where we have to decide the rules. In President Count I see the one who attacked the Lombardy Region the most. Let's remember that! But when it is said that there must be institutional respect between the regions and the central state, it must be mutual. I saw when the President-in-Office of the Council did not listen in the slightest to the appeals that came from the regions. He never listened because he had to go to D'Urso. [[Applause.]] President Fontana has locked himself in his offices to be near the administrative machine. Where was President Conte? What is President Conte in the end? He's a student who misses his homework. The teacher takes him back: he signs the justification - because if he signs it alone - and at the time of the repair exam, here, he sends someone else. With all due respect, Deputy Minister, send someone else. In my home, the repair exams must be done by those who have been delayed and this Government, President Count in particular, has been postponed and you will return home sooner or later! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u159	Senator Rizzotti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u160	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, four days after the expiry of this decree-law, we are in this House discussing something that has already passed, and that is truly unworthy, because it represents the chaos that the Government has been able to create in these months of emergency. Since the beginning of the Covid emergency Italians have been forced to stay in their homes, but also and above all to suffer a spectacularization of the events that followed in recent months that has certainly not honored the institutions. The government's communicative line is worthy of one of the worst episodes of the "Big Brother" - on the other hand - because in search of twists, constant spectacularizations and downfalls of style. The press conferences of the President-in-Office of the Council on the most difficult days of the health emergency, always started behind unified networks, the use of Facebook instead of institutional channels, the decrees first announced and then made enforceable and, ultimately, the arrogance to respond to journalists are the emblem of a cynical and tasteless communication strategy. This spectacularization certainly lost that little credibility. Forza Italia in recent months has had a responsible attitude; it has tried to provide proposals and solutions for the emergency to be contained. It has never been heard, like all the opposition's proposals. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u161	Colleagues, I would ask you to let the senator speak with a little serenity.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u162	Mr Rizzotti (FIBP-UDC). Thank you, President. Perhaps the government's idea will be all right was to create a loss of GDP of 9%, to regularize 600,000 irregulars, to expel Parliament in every decision and to lose patience, as well as hope, to 60 million Italians. The system has not worked and it does not work because the Government does not assume its responsibilities, because it is unable to plan, organize and make important decisions that go in the direction of the needs of the citizens. There are so many examples that I would need a month for my speech. But let me give you an example. The emergency commissioner announces in magna pump the masks at 0.50 cents and makes jokes about those who raise doubts calling them sofa liberals. After a week, however, he does not know how to justify the fact that the masks are impossible to find and first dumps responsibility on customs and then pharmacists. Well, he shouldn't have resigned: he should have kicked himself. Commissioner Arcuri shows that he is incompetent and arrogant every time he speaks. Of course, Senator Pinotti, the Regions have suffered a great chaos and have complained from the beginning about the lack of dialogue and organization at the central level. It would have been possible to overcome everything without Commissioners, without spending more public money, simply by using the instrument that was the only one at the central health level that has never failed the results and I am referring to the National Agency for Regional Health Services. But the director was uncomfortable, since the spoil system had already been applied and the Minister of Health began to make disturbing choices, not to mention Bolsheviks, all the more at a dramatic time like what we were experiencing, in emergency and this emergency is exploiting to bring health back to the central level, not to improve it, but to a pure political power. As in 2001 for three votes by the center-left majority, knowing that it would win the center-right, has been changed the Title V to favor the Regions that were mostly red, so now, knowing that the Regions, when they will be able to vote also the next ones, will be the majority of different colors, then they try to take away the power to the Regions commissionering the health. In general, one gets to commissioner an agency for criminal infiltrations or budgetary problems, but AGENAS, with the management of Bevere, had distinguished itself for efficiency and transparency, closing even with an asset of six million euros. The new commissioner, according to the new norms, will have special powers that will end after twelve months from the end of the Covid, but what is more concerned is that he will take orders from the Minister of Health and from the direction of the Ministry, losing all autonomy in supporting the Regions and it is good that today all the city councilors of the Regions, unanimously, have voted against this decision of the Government, but the plan is clear: as we had also prophesied, it becomes clearer by rereading the decree throwing again. We take note that the Ministry will employ in rain for titles and exams: the obvious take on authority of a Minister ready to put his men to manage public health without any interference. This draft is also supported by the Movimento 5 Stars, having presented a bill for the reform of Title V, but at the same time we have a Deputy Minister who complains about transparency in the acts: we had to resort to observers in the meetings of the Scientific Committee, because the acts of the decisions taken are secret. I think the Ministry of Health will soon lower the tricolor flag to let the red one wave with scythe and hammer, I don't know. This will not happen, because I hope that soon, as soon as the emergency has passed, the Italians will wave the flag of freedom with their vote. Speaking of freedom, liberalising 600,000 irregular immigrants with the excuse that there is no work in the camps sums up all the hypocrisy of the left. Instead of doing the same as France, where 200,000 unemployed and Cassaintegrati have made themselves available, in Italy rather than resorting to citizens' income recipients or vouchers as has been proposed, immigrants are regularized. You know what the joke is? It is that those who have to hire them will have to pay 500 euros to the state for their regularization! We are in the hands of a Government that approves in May the decree April, we are to 20 May and thousands of Italians still have to receive 600 euros relative to the month of March, or the Cassa Integrazione and have expired the terms on the stop to the dismissals previewed from the Italy cure, that has exposed in this last week the workers to possible layoffs. If Italian companies worked like the state, they would fail after a day. Yet someone has also allowed himself to assume to enter the boards of directors, perhaps to learn to work, which many of you have never done before to sit on the benches of the government and unfortunately you see. A President-in-Office of the Council with both legislative and executive powers is a dangerous precedent. Parliament, as we have seen, has been ignored and compliments on the good choices. We will not forget that night at the Milan station, the thousand self-certifications, the government's FAQs, the administrative sanctions by bloodshed. Fortunately then Forza Italia, with the Mandelli amendment to the House, reduced them. It was shameful to see disabled people locked in the house without 600 euro bonuses, without recognition for caregivers, without support or social and health care and at the same time see drug traffickers and mob boss who had house arrests. I remember then that today 105 members of the Calabrian 'ndrangheta were discovered, thanks to heaven (there will still be many), to receive the income of citizenship. Well, you do it. In the face of this dramatic situation, President Conte has not done any mea culpa and, instead, with arrogance and superficiality, he does not answer the uncomfortable questions of journalists by doing the funny, saying: when you are in my place he will decide what to do. Well, anyone in his place could do better by now. We had to wait two months before the so-called relaunch decree-law was issued, without thinking about the night of the hand or countermanine: the shops and activities were to reopen the following day and there were still no guidelines. I believe that the powers of fire, lords of the majority, are dying with the tears that every day we see pouring to the Italians in difficulty! Instead, I wish that our country could light a new fire, starting again from the hope and pride of having passed such a critical phase and the merit of this is only the doctors, nurses and health workers who, despite this Government, have been able to achieve important goals; people to whom you have given 70 euros and removed maybe 1,000 euros of bonuses. I also think of autopsies made despite the prohibition of the Ministry of Health, which were the only way to understand how you could fight the Covid. In England a study was conducted, published just two days ago, thanking us for this. I think of Professor Crisanti, who made the reagents in the lab. To Senator Ciampolillo, who wondered why Professor De Donno and his hospital were ignored, I reply that it happened because he was no friend of anyone, unlike the hospital in Pisa, Tuscany, a red region, well recommended by some majority party. Fortunately, at least now, thanks to our battles and our questions, we are at 56 centers to experiment with plasmotherapy, and whoever you mean. I shall conclude by saying that certainly those rebels, as you have considered them, have shown that they know more than those who gave them rules. We too are rebels, we would have preferred to be heard more, but we will continue to carry out our demands in the name of all the citizens of this country, because we want to fuel the hope that millions of Italians have to leave with caution, but to let Italy win again and send you home. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u163	She is registered to speak Senator Evangelista. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u164	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in its resolution of 31 January 2020, the Council of Ministers declared for six months (i.e. until 31 July 2020) the state of national emergency as a result of the health risk associated with the emergence of diseases from communicable viral agents. The duration of 6 months shall be extendable and renewable if necessary for a further six months. Well, in such a dramatic situation, from the very beginning constitutional, political bodies, with the connivance of some media, have fueled divisions between majority and opposition, doubts, wars between state and regions, suspicions of suspension of Parliament's activity, which in reality has never been closed and has never stopped. Perhaps, however, that political part that with lockdown has lost the squares thought of going back to work precisely with the health crisis, unnecessarily occupying the classrooms of the Chambers in the same way as the students of the university assemblies. However, the citizens are not stupid or uninformed and know that nothing has been done by this Government without proper legitimacy and without ratification of Parliament. The same resolution that declared the state of national emergency is not the result of the arbitrary action of the President of the Council, as it was made to be understood in a derogatory way in these classrooms, but of the application of laws in force in our legal system. This is first of all Article 7 of Legislative Decree No. 1 of 2018, that is the Civil Protection Code, which even provides for the Government to declare the state of national emergency for twelve months, which can be extended for no more than another twelve months. However, the resolution finds legitimacy also in another norm of primary rank, even previous, that is the law n. 59 of 2012, which states that in case of natural disasters, disasters or other events, the Council of Ministers, on proposal of the President, deliberates the state of emergency, determining its duration and territorial extension, in strict reference to the quality and nature of the events. The same procedure shall be used for the possible withdrawal of the conditions. It is therefore clear that all the controversy that has arisen in recent months about President Conte's intention to hide the emergency or the unconstitutionality of the resolution and even less than that of the delay is unfounded. Suffice it to point out that the World Health Organisation's emergency statement, published publicly on its website, is dated 30 January 2020 and thus also its recommendations to the community regarding the need to implement appropriate measures. It is always January 30th the first case in Italy of Covid-19, that is the two Chinese tourists in Milan, then hospitalized at Spallanzani in Rome. However, immediately after the resolution of 31 January, but before the lockdown of 9 March, the Council of Ministers issued Decree-Law No 6 of 2020, with which it adopted urgent measures on the containment and management of the epidemiological emergency by Covid-19. The famous decree-law from which the hashtag came out I stay at home. In the evening, President Conte signed the first decree of the President of the Council of Ministers for implementation, providing, among other things, in the municipalities and in the areas, from which at least one person, for whom the source of transmission was not known, was positive, that the competent authorities were required to take all appropriate and proportionate containment measures to the evolution of the epidemiological situation. As a result, red areas were established in the municipalities of Lombardy and Veneto. We recall, among the various measures adopted, the prohibition of expulsion, the prohibition of access to the municipality to the area concerned, the suspension of educational services of children, schools, educational trips, the suspension of the public opening of museums, the application of quarantine with active supervision and the related sanctions. Also in implementation of Decree-Law No 6 of 2020, the decree of the President of the Council of Ministers of 25 February 2020 was adopted in order to introduce further restrictive measures on sporting events and restrictions in prisons. It is true, yes, that several decrees of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers were followed, including measures which certainly restricted the fundamental freedoms of citizens, but which were necessary at that time, to the extent that they even extended all the measures that had been said throughout the national territory; they also provided for the closure of shops, other than those of food and pharmacies, and the closure of all production activities. This is how we arrive at 24 March, when the Council of Ministers approves the decree-law that we are preparing to vote today, already approved in the Chamber of Deputies, which absorbs Decree-Law No 6 of 2020. Here, then, it appears evident from this brief excursus, that there has never been any violation of the hierarchy of sources by the Government, which instead through two fundamental decree-laws, No. 6 and, then, No. 19 and, therefore, rules of primary rank, with the full legitimacy of the body which holds the legislative power and representative of the sovereign people, Parliament, has been able through the consequent acts of implementation of high administration, such as the decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, to manage the state of emergency health by pandemic. He has done so on several occasions, with caution and caution, whenever this was required by the current epidemiological situation and always in order to limit the fundamental rights guaranteed by the Constitution to citizens as little as possible, in terms of degrees and as little as possible. Then, gentlemen, it is not possible to understand all the instrumental accusations that have been made in recent months by the oppositions, which have spoken improperly of the suspension of democracy, have racked up the violation of even constitutional norms. This in order to put in trouble a government in the middle of a pandemic, as if other rulers, instead of those who found themselves in this situation, could have done better. Who, then, says that the Constitution has been violated, does not know our legal order, that is, the powers to issue the DPCM, which are not at all full powers. It is the same Constitution that considers it admissible that the ordinary law assigns to the administrative authority the issuing of regulatory acts, provided that the law indicates the criteria suitable to delimit the discretion of the body to which the power has been attributed. So, no coups, as a political party has irresponsibly stated, but a responsible government, which has acted and not without pain. I can't help but remember Conte's tears on TV, because compressing constitutional rights isn't a painless operation. In the House, with an amendment to the decree-law that we are called to vote today, the MPCMs have been parliamentaryized, i.e. it has been established that from now on - let us remember that we are in phase 2, that of easing the restrictive and restrictive measures of the guaranteed constitutional rights - the DPCMs must be presented to Parliament by the President of the Council of Ministers before or at least within fifteen days of its adoption. In fact, tomorrow President Conte will come to the Chambers to explain to us the DCCM of 17 May. Mr President, I would like to end with one wish: that this country will recover as soon as possible from both economic shock and health collapse, and that there is no need for DPCM anymore, because that means that we are no longer in a state of emergency. I thank the whole House. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u165	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u166	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u167	Mr President, I will be very brief. I have listened with interest to everything that has been said and I have also taken notes. Reaffirming the sovereignty of this House, I must say - and I speak as a doctor rather than a Deputy Minister and a politician - that I have found things right in most of the speeches made by several speakers. The truth is that it is difficult today to draw sums: we have 33,000 dead and others we have before us. We'll talk about this for days, months, years, decades. I find it wrong what has been said about Lombardy: I do not accuse anyone; I believe that Lombardy has experienced a drama, and from the words of Senator Pellegrini the drama of having lost friends is evident. I don't think this is the time to say who did it wrong and who did it right. I believe, however, that it is time to say that in this war those who make less mistakes win, and how wrong we have - who of us has made a mistake - we will only find out in the years to come. I am really inviting everyone, and I speak as a doctor because this hurts the doctor and my colleagues, those who stand in the front line, those who died, those who were with their bare hands. [[Applause.]] The devices are missing. Lombardy has experienced a real drama, and I don't feel like saying if something was wrong or not. I can't say it first, and I'm a doctor; I'm the only doctor in the government. I am talking to my colleagues and, despite everything, I cannot say who was wrong. So I invite everyone in here to do the same thing. I invite anyone to respect the more than 32,000 deaths and those before us, because, unfortunately, still someone else will die. I've heard of therapies; I've heard of deficiencies in autism. I've heard of so many shortcomings. Surely many things could have been done better, but Senator Pinotti said well: tonight, each of us, when he comes home, close your eyes, turn off the phone, take a quarter of an hour and think again about how he lived on January 29, when we discovered the first two Chinese tourists positive in Rome, until February 21st came the first positive in Codogno, and then slowly arrives until today. You will see that probably none of us will be able to say if we really could do better, even if in hindsight it is certainly easier, but remember the three months just passed, remember the over 32,000 dead, remember the doctors, the nurses. None of us will be able to say how many deaths we would have had if Italy had not been closed, probably six times as many as we have observed today. We're gonna talk about this for a lot of years. So, please, have respect for everyone. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u168	Thank you, Mr Deputy Minister, I was thinking of giving the floor directly to the Minister, but your speech was appreciated. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u169	Mr President, ladies Senators and Senators, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I raise the question of trust in the approval without amendments or additional articles of the single article of bill No 1811 of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 19 of 25 March 2020, introducing urgent measures to deal with the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, in the text identical to that approved in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u170	The Presidency notes that the question of trust has been placed on the approval of the bill of conversion into law, with amendments, of Decree-Law No 19, in the text identical to that approved by the Chamber of Deputies. I suspend the session waiting for President Alberti Casellati to convene the Conference of the Leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to those who forewarned the speeches at the end of the sitting that it seems more appropriate to postpone them until tomorrow because I cannot tell you when we could resume the work. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 7.55 p.m. and resumed at 8.47 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u171	The Conference of the Leaders has organised work on the question of trust posed by the Government on the bill of conversion of the decree-ecological emergency law Covid-19, in the text approved by the Chamber of Deputies. At tomorrow's sitting, the final explanations of vote will take place from 9.30 a.m. and call it. Senators will enter the Chamber in groups of 50 every ten minutes, starting with members of the Government and express their vote with passage to the center of the Chamber and immediately exit the Chamber through the back door. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting also provides, at 12, the information of the President of the Council of Ministers on the measures for the new phase relating to the epidemiological emergency from Covid-19, while the discussion of the decree-law on the conclusion of the school year is postponed to the session on Tuesday 26 May. On Tuesday 26 May, at 3 p.m., the Conference of Leaders is convened.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u172	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-05-20-LEG18-Senato-sed-219.ana.u173	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Thursday 21 May, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 8.49 p.m.)
