ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 16.31 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Giro, secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 6 February. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u3	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u4	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday afternoon I participated, together with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Council of Ministers and other representatives of the Government, in the celebrations for the Day of remembrance of the victims of the Foibe and the Giuliano-Dalmata exodus that took place in our own legislative room. A ceremony full of emotions in which they took part, in addition to various exiles, their families, children and grandchildren of the victims of the persecuted, also many students from all over the country; attentive and sensitive young people, especially curious to deepen the reasons, the size, the tragicity of what we know today was a genocide of unprecedented ferocity and the most serious massacre of Italians carried out in time of peace. A truth for too long hidden, silent, guiltfully forgotten by the institutions, historians and media, condemned to oblivion by an unacceptable anti-historical, anti-Italian, anti-human negationism. A national tragedy that, like wars, racial hatred, mass exterminations, has annihilated all forms of humanity and in the face of which memory represents an opportunity of ransom, an opportunity to render justice to the dead of the foibe, to the hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen torn from their lands and their families, to children and to all innocent people, victims of persecution, hatred and indifference. To study, to understand, to remember, to disseminate, to pass on everything, every page of our history, even the most painful and wretched. Memory is the greatest wealth we can leave to the new generations, to those who will come after us. A wealth that we have the duty to build with responsibility and honesty, without veils or ideological censorship. A patrimony of awareness and values that is an antidote to all forms of violence or intolerance, that is the cornerstone of an ever more open and democratic society, that is the foundation of an ever more peaceful, ever more dialogue and free future. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u5	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u6	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u7	CASINI (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, your words have been so clear, clear and clear that frankly I do not want to risk ruining them by adding something. I just want to say that I am pleased, as President of the House at the time, that I have worked for this law to be passed, that it gives us the value of memory. You said that a few minutes ago: memory is something to be cultivated together, because history must be known especially for the younger generations. We are talking, in this case, of hundreds of thousands of Italians, victims of a harsh persecution, who in those years lived a double exile: the first from their land and the second, in many ways even more difficult to support, from the memory of their own nation. The silence and reservations of the past have finally been erased and I say that this is a fact that honours the Parliament that instituted that law and all of us who participate in this ceremony. I just want to add, in the final, a consideration that concerns the controversy. Of course, we know that historical reconstruction can lead to controversy, but if we use the moments of common collective sentiment to make controversy, I believe that we miss a great opportunity, a great appointment that gives us, instead, the moral obligation to remember together, each with its own accents and with its own political opinions, but by making mature a collective sentiment, which is what we must pass on to our young people. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV),PD and IV-P.S.I. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u8	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u10	NENCINI (IV-PSI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are finally in a position to write a biography of the nation. Nations can only write their biography if there is - as a great French historian, Renan - a common feeling. On the history of the foibe and the Italians on the other hand (and it falls perfectly, as President Casini recalled earlier, the Day of Remembrance, standing since 2004) a terrible blanket of silence has been laid out. In fact, foibes represent - even worse - a terrible example of mutilation of history and truth. The truth can be historically manipulated mainly in three ways and the story of the foibe represents a perfect manipulation of this triangle of truth. The truth can be silenced: we have long kept silent the opportunism of Italian communism in the face of the titine massacre. The truth can be twisted, and it is the second condition, the second side of this triangle: it can be twisted to throw it at someone else, to exploit it for political purposes; in this case, as has sometimes happened in history, to use it for nationalist purposes. Then there is a third case: the truth can also be profaned and it is the worst of the sides of this triangle. It can be profaned when we try to untie it from the historical context in which that truth has been realized, we forget its roots, origin and identity, even if remembering the origins does not apply to drawing a justification. Trieste is a border city; for many decades it has remained a border city and not a border city. The difference is that the borders are made to be crossed, the borders instead delimit an insurmountable history. Yet, boundaries serve to mark identities. Each one of us, without identity, would have no roots. But often identities lead to closure and closure leads to nationalism. The truth of the foibe can be summarized with a very simple reading, without wanting to diminish it: in the twenty years the fascist oppression towards the Slav minority; the Yugoslav reclaim, under Titus and under the sign of totalitarianism titino, which was terrifying; the annexation of Italian lands, because Rijeka and Istria were Italian lands; infoibati a quantity not yet established for sure of Italians; 300,000 Italians fleeing, deprived of nationality, deprived of rights, ignored and denied to be fascists (and many cases had not been) and, even if they were, their political being does not justify absolutely what happened. I like to define them, as a historian, only Italian, just like that brand of bicycles that, not by chance, has its origin in those lands and that is the Wilier. Wilier is the acronym of "Viva l'Italia libera e redenta" and is the representation of an extraordinary and terrible history of this Italy. We should - and I say this in closing, President - stop beyond any other controversy, pray to the dead, ask forgiveness to the living and not use the past to revoke and cultivate revenge and, what would be worse, to blow on the fire of diversity. [[Applause from Groups IV-P.S.I., PD and Aut (SVP-PATT. UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u11	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u12	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u13	THE RUSSIAN (FdI). Mr President, I will be strong and I will not argue with the previous speaker, who, even with polite words, offers some support to the negationist or reductionist theses, speaking of cause, effect, of those who did the same and of those who did the other. Under no circumstances and against no one can be considered, I say not acceptable, but imaginable the horror that the Titino communists reserved to the Italians of any political idea and of any belonging for the mere fact of being proud citizens of their nation and their homeland. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Yesterday I was - and I thank the left junta of Milan for this - at the inauguration of the garden for Norma Cossetto, a 22-year-old girl who was first raped, raped and then thrown into a foiba. I met her sister, who is now missing, while the grandchildren were present at the inauguration. I was lucky enough to have, over the years, the information and the news, long before, in 2004, during the first Berlusconi Government, when I was National Alliance Leader, we succeeded with the competition not of all - I stress: not of all - but of a very large majority of Parliament, to have the law of remembrance passed, which put an end to the word "oblied." [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] That law closed a part of that deafening silence that for reasons of pure opportunism had involved not only the Communists, dear colleague. It would be too easy: he had involved the Communists, the Christian Democrats, the Socialists, the Republicans, all those who had ruled in those years, otherwise it would be too easy. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] Since the pot was now uncovered and could no longer be silenced, it began and grows year after year, President, a reductionist or even negationist attempt: even the excesses of a so-called comic scribe or cartoonist, who still insults in an ignominious way today those who paid with their lives for belonging to Italy. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] You get to have, here in a Senate Chamber, a negational conference, with a ban on those who are not invited to attend. You get, in several municipalities, to deny the halls to exiles of that time who want to remember their drama. He's growing up. But I say, if the truth was different, why did you keep her silent for sixty years? [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] If the truth is what you are telling today, dear Senator Nencini, why haven't you said so in these 60 years? What was wrong with that? Because it matches effect. There must have been a reason for you to shut up and hide this event. Well, thankfully, two Presidents of the Republic have thought about it, after we as center-right had gotten the Day of Remembrance. The first was President Ciampi, who gave the gold medal to Norma Cossetto that today someone still, like today's Republic, calls "the Fascist": a girl of twenty-two years raped and puffed up, without having any specific membership. And even if she was a fascist, would it be justified what they did to her? And it wasn't either. The second is President Sergio Mattarella, who yesterday silenced any negationary hypothesis. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Thank you, Mr President, and thanks to those administrations, even on the left, which are doing their duty, but there is still much to be done for this date, this opportunity to be remembered, like others that we all remember when it comes to branding the massacres of any kind. There is a long way to go, Mr President, for this date to be an opportunity for national unity and I appeal to all of you to make this happen in a much more choral way than this year too. I believe that it is precisely this branch of Parliament, because of its awareness and history, that we can do what we need to do. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u14	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Liceo Linguistico - Montessori-Repetti - in Carrara, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u15	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u16	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u17	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as has already been mentioned by previous speakers, the Day of Remembrance was set up by a very large majority in 2004, an important and positive choice, to compensate for the silences, underestimations and reductive analyses of the years behind us. I want to say at once that it is important that all of us, apart from the different political positions, are able to give value to this choice and also to historical research, which, however, must go on to make full light on that tragedy and reconstruct the memory, too long dispersed and denied. From this point of view, there is a clear condemnation of this tragedy, without whether or not it is a clear condemnation; a closeness to the victims, to all the victims beyond their political position; an effort to understand the reasons for that tragic historical event. I have no uncertainty about condemning the former Yugoslavia of Marshal Titus for the responsibility for that tragedy, without any justification, because that tragedy cannot be justified in any other way and for any other reason. Having said that, I am interested to stress the need for a deepening and historical research; to do so, I want to try to stay away - as this celebration deserves - from any political reluctance or exploitation, which would risk getting everything into a blender and which would make it difficult to understand what happened. If we want it never to happen again, it must be clear, through that effort of research and recomposition of national unity, the ability to understand its reasons. Then there is no need to make rankings on dramas and tragedies, but one thing was the Shoah, which meant annihilating and erasing a people, one thing was the slaughter of the foibes, the daughter of a rage and a hatred not justifiable for any reason; another thing is to condemn with clarity and clarity, without ever diminishing it, the primary responsibility of Nazi-fascistism, because these tragedies originate in the story of World War II. I repeat: with determination go forward historical research, without unnecessary propaganda, without any removal, with rigour and seriousness. This is the service we owe to the new generations and to honour the victims of that tragedy. [[Applause from the Mixed-LEU and PD Groups and Senator Di Marzio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u18	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u19	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u20	ROJC (PD). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, preserving the memory of the tragedy of Italians and of all the victims of foibe and forced exodus from their lands, spreading their knowledge to young people through school and every educational garrison is certainly only partial compensation for the long decades during which oblivion and removal were the address to which republican institutions were attached. The foibes were too long a word that divided and weighed on the balance of ideologies that in the twentieth century pierced the heart of Europe and for which my national community, the Slovenian one, paid a very high price. Those chasms were an ideological delirium in which there was no shortage of opportunities even to settle private accounts. Every war is dirty and these victims must be considered as victims of the Second World War. In times when the password was to forget, there were those who kept the memory: it is also the merit of the work tenacious and long rendered by the associations of the exiles. Many families were silently able to rebuild their lives, even establishing themselves in the world, often in the new lands to which they migrated in search of better luck. That of our mothers and fathers was the generation of young people without youth, and it was my land that paid a very high price: let us read what Marisa Madieri tells us as an Istrian exile in her "Green water" without rhetoric and without feelings of hatred. Many remained in Trieste, which became the real moral capital of the exodus. These are tangible signs of a new climate, of a new awareness that the approval, by a very large majority, of the founding law of the Day of Remembrance has come to seal. I would like to look at that moment as a manifestation of high political responsibility in which we have known and wanted to look forward, without forgetting what has been for everyone. These are institutional acts that the Italian Republic has carried out by bringing justice to an evil immediately. I believe that in the new and clearer light projected by Europe on what was the eastern border it should be possible to hope for a sharing of individual tragedies: they all had their innocent victims. And perhaps dwelling together on a painful memory will be an opportunity for an even closer sharing of the future. Of course, I understand that it is difficult for many to hear appeals for reconciliation. Experiences and individual wounds are not cold historical facts or objective stages from which one can take leave by acts of will. I, who do not want to lose hope in the subjective gift of inner peace, bow with respect to those who have experienced abuse, violence and exile. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-P.S.I. and Mixed]] Building a better future is a heavy task, of great responsibility. Those who talk about memory and memories understand that memories cannot be shared but must be respected because in the war there are no winners and losers; there are victims, and they deserve the respect of memory, certainly not the offense of being forgotten. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-P.S.I., Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u21	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u22	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u23	MARIN (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, yesterday, on memory day, I was present at the foiba 149 in Monrupino. Dear Senator colleagues, in Friuli-Venezia Giulia, land I represent here in the Senate, every stone has a cry, a lament that cannot be debased or, worse still, forgotten. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On these lands the holocaust of the foibe was consumed at the hands of the ferocity of the Yugoslav titines, with the complicity of the Italian communists. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups]] But at worst, gentlemen, there is never an end. Yesterday, in fact, while Basovizza was celebrating the Day of remembrance, in Trieste, in the center, a small group was waving flags and banners: they appeared like rats in the night. In Piazza della Borsa foreign flags were waving, the flag of the former Yugoslavia with the red star, to protest against the ceremony that was taking place in Basovizza for the martyrs of the foibe. All this can not make sense and it will never make sense if we do not fully accept what happened in these lands by hand titine from 1943 to 1947, after war ended. In Trieste in the forty days of terror following the occupation by the militias of Titus, thousands of people were infoibated (new verb) and their bodies were measured in volumes, in cubic meters: Basovizza housed 500 cubic meters of corpses, practically 2,500, more or less. Their only fault was that of being Italians of Venice Julia or Dalmatia or only that of having been faithful servants of the institutions, such as the financiers and the carabinieri [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az and FIBP-UDC Groups]] The procedures of the infibition you know them: you used iron wire and few bullets to save lead. The massacre of the Italians of Venice Julia, Istria and Dalmatia was the most regrettable after the unification of Italy. In those years States, governments and politicians were all accomplices of the executioners and with the redistribution of borders were the main cause of the exodus of 350,000 Italians of Istria, Rijeka and Dalmatia, forced to abandon their own affections, their own land, their own roots in order to become exiles of the world, exiled and sold out by those who instead should have protected them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] For this reason the League has submitted a bill containing provisions concerning the granting of the option to purchase property of the State and public assets in favour of the owners of the goods, rights and interests abandoned in the territories transferred to Yugoslavia. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The leader of the Italian Communist Party Palmiro Togliatti, in a letter to Vincenzo Bianco, his man in Trieste, wrote that the more part of Italy would become Yugoslavia, the more part of Italy would be free. Thus, in those places that until recently were Italy, the properties were nationalized and given to people of Slavic ethnicity. There are many testimonies of what happened; I know with certainty that many of you here today listened directly to them by their relatives, protagonists of those dramatic events. In the text that was presented in September last year, an important resolution of the European Parliament has once again lit up and has duly shed light on the history of the twentieth century, comparing the crimes of communist regimes with those of Nazism and that is why the Lega-Salvini Group Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione has tabled a motion for the withdrawal of the honor given to Marshal Tito from the Italian Republic. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups]] Personally, I am convinced that pacification can only be based on the recognition of suffering, reworking the past to build positivity. In this sense, I invite those who still try to transform this chapter of history into a collective psychosis to come to Basovizza or Monrupino to the foiba 149 (not the third), to kneel and apologize. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, FIBP-UDC and FdI Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u24	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u25	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u26	Gasparri (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, I would like to thank you for your words today and for the words you spoke in this House yesterday, together with other representatives of the institutions of the Republic. Mr President, we knew, but many, too many, denied. We went many, even forty years ago, to the plateau of Basovizza with the tricolor, to pay homage to that story. In the post-war period, it took 35 years for Basovizza to be declared a monument of national interest in 1980. It took forty-six years for a President of the Republic, Cossiga, to bow down to the death of Basovizza in 1991. It took fifty-nine years for the law of the Day of Remembrance to be passed in 2004, and it took forty-seven years for the monument of Basovizza to be declared, in 1992, a national monument. How long will it take for those "sacche" of despicable militant negationism to disappear? These are the words of Sergio Mattarella, President of the Republic. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Will it take more decades? Tombstones are slammed: this is serious, like other writings and other slammed tombstones. The indignation, however, sometimes starts in a different way. We also saw someone who, in Lecce, spoke of "presunte foibe" speaking of the aforementioned Norma Cossetto. I thank the City of Rome, which today decided, with a vote against, of which I am surprised, to give the honorary citizenship of Rome to Norma Cossetto, obviously to memory. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This is a wise choice. I therefore believe that we must overcome the indifference, even of the school, because in schools we must say more. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] And I say this by saying goodbye to the students and the teachers. Today, the RAI Supervisory Committee has unanimously decided to ask President Barachini, who is sitting in this House as a senator, to write a letter to the public service, because minimalism has been exaggerated: let us also speak at the first evening of the day of remembrance and not on Rai Movie or on other channels! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] The Supervisory Committee was unanimous today in asking President Barachini to write a letter of reminder to Rai. This "national sciagura" - said Mattarella - asks for truth: truth about complicity in extermination and truth about chapters to be known, like the massacre of Vergarolla, which should be remembered. We remember, as Mattarella said, innocent people, guilty only of being Italian and being seen as an obstacle to the plan of territorial conquest and revolutionary hegemony of Titoist communism. "The aggressiveness" said Mattarella, "of the new communist regime" forced the Italians with terror and persecution, to abandon their own homes, their own companies, their own lands. Those who resisted, those who opposed, those who did not integrate into the new totalitarian order, said the President of the Republic, "disappeared, swallowed up in nothing." We knew and those who denied knew how we did. The Head of State said again that the violent arm of the communist regime was furiously breaking down history, diversity, pluralism, coexistence, under a gloomy hood of homologation and terror. Today we also remember the massacres of Porzûs and the massacre of Malga Bala, we remember Senator Gigante, mayor of Rijeka, whose remains, found a few years ago by the associations of the exodus, will be inhumane at Vittoriale, next Saturday, performing a work of national peace. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group and Senator Iannone]] We remember many things, but we also want to remember the stones of the Dalmatian Julian quarter of Rome, which were put to remember, with the names of the families of the exodus, stories and tragedies of the protagonists of the exodus, who found refuge in Rome, Sardinia and other parts of the world. There have been many historians, but I want to remember one, Giampaolo Pansa, who spoke of the "gendarmes of memory": a courageous journalist, of different ideas compared to many of us, but who has done a work of research and historiography. That's what we want him to remember. Today, we all know, everyone knows, everyone knows and no one ever denies. It was, therefore, with pride and honour that, even yesterday, in Basovizza, we paid homage to those victims and we were there in a shared feeling, among the consent of many, because it was our duty to remember those victims, to remember a page of history, too long torn, that must be made known to many, even today, from this House. Thank you, Mr President, for your initiative. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC, L-SP-PSd'Az and FdI Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u27	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u28	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u29	Nocerino (M5S). Mr President, I, like my predecessors, am here to share with this House the importance of a day like that of remembrance, a precious instrument to preserve, share and pass on periods and episodes of our history, which cannot and must not be forgotten. The memory cannot, and must not, be erased. It must be elaborated, interrogated, told, brought to light and torn to oblivion, because even the most terrible tragedies are part of our history and contribute to forming our identity. We all know the darkness that has fallen on the victims of the foibe for decades and on their history. There were thousands of Italians from Istria, Kvarner and Dalmatia who, even after September 8, 1943 and, subsequently, at the end of World War II, suffered indescribable violence, finding, in many, an atrocious death in the foibe of the Karst. The Italian ruling class of those territories, but also those who had nothing to do with Nazi Fascism, was almost entirely eliminated by Yugoslav troops, who had the objective of regaining those regions in order to build a new country. There were millions of Italians forced into exile to escape the terrible "Italian hunting" that had spread, at first, as a reaction to the violence of the Nazi Fascist occupation and the war, but enlarged, later, to a sort of ethnic cleansing. Let us not forget also the suffering that the refugees had to suffer, forced to leave their lands of origin and that, once returned to Italy, were also the object of prejudice and hostility at first. What happened at the eastern Italian border takes on a dimension, if possible, even more tragic for what happened after. Not only having suffered the infamous Nazi-fascist dictatorship; not only the extermination of Titus' troops; not only the forced exile from his homeland: the last offense, the oblivion, the enemy to be fought. But an even greater enemy is indifference, as our President Mattarella pointed out, because it means adding pain to pain, tragedy to tragedy. For too long, these tragic events have been mistakenly dismissed as complications of the eastern border, even more exacerbated by the war. This is, first of all, a tragedy that struck the Italian people, and it is good to remember that the main cause was the exasperated nationalism of that historical period. So, history goes back to making us think that nationalism is dangerous wherever it comes from. Our thoughts and thanks go to all those who have fought over the years to bring back the memory and truth about the massacres of the foibe. Respecting the pains, sufferings and memories is the only way to learn and implement the lessons that the past and our history gives us. Wherever the light of history lights up its headlights, it brings with it truth and justice. But above all, it brings with it the value of remembrance, the only instrument able to give back a shred of peace to those who have lost their family. The only tool to give back to all of us, the dignity of shared memory. [[Applause from the M5S and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV).]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u30	The President of the 7th Permanent Commission, Senator Pittoni, has the floor to report on the Commission's work on draft law No 1664.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u31	Mr President, the Commission has not yet completed its examination of draft law No 1664. The examination in the referee was initiated on 15 January; all the stages preceding the votes of the amendments were exhausted in the Commission, including the acquisition of the prescribed opinions on the text and on the amendments tabled, with the exception of an amendment, on which the opinion of the Budget Commission is still suspended. At today's sitting, three amendments were tabled to overcome the opposition expressed by the Budget Commission under Article 81 of the Constitution, and for these rewordings the opinion of the 5th Commission is now awaited. In addition, the rapporteur, Senator Angrisani, announced the submission of proposals for amendments. The Commission therefore needs further time to complete the examination.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, in relation to Senator Pittoni's report, the debate on draft law No 1664 is postponed to another sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u33	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-11-LEG18-Senato-sed-189.ana.u34	The Senate will meet again in public tomorrow, Wednesday 12 February, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (The sitting was closed at 5.21 p.m.)
