ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.31 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Laforgia, Secretary, gave a reading of the Minutes of the sitting on 1 April. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u3	The Conference of Leaders, which met yesterday, approved the timetable until 16 April. In today's session the general discussion will take place, until its conclusion, of the decree-law on the strengthening of the National Health Service and the economic support related to the emergency coronavirus. Times have been divided among the Groups. As the Government announced its intention to put the question of confidence in the measure tomorrow, the Conference of Leaders organised the discussion. After the assessment of eligibility, pursuant to Rule 161, paragraph 3-b, of the Rules of Procedure, at 10 a.m. tomorrow the debate on trust will begin, for which an hour and twenty minutes has been allocated. The 5th standing Commission shall be authorized to convene during the discussion for examination within its competence. The explanations of vote will follow and, around 12.40 p.m., he calls you. For the call, each Senator will vote from his place, with entry into the House staggered in groups of fifty every ten minutes, according to the alphabetical order. The general discussion on confidence and explanations of vote will take place on television. The Assembly will meet again on Thursday 16 April. The agenda includes two information with direct television transmission, at 9.30 a.m. and 12.30 p.m. respectively, of the Ministers for Agricultural Policy and Labour on the initiatives of the respective Dicasteries in relation to the emergency coronavirus. Groups will be able to intervene for 10 minutes for each information. On the same day on Thursday 16 April, a hearing of the Minister for Foreign Affairs will take place at the Joint Foreign Affairs Committees of the House and Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u4	The Conference of Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups, meeting on 7 April 2020, with the presence of the Vice Presidents of the Senate and with the intervention of the representative of the Government, adopted - pursuant to Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure - the schedule of proceedings until 16 April: [[Wednesday 8 April h. 9.30 am - Drawing of law n. 1766 - Decree-Law n. 18, Enhancement National health service and economic support related emergency coronavirus (final vote no later than 17 April) (expires on 16 May) Thursday 9 " h. 9.30 am]] [[Thursday 16 April h. 9.30 a.m. - Information by the Minister of Agricultural Policy on initiatives under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agricultural Food and Forestry Policy to address the epidemiological emergency of the Covid-19 (9.30 a.m.) - Information by the Minister of Labour on initiatives under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policies to address the epidemiological emergency of the Covid-19 (12.30 a.m.)]] Time distribution for discussion of bill No. 1766 (Decree-Law No. 18, Enhancement National Health Service and economic support related emergency coronavirus) [[Groups 7 hours, of which: M5S 1h 30' FI-BP 1h 7' L-SP-PSd'Az 1h 7' PD 49' Mixed 40' FdI 38' IV-PSI 37' Aut (SVP-PATT, UV) 32' Dissentents 5']]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u5	The President of the 5th Permanent Commission, Senator Pesco, has the floor to report on the Commission's work on draft law No 1766.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u6	Mr President, we have finished voting on the amendments this night, but the groups are quite right to ask that we be able to discuss the agenda properly and comprehensively, because they contain important commitments that the government must make for the forthcoming outgoing decrees. We are therefore asked to be able to discuss these agendas until at least 13 o'clock and we are also asking the Groups to concentrate on those shared by everyone, leaving out the more specific ones, so that we can get ready for that time to deal with the follow-up of the work.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u7	If there are no comments, the sitting shall be suspended until 1 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 9.36 a.m. and resumed at 13.02 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u8	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1766. The rapporteur, Senator Pesco, has requested authorisation to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u9	Mr President, before we begin, I would like to thank everyone for having managed to get this decree to be examined in this House today in the time we had given us: it is a great achievement that the Senate, the Government, all the senators, but especially the workers who helped us to achieve this goal. I apologise to everyone for not being able to prepare a report worthy of the moment, but I am sure that I will be able to represent at least the fundamental issues present in this decree really important for the nation, at such a delicate and critical time as the current one. In this regard, a thought goes to the people who are helping us today in hospitals and social and health facilities, which I think must necessarily go the very strong embrace of everyone, because it is the most important thing. [[Applause]] We're really trying to do what we can for everyone. Mr President, the decree that we are amending and will shortly be approving in this House stems from the need to cope with a health crisis with economic consequences that have never been seen in Italy, but I think throughout the world, from the Second World War. We are paying a very high price in terms of broken lives, to date more than 17,000: mostly elderly and fragile people, who have not been able to have at a delicate moment like the end of life not even the comfort of their loved ones, to whom they leave an unbreakable void. It is a hard and sad lesson that must first of all make us reflect on what are the true values for which we live and for which we are called to play our role in Parliament. The country is facing with courage and dignity a health crisis whose consequences are rapidly being transmitted to the productive fabric, with relative loss of wealth and work. I believe that the government's first response was up to the image that Italy is transmitting to the whole world, thanks to all men and women engaged in health, civil and military services, food supply chains, the various essential economic sectors, as well as all the people working in supermarkets and grocery stores, to which our thanks really go.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u10	Excuse me if I interrupt you, Senator Pesco, but I would like to invite all colleagues to respect distances and use masks: I know that it is tiring and maybe some behavior comes instinctive, but I ask everyone to pay some attention.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u11	Please, Senator Pesco. PESCO, rapporteur. I renew my thanks also to all the workers of the Senate, but also to the Ministries, who have allowed us to reach this point. I'm definitely missing someone, and I apologize. The decree-law was issued and discussed in a complex and constantly evolving general framework, in the uncertainty about the duration of the emergency and the extent of its consequences on the economic, social and cultural fabric of the country. It should also be noted that in Decree-Law No 18 of 17 March 2020 other decrees issued previously, containing the first measures in support of the people of the initial red zones, were incorporated - in the form of regulatory coordination amendments proposed by the Government - and then exceeded by the fact that it was necessary to extend and extend these measures to the entire national territory in order to contain the negative effects on the conduct of judicial activity. The contents of Decree-Law No 14 of 9 March 2020, Articles 12 and 34 of Decree-Law No 9 of 2 March 2020 and Decree-Law No 11 of 8 March 2020 have therefore been included in this Decree-Law - and is one of the most important issues. Basically, it's like we have four decrees in one. Decree-Law No 18 of 2020 follows the request to update the return plan towards the medium-term objective, made by the Government in Parliament pursuant to Article 6 (5) of Law No 243 of 2012, and approved by Resolution 6-00103 to the Chamber and 6-00102 to the Senate (the famous deviation). The financial effects of the 2020 Budget Act for the three-year period 2020-2022 are expected to have a higher net balance to be financed by €24.8 billion, an increase in needs of 18.8 billion and an increase of almost €20 billion in net debt. The decree-law under consideration can, in my opinion, be enclosed in five fundamental pillars: the first relates to the financing and enhancement of the capacity of the health system, civil protection and other public actors involved in the emergency; the second relates to the support of workers and companies for the protection of income and labour; the third pillar refers to support for the liquidity of households, but above all of companies, through the banking system and the use of the Central Guarantee Fund. With the fourth pillar there is the suspension of the obligations to pay taxes and contributions and other tax obligations and the introduction of tax incentives. Finally, there are a number of key articles that allow all public and private administrations not to have problems at this delicate stage, since many activities are suspended.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u12	President Pesco, forgive me for interrupting you again. As I am told that a number of colleagues are taking pictures in this House, both from the benches we normally take and from the forums, I would ask them not to do so because - as you know - this cannot be done. Please, President Pesco, continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u13	I think it is worth mentioning the most important measures in support of workers. An allowance has been provided for professionals and workers with a coordinated and continuous cooperation relationship; an allowance for self-employed persons enrolled in the special management of the Aug; an allowance for seasonal workers in tourism and thermal establishments; a specific allowance for agricultural workers and an allowance for entertainment workers. It is a net allowance of EUR 600 for all, but we already know that very soon it will be increased to EUR 800. It has to be said that the requests for the April bonus have already been 3.5 million, for an expense of 2.1 billion euros, which I think is very important. We then have the establishment of a last resort income fund for workers affected by the Covid-19 virus: this is a 300 million fund for the provision of an income of last resort that will see the allocation of 600 euros - as I said before - for each future beneficiary. The Decree-Law is a first starting point for aid to enterprises, within a framework of European rules on State aid, which was evolving in a European scenario in which it is not yet clear which Community resources will be able to facilitate interventions to support the economy; a good starting point certainly, realized entirely with internal resources. We know that we will have to do more, to give more net liquidity to companies and quickly, to seek solutions that, over time, through the long-term credit guarantee or in the flexible and business-related methods of repayment, can not only keep alive - I stress - our network of companies, but also make it grow and become even more competitive in international markets. That is what we hope for because we really must do so, ladies and gentlemen, otherwise we risk losing too much of our economy, and we cannot afford that. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]] The decree-law includes a moratorium on the financing or leasing instalments until 30 September without any bank commission; the installments in moratorium will be translated at the end of the financial financing period and there is a complete use of the previous credit openings without the possibility of withdrawal by the bank. Colleagues, in this measure we have not been able to include those funds that many families have taken over the mortgage for the first home - for it there is the Gasparrini fund, to which many can access having had a reduction of the job - to buy the car or appliances. The payment of the instalments of such funding must be suspended for those families who are suffering a reduction in their income. I really hope that something can be done in the House of Deputies or in the next decrees to remind us of the problems that families are experiencing. The system of aid to enterprises has been increased by additional guarantees: the fund guaranteed to 33% of existing bank exposures, in order to ensure the stability over time of past corporate debts. The SME Guarantee Fund has been increased to EUR 1.5 million for all SMEs, up to EUR 2.5 million for innovative startups and SMEs and up to EUR 5 million for SMEs in the special sections. A solidarity fund was then implemented for the first home mortgages and access to the first home fund was extended to all employees who suffered a decrease in hours worked and self-employed workers who suffered a loss of turnover of 33% due to the Coronavirus emergency. Access to the fund makes it possible to suspend the capital installments up to 18 months, while the interest-rate portion is paid 50% through the public contribution of the solidarity fund. Here too, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Government: have we not been able to do this at the moment because there were no adequate resources, but it would not be useful to extend the first home mortgage fund to all those who have had a reduction in income or have no income or are unemployed? Unfortunately, at present this first home fund still has some very important limitations that should be eliminated in my opinion. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I would also like to remind you that precisely in these hours the Pontiff reminded us that the current one is the most critical moment, in the context of which the underworld can rule out against people in difficulty. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Many people are in a liquidity crisis and we must therefore help them to ensure that they have the necessary liquidity to meet the needs of everyday life. Regulation in emergency is not easy, but I believe that the Government and the entire Parliament are showing their harmony with the country, adapting quickly to the evolution of the health crisis in taking measures to support people who suddenly find themselves in need of economic support and in favour of companies that are superior also to other European countries. The framework is constantly evolving, and we must not seek immediate comprehensive legislative measures, but accompany the evolutionary path in the crisis day after day, so that resources are not dispersed, but used in the best way. President. - Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and let us continue with this. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Pittella.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u14	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u15	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u16	Mr Calderoli (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would ask you to speak on the new location that we have achieved in the Senate House. First of all, I proposed that the House should also be extended on the boxes, which allowed the space available to be enlarged, convinced that the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure provide for the senators to be present. I would like to thank the quaestor senators for having also implemented the technical device that allows us to vote from the second and third order tribune and this has ensured that minimum safety distances are guaranteed that allow us to work in peace. [[Applause from the groups L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and Senator Bernini]] It is clear that these distances concern the static aspect and, in the course of the dynamic work, cannot always be maintained. I would therefore like to ask colleagues to adopt the presies that allow us to work safely. I'm saying this because I see senators and senators without the mask. I don't want to get into the various dynamics of the masks, but all three types - surgical, FFP2 and FFP3 - protect in the sense that they do not expose to contagion in case someone carries the virus inside. If we all put on the mask, we can stop this from being determined. [[Applause from the groups L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S and Senator Bernini]] Who is without a mask is not a hero, but represents a danger to all the others who carry it instead. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Bernini]] If a tie is required to enter the Senate for the senators, then we decide that for this period - and only for this period - the mask is mandatory. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Otherwise one is free to stay at home. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az, M5S, FIBP-UDC and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u17	I thank Vice-President Calderoli, who has interpreted the thinking of those who are presiding and of the whole Assembly. It is equally clear that the senators of the Republic do not need a reference to an obligation; the sense of responsibility that we must certainly have in the forefront of respect for other citizens should suffice. I know it's hard to talk and work with the mask, but it's a small thing compared to the sacrifices that are being asked of everyone. If we are able to observe these minimum cautions, I too must avoid making calls that are not pleasant and do not honour this House.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government, we have finally begun the general discussion of the decree-law cure Italy, which is the first economic decree and contains health measures. Undoubtedly governing is always difficult and at a time like this is definitely more difficult and, therefore, it is easy - someone might say - to criticize from the opposition. But it is also true that on the other hand it is right not to deny the right of criticism, all the more so when this criticism becomes and is constructive, also because - let's face it - there is no government of national unity. So perhaps it is better to put the subject - as has often been said by Mr Bagnai - that national unity cannot be achieved without a government of national unity. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Therefore, it is right that everyone does their part, the majority decides, the opposition will do and will carry forward what are the various and possible criticisms. On the subject of the method, which I would like to stress, there has been talk of direction and collaboration. It is imagined that in a directing booth the measures are taken and written together; instead in the numerous tables that have been there, of course through the video conferencing, we have actually seen that on the part of the government there was only the will to inform minorities about the measures that wanted to be taken. In fact, the government decided on its own and asked Parliament for cooperation to try to shorten what is the course of parliamentary activity, to try to facilitate the mechanism. This - in our view - is absolutely not correct, this is not the field of sharing, but it is quite different. We have understood the directing booth in all other ways and so far we have not been absolutely satisfied from this point of view. Working together means sharing, not informing; you do as much information as you want in Parliament, but one directing booth definitely requires more. Moreover, we have already seen the attitude of asking for cooperation, but in fact we have already seen something different in some ways that the President of the Council has taken on the lack of involvement of Parliament itself. I recall the famous decrees of the President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, which also provided for restrictions on the personal freedom of so many people, issued without passing through Parliament. We have seen in several cases, indeed in these days we see a negotiation, a negotiation that the Government is carrying out in Europe on the subject of the European Stability Mechanism and the international treaties that, however, does not pass through Parliament. For all these reasons I say that there was no involvement. I'd like to make a joke: you've brought up the history of full powers, that sentence Salvini made last summer, but to the test of the facts the full powers if the President of the Count Council is taking them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] However, it is not only a question of method, but also of merit, and on this we have said, from a constructive point of view, that for us in the League, but also for many colleagues in the centre-right that I have consulted, the Government has failed to have a vision. I first heard President Pesco, now next to me, say that we must accompany the emergency crisis and then slowly find the right measures. The word "accompaniment" is wrong: a government must lead the crisis and not accompany. The real sense of the situation is to have a future vision, to anticipate what might happen, to have already in mind before the road that you want to definitely go. In these moments of emergency we must avoid partial solutions and the decree-law that today discuss and tomorrow will be voted with confidence is basically a very partial solution. I remember that at first there was talk of 3 billion, then it was said that 7.5 were enough, then we went up to 25, now we are thinking of another decree-law of as many as 25-30 billion (we do not yet know the entity. Maybe it was necessary - as some countries did and we suggested - to put 100 billion in the field immediately. Some might say that it is easy to speak from the opposition, because money must be found, there is the issue of debt, and there is the European Union. But we have also given you this suggestion. We have told you something that, among other things, they have also supported characters who, from our point of view, have great competence, like the former minister of the economy Tremonti: it was enough to issue long-term treasury bills reserved for Italian investors, giving them tax breaks, perhaps promising that for some time no tax investigations would be made and probably we would have freed our resources, Italian, in this direction, to put in the field immediately to support our companies. Do you really think that Europe will help us? Today, in the debate on the ESM with minimum conditionality, we felt that there was talk from Holland of non conditionality on medical expenses, but instead of providing general conditionality for the rest. Do you really think that the European Stability Mechanism is a positive solution for our country? Even in the same majority you don't have the same kind of idea. Do you really think that the Eurobonds or the Coronabonds - as you want to call them - will be established, when we know very well that, in order to do so, Germany must change its Constitution, because it says that in a year we cannot mutualize the debt? Any decision taken by Europe for us, then, is in danger of becoming a fraud. So, let's start doing it ourselves, let's free up the resources that many Italians already have and make them available to the whole country to overcome this absolutely important and fundamental phase. From this point of view too, however, you have not listened to us. We didn't just come to criticize - you had to get the money out, you didn't have it; you had to do it like Germany or France - but we also proposed solutions, but the answer was negative. [[Senator Airola's comments.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u19	Senator Airola, please speak to the presidency and speak when you have the floor. Please, President Romeo. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] He talks to the Presidency. [[Comments from the M5S Group.]] Senator Airola, don't make me call you and everyone individually. [[Senator Airola's comments.]] Senator Airola, don't force me to call you back verbally. Please, Senator Romeo. The same Mario Draghi, who has been celebrated several times in this Chamber... [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]] PRESIDENT. - The debate is Colleagues, we do not respond to Senator Airola, who has already been verbally referred to by the Presidency. Don't force me to call others verbally. Please, Senator Romeo.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u20	I was saying that Mario Draghi himself said that we still have to owe. Therefore, certain solutions that have been proposed are also supported by illustrious characters who have been recognized by all parties as those who, in certain phases of our history, have saved our country. The feeling - perhaps the government and the majority will deny it - is that we are faced with a somewhat weak government from this point of view, especially in relations with the European Union, and that it gives sovereignty to technicians. In fact, on the health aspect you do basically everything the Scientific and Technical Committee tells you to do. This has been recalled several times. On economic issues, in fact, do as the Eurocrats, Brussels bureaucrats tell you, to be clear. I mean, you can't take a step without the European Union not having an okay. Perhaps, in such a dramatic and difficult situation, where there is nothing more to lose, it would have served - forgive me - a little more courage, a little 'will to force the hand and put in place the real strength of our country, all things that - in our opinion - have been missing. In fact, in the March decree, apart from most of the safeguards pointed out against employees with the Integration Fund, crumbs are provided for the self-employed. There is very little in the provision for the self-employed. Above all, you have not even managed to make a commitment to the April decree. Whoever doesn't invoice, at the end of the month - gentlemen - doesn't have the money. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Thousands of artisans and traders are suffering and wondering what they will be given, what help they will have from this point of view. There is nothing in this decree that goes in this direction. Moreover, it is necessary to be careful because soon we will begin to fuel the feeling that there are Italians of series a and Italians of series b. Those who are dependent on the state and are under its umbrella undoubtedly enjoy a privileged position. The problem is that all those who are outside the state umbrella who have been producing, paying taxes for years and have been busy and today seem to be not really recognized by them at all. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] This is an issue that we must put forward because, otherwise, we really run the risk of social revolt. What to do? Here too, we have suggestions. We asked you on the Integration Fund to simplify, not involve the trade unions. Moreover, if the company and the state say they are closing down, they do not close because there are particular crisis problems. Instead, you said that the unions can't be touched. The second suggestion is that compensation should be increased and extended to all categories. The 600 euros, honestly, seemed a little 'few, when then to those who take the income of citizenship we give 750. This too, frankly, is certainly a necessary element to highlight. But, also in this regard, on the decree, you said absolutely no: it's not okay, we can't, we'll see again, we'll think less. On the suspension of payments, we said from the outset that they had to be suspended for a longer time. You didn't listen to us. Now the decree will come, which has not yet been published and we are waiting, with the suspension until the end of May, but we will have to pay everything by the end of June. Among other things, it is not clear why the State says to close and then it must be the company that shows that it has had the reduction in turnover. We know very well what companies may have obtained, perhaps, some advantages at a time like this, for some particular situation, and which, on the other hand, have encountered considerable difficulties. Then there is the issue of corporate liquidity. Now this decree will come out. You have also made, here again, robotic statements: 750 billion. Like you're giving everybody money! Gentlemen, I say to you that this is not money given away: these are new debts that many companies will have to bear, new debts. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] By the way, the mechanism seems to only work up to EUR 25,000, because there is 100% State guarantee. From there up, up to 800,000, the real risk is that you start with bank assessments, credit ratings, credit ratings and all that bureaucracy - then maybe we hope we're wrong - and businesses will see the money in three or four months, when it's too late. We needed a much stronger guarantee, from this point of view, but even here, unfortunately, you have not gone beyond what are the European rules, the usual European rules to which we must always give total respect. It was perhaps better to go into infringement - let us say it clearly - to help our businesses in this time of difficulty, to give them a serious hand and, above all, also the ability to power, in some way, to go in a certain direction. There are so many things that we can highlight, but cross-compliance is really too much and there is a risk of not really helping people who need and need money right away. That's the real thing we're putting on the field. As we begin to close, there is certainly the issue of minimum income for people who need it; but let us not forget our pensioners, who are in a very difficult situation at the moment. So, a hint of them wouldn't be too bad. There is the issue of investment, if we want to think about a recovery plan. Without investments, our country will hardly be able, once there is the phase of reopening, to go in the right direction. This applies to the great works, model bridge of Genoa and not model "we suspend the TAV" that - excuse me - is not the solution for the future of the country, undoubtedly. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] On the other hand, there is also support for our municipalities that, with the projects ready, should be free to spend to carry them forward, derogating from the procurement code, as the European Commission itself asks us to do. It is the Commission itself that, with a document, told us to derogate from it, but even here, we do not move a millimeter, because ideology prevails over the concept of emergency. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] So, gentlemen, you're not going anywhere.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u21	Senator Romeo, I invite you to conclude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u22	ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Of course, Mr President, I shall conclude, although I have lost a couple of minutes because of the insults I have received. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. The Presidency has taken this into account and has already recovered it. ROMEO (L-SP-PSd'Az). Thank you, Mr President. From the liquidity to the municipalities, to the suspension of the ISA to the ZES, the special economic zones, for the red zones, like the zones of Lodi and other areas that have had to undergo the closures; from the vouchers on agriculture and tourism to the detaxation of the health personnel and the topic of the waste, that the other European countries no longer burn us: all these proposals have obtained a negative response, without even a minimum commitment for the future decrees, that must be or must be issued. The road, gentlemen, is this one. You will also have the consent, which at this moment have all the leaders of all the countries of the world - at the time of the emergency, undoubtedly, everyone clings to who at that moment is rightly ruling - but it is a paper consensus. In fact, when people start to feel sick, sooner or later, the accounts will have to be made. Then try to correct the path on the basis of the proposals that the League and the entire center-right have made and are doing for more than a month to this side. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator De Bertoldi.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u23	Colleagues, I would like to explain to you the correct way of using microphones, as established by the quaestors senators. With the exception of the Fratelli d'Italia Group and the Gruppo Misto, which intervene from their corner in the first row, as regards the right side of the hemicycle, the Forza Italia and Lega Groups can intervene from their first row of benches and can use, in addition, the microphone on the speakers' desk that has already been used by President Romeo. As for the left side of the hemicycle, the Movimento 5 Star Group intervenes from the first row of its benches, to the side adjacent to the door to the main entrance. The same applies to the Italian Viva Group and the Democratic Party, who intervene from the front row, as Senator De Poli is pointing out, as well as to the For the Autonomous Group. I hope it's all clear. In any case, Senator Quest will help us in case of uncertainty. He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators, representatives of the Government, finally arrives in this House today the path of a decree-law which began in a long, troubled and even complicated session of the Budget Commission, which went on throughout the night; finally, therefore, today the examination of a measure with a very important symbolic name, the so-called Italian decree cures. At this particular moment all Italians really expect a cure for this emergency, which began as a health emergency but which today has become in full also an economic emergency. Therefore, words and acts must be absolutely concrete and important and not just slogans. I'm going to the government. I admit and understand, today, at a particular time when the health emergency becomes an economic emergency, which certainly is not easy to administer public things, it is not easy to govern. However, as always in the scientific field, when there is a cure to be found they all sit around a table, compare, seek a solution, talk about different treatments and, in the end, find a synthesis. We have hoped for this and have worked until the last second, accepting, from the first moment, the "call to arms." We were called today to face this health and economic emergency precisely in the unique and exclusive interest of the health of Italians and the economy of our country. We therefore immediately accepted the proposal to participate in a table and to cooperate. Unfortunately it did not go as we asked and as we wanted. We brought our improvement proposals, free from party and ideological conditioning, we participated in tables, meetings, videoconferences and meetings at Palazzo Chigi where we brought our proposals. On the other hand, there has been absolutely no confidence in us and our proposals. We have worked together in all the fora, so much so that today, in this House, in this House and in this Parliament, we have also come with a mandate to the rapporteur on the measure. We have therefore made absolutely no obstruction to the measure itself, but you have not been able to grasp the confidence that we gave you in the general interest of the country. Instead, on the other hand, what's going on? It happens that at a delicate moment like this, at a time when the whole constitutional arc was inclined to vote on the measure and save the country and Italy, you pose the question of trust [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It is not a question of trust placed in this House from a technical point of view towards an opposition that is obstructing in order to speed up the times: instead you are afraid of the "friend fire" that is inside yourself, of the friendly fire that is with you, within you. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] That is why today you are putting the question of trust at such a serious time when, as I said, the whole constitutional arc was ready to vote on this measure: you are doing it out of fear. So there is no unitary strategy and it is seen from the measures, which are baked by the Government: the next decree repeals some parts of the previous decree and the decree that will be removed some parts of the current one. Today this has also happened in the Commission, because the new decree-law, the one still not published, will also cash out so many articles of the decree-law in question. You are therefore also late in the solution: that is why a lack of strategy is evident. It is therefore absolutely out of control, because, ladies and gentlemen, you are not a political majority, you are just an algebraic majority, a sum of votes put together to make a majority. But there is absolutely nothing political about it and we are seeing it in these measures. As I said, together with the Government we were very willing to offer a solution and above all a cure to the country, but unfortunately it was rejected. I could give many examples: we have listened to families, entrepreneurs and categories. For example, yesterday in the Commission we highlighted a proposal that is being put forward at the moment by many sectors, particularly the agricultural sector, on the flexibility of work, in order to have a flexibility bracket. We proposed to introduce vouchers for this emergency period, to give you the opportunity to go and collect in the countryside. Otherwise, as consumers' associations are denouncing, food prices will increase. At this moment it has become difficult for Italians even to shop! We must pay attention to these things and instead you have also rejected this proposal on vouchers. The government is therefore short-sighted in relation to this situation and proceeds in attempts and in strife. That is why we in this framework, just as I drew it - but it is a real picture - from a political point of view, do not find ourselves, because you have absolutely not considered our proposals and today you have not given us a minimum of political confidence to sit at that table. Therefore, the cure you are proposing today is absolutely ineffective and inefficient. With this measure we move 25 billion euros, but Italian citizens and businesses have not yet received a euro [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] and this is a decree-law that dates back to March 17, almost a month ago! Italians haven't had a euro in their pocket yet! Let us realize that then there is also bureaucracy, which gives problems. Here too we have proposed many solutions that concern automation to get this money directly into the pockets of Italians today. But you didn't listen to us about that either. In conclusion, it is therefore an absolutely difficult situation, because we are still at the starting blocks. There is a decree-law of 17 March that mobilises 25 billion euros, but they do not reach the Italians and we are still here today, in this House, to discuss its conversion and, therefore, we are still standing still. That's why I say we pay attention to what we do. Colleagues of the majority, you have proposed a cure but we are still standing still and so we stand still even to that old saying of the past: While the doctor studies, the patient dies. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u25	He's enlisted to speak Senator Crucioli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u26	Mr President, the current pandemic puts the European and national institutions before a severe test bench. In my speech, I would like to point out a number of risks which I can see both at Community and internal level. The decree-law that we are about to convert is the first reaction of the State to the exceptional health, economic and social situation that our country, like the whole world, is forced to face in these terrible weeks. Although it contains necessary and important measures, it is clear to everyone that on the economic front a much broader plan will be needed to protect families, workers and businesses. In this sense, it is necessary to clarify immediately, beyond any ambiguity, the role that Europe will want to play. If the European Union wants to act as a common home for all its citizens, regardless of their nationality, and issues common securities to finance the enormous need for liquidity that all states, albeit to a different extent, are encountering to cope with the blocking of most productive activities, then we will be happy to continue with the idea of a united Europe. If, on the other hand, the less affected or otherwise economically stronger states want to hide their egoisms behind the screen of the current European rules, wrong in normal and fierce times in pandemic time; if these states put on top of the scale of European values an accountantistic and hypocritical rigor trying to take advantage of the crisis as the choker takes advantage of the state of necessity of those who ask for a loan; if therefore the European institutions were to demand that the aid to the affected States be assisted by the conditions laid down by the ESM, then the veil would fall, revealing that the real end of the Union is not the good of the European peoples [[Applause from the M5S Group]] but the guarantee of the claims of the dominant classes of the richest countries. The question must be clarified immediately because it is the result of the choices that each Member of this House will be called upon to make in the next few days. At the moment I am confident that the President-in-Office of the Council will be able to defend in Europe the interests of the Italian people, especially the weakest, and the idea of a community that inspired the creation of the European Union. I would ask him to report to us constantly and with the utmost transparency on the European proposals for the management of this crisis. At the level of the internal system, while aware of the need for rapid decision-making instruments compatible with the social gap which, in the state, does not allow Parliament's meetings to be celebrated in ordinary ways, I would point to the risk of an unhealthy reduction in the tasks attributed to Parliament by our Constitutional Charter. I refer, in particular, to the path taken by the Government which intends to discipline and by decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers (DPCM), rather than by decrees-laws, the limitations deemed necessary to defeat the pandemic. As you know, the DPCMs are administrative acts that are not subject to the prior scrutiny of the President of the Republic or the President of Parliament. I therefore believe that they are not the appropriate instrument to affect constitutionally guaranteed rights in general and abstract ways. I hope, therefore, that the unprecedented demands, including regulations, required by the tragic moment that we are going through will be met by resolving the speed of decisions with respect for the principle of representation and democracy, enhancing and not reducing the role of Parliament. For these reasons, tomorrow I will not lose my confidence in the Government, but I will encourage it to continue courageously in protecting the interests of the Italian people - and in particular those most in need - in Europe and to condemn it on the internal front not to reduce due attention to the role of Parliament. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u27	Senator Modena is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u28	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, good afternoon, everyone. After listening to the speeches, a spontaneous consideration arose in me: if our President of the Republic of Mattarella had not called for a collective responsibility, I dare not think what this majority could have done with regard to the proposals that we have taken forward and that, at a quick reading, I saw decidedly sifted by the so-called common work. I therefore believe that one point can be removed from the table: there is not a minority here who behaves, in practice, like a capricious child and screams in search of criticism, but an opposition that has done its job, while on the other side it was evidently just trying to have a little 'cheta water' in order to manage the internal problems. I would like to address four issues very quickly. The first concerns some inconsistencies that I would like to stigmatize: we have a decree-law of "care" which gives the Agency revenue two years more time to pursue citizens but we did not even want to suspend activity related to sector studies. When it is said that there is too much bureaucracy, I believe that people could have been given a signal in this regard. There is also another issue concerning referrals or waste which we have had to take note of on many subjects, from agriculture to tourism and certainly crafts. Thirdly, there are many "optical illusions": for example, I have seen various interventions and amendments of the Government in the matter of justice that start from the assumption that the chancellors can work from home with the famous smart working mode. The chancellors at home do not have access to the systems and files, so for this sector we must also think about falling into reality. Thus we come to a reasoning that closes the concept of optical illusions that we could see with this decree-law care: some norms are enacted and then there is a flourishing of restrictive circular interpretations that greatly complicate the life of citizens. We saw it with the Revenue Agency and the circulars coming out of the Ministry of Justice. Optical illusions are not possible: you can't go on television and say live that you do certain things and then leave the consultants of the job, the citizens and the professionals in the middle of the pastries of the circulars. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]] I should like to conclude with the fourth point that is particularly close to my heart: there are circulars on which this Parliament must give particular thought to those of the Ministry of Health. We have no regulations requiring medical personnel, family doctors, health workers, nurses, RSA employees and health workers to take tests: there are no rules in this area. This does not mean that the Parliament and the Government have given the issue to the technicians (as someone has sometimes mentioned from Italy Viva); it is much worse: it means that they did not want to deal - because there was and there is an escape from responsibility - burdens that everyone asks for. When the president of the medical order Anelli says that Parliament must make its voice heard, because until the day before yesterday we did not even have the masks we cannot only then discover that the matter is managed through the circulars of the Ministry of Health. On this complaint, in fact, the choices that are of a political nature and of a political nature. Then you will tell me that rules would be imposed at this point that would not be implemented, because the masks and reagents are not there, there are problems for those who manage the structures and so on. At that point, however, I build the norm knowing, but I cannot exclude the political debate on this aspect, which is a fundamental issue that the whole country is talking about and which is one of the points on which the management by politics is very important. I understand and understand - I think we can also explain - the interwoven problem of the responsibilities that "fall" from the Presidents of the Region to ASL and so on; but can I read a circular from the Ministry of Health to understand the priorities with which the tests should be done? Isn't that something that has to be put at parliamentary level anyway, given that all political forces are saying and have said that tests are to be taken down? What's going on? It happens that the amendments that go in this direction are "surpassed" and do not go well.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u29	I invite you to conclude, Senator Modena.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u30	MODENA (FIBP-UDC). I believe that among the four issues that I have briefly expressed, in the course of time, this is the one on which Parliament must reflect and which it must resolve, because it is not just a matter of giving in to technicians, it is an unacceptable political escape. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u31	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u32	Mr President, we are here today calling for the conversion of an extraordinarily important decree-law for the country. All those who are at the forefront of this dramatic emergency, but in general all citizens, their organised forms, families, local authorities and businesses, have clear what is at stake and why we are here today. We all know that the first emergency that we are called to face is the one that concerns the health and life of people; we know that this measure must first - already done with the decree-law and, even more so, it will have to be done with the integrations that will take place during the conversion process - concern the tools to deal with the emergency on this level, but we also know that the country is suffering. Unfortunately, crises usually show inequalities and hit harder those who are already in difficulty and our economic system has already suffered very serious damage in recent weeks. In this context of difficulty, the agri-food supply chain sector has been greatly affected, and this is because there has been a contraction in the markets, because traditional marketing schemes (especially because most agricultural products are more perishable than others), because exports have practically been nailed and because all the system that produced quality products intended for what is technically called Horeca (hotellerie-restaurant-café), i.e. the whole system of restaurants and services, is basically stationary. All these aspects put together have weighed very heavily on most of the crops in our territories. We are faced with a dramatic situation with regard to the labour force, with regard to the agronomic issues of this moment, but above all with regard to the prospect of spring and, therefore, to the beginning of the harvest campaigns. In recent days some trade associations have expressed concern over the lack of up to 200,000 workers in our campaigns to be able to collect products and make them available to citizens. From this point of view we knew that there was a whole topic related, for example, to the not so many foreigners still present in Italy, so the Government had already intervened extending until 15 June - and in this measure we extended them until the end of the year - the residence permits, and we know that the stakes of such situations are very heavy. We knew and know that there was then a liquidity issue for companies that, not cashing in, are not able to cope with ordinary expenses but neither with mortgages and investments. I believe that the government's intervention over the past few days is crucial. From this point of view I would like to take this opportunity to also express to the Government the appreciation for having clarified that the agricultural sector is fully involved in the measures of this measure. We also knew that there are sectors particularly affected by this crisis: we think about the fisheries and aquaculture sector. Much of our small fishing lives from the immediate sale of its fish and supply to restaurants. This whole issue is essentially closed. Also the flowering sector, which normally, in the first months of the year, produces more than 70 percent of its turnover, is practically "nailed": a crazy avalanche of product has been thrown away. Moreover, there is also the whole game of the dairy sector and the poultry sector, of the eggs, which have a specific duration, so very much product cannot reach the traditional outlets of that market. Again, the wine sector with its small productions and, above all, its export: all still. It is not a drama because they will probably recover, but at this time zero liquidity, so there is a need to intervene immediately. Let's think about the front of the farm, which was played 60 percent of the receipts in the Easter period: everything stopped, everything to throw away. Also, for example, the whole sector of the fourth fruit and vegetable range, is struggling enormously to find outlets, especially the small producers who sold on the local markets, which in most of the territory, for public health needs, have been closed. We had clear this whole picture: we knew that there was a need to intervene in these areas and we also knew that we did not have additional resources available in this measure because it was clear that, despite Parliament's authorisation to exceed the debt parameters provided for in the budget, these were basically exhausted; we have therefore worked on this measure by intervening on a whole series of measures which, even if they are not economic resources, are essential to give companies immediate relief. We have taken action to anticipate European and national resources in order to be able to allocate them; we have taken action on the poultry sector; we have postponed many deadlines and authorized managements by way of derogation with regard, as I said before, to residence permits, training courses and the certification of licences for plant protection products, certification of fishing boats, derogations on milk processing waste (which are now usable in biogas plants), certification of organic products and indications of origin. We have done this work and have accompanied it with an important majority agenda indicating what will be the fundamental priorities of the next economic decree-law, on which I believe we will have to be very careful because many agricultural sectors are playing the opportunity to look at a future linked to that measure. Mr President, starting with the conclusion, we must all be clear that it is essential to be able to give answers that can put the agricultural sector at risk, but we will also have to be aware, Mr President: we will not get out of this crisis the same as we were before we entered it; either we will be better or we will be worse. I would like to hope that on issues such as the environment, health, inequalities, the issue of simplifications and infrastructure for the country we will be able to make that leap forward that the country expects from us. The April Decree-Law will be that occasion; in this I believe we have done a good job and, if this has been possible, it is because in my opinion there has been a great collaboration, a team game between all the senators and all the parliamentary groups. I think that this can be a good omen for the work that we will be called upon to do with the examination of the next measure. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u33	He's enlisted to speak Senator Paragon. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u34	Mr President, the decree-law that we are going to discuss was born at a time when at home and from home we unfortunately and damnedly became familiar with dramatic images coming from intensive therapies. We all remember those intensive therapies, where the patients were put in a strange position; perhaps you will all remember: those patients were put in a prone position, belly down. Shortly after Professor Luciano Gattinoni, who first recommended this position, told the reaction that others had had compared to his advice. He said: if you simply overthrow the patient, you give the machine, the respiratory ones, a chance to work better. And everyone says, "Ah, the professor has arrived! It makes it easy, just spill it! And yes, it was enough to turn it over to make those machines more effective. The professor recommended that position because the lung capacity has a better chance of getting the respiratory system to work better. But everyone says "Ah," but it's easy! That's enough! I repeat, after the prone position has become the one adopted by all; a simple position, almost banal by intuition, with which, however, one was able to save patients and also free places in intensive therapies. What do I mean? Sometimes defending an apparently simple choice, perhaps for someone even trivial, has a revolutionary scope. And forgive me if I take back one of Giorgio Gaber's monologues called the equation. At one point Gaber says: "Yes, an innocent error imperceptible, which then over time has been repeated multiplied, magnified, to the point of becoming very serious, irreparable. Yeah, but why does the mistake get bigger? It must be a bit like when we were doing algebraic equations at school. I mean, you make a mistake, an oversight, more or less, who knows... It's just that you carry it with you, and in the line below you're already starting to see strange numbers. And you say, whatever then it simplifies. And then numbers getting uglier, bigger, uglier even. Even huge, untenable, disgusting... - I remember Gaber with his pathos -...E at the end: X = 472,827,324 / √87,225,035 + C. And now try to simplify a little. There's nothing to do. Mathematics must have its own aesthetics: X = 2. Nice, simplicity. The advice I want to give to the Government, which has so far escaped these invitations, is to seek simplicity and to seek it with those who are suggesting the revolution of simplicity. Look, it's useless that we go there to impalate with loans and money that are not generated in itself but must be returned, because that's not the simple way: that's the winding way. When grandparents told us "without money" they didn't sing "put," the money wasn't borrowed money. The money you were singing the mass with was your money. So let's be careful about the great risk we face, because the risk is to keep repeating Gaber's equation, thinking that it simplifies so much. The errors that we carry with us, however, with these decrees will be submerged in other errors, because they are matrix errors; it is wrong the matrix with which we are trying to solve an emergency that is extraordinary. If the emergency is extraordinary, then the reaction must also be such. If Europe does not understand the effect of words and extraordinary scope, forgive me but I do not need Europe, we do not need it. It is a Europe that risks remaining, itself, prisoner and source of other mistakes in the equation. But now I have to go straight ahead, what entrepreneurs, those interested in production, families or workers ask of us is simplicity. I can't go to the bank with the fear that an algorithm has already made me jump, because this is a country where you jump for algorithms, where in the bank you end up in the list of bad payers because a terminal put you - for a lack of payment - on that list. And you don't get out. I also tell you that no employee in any bank will help you because you can't risk the job. Then there will always be a conflict between those who feel more guaranteed than others. How are we going to deal with such a response when the government's matrix is already wrong and then add all the stress and tension that accumulates in society? We asked society for a very difficult exercise, almost impossible if you think about it. We have asked to limit and compress one of our most important constitutional rights: freedom of movement. But if you do - and it is right that you do so to avoid the risk of spreading the virus - you must know that you rely on a ruling class that is telling you that your sacrifice will be matched by an exercise of equal intensity that will give you the opportunity to restart. Sooner or later the reset key will have to be pressed and then it will coincide with the exercise of simplicity. In conclusion, let's take back those images, let's keep them in our memory, not only for the drama that they gave us but also because someone saved lives simply by overturning the patient, putting him in a natural position. Italy is not a perfect country: it is a bit a hornet, as someone said, but we cannot prevent the hornet in his imperfection - which challenges the laws of aerodynamics - from being able to fly because that hornet has the right to remain in nature with all its imperfections. I therefore call on the Government to have the revolutionary sense of simplicity and to build it by sharing it with us. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u35	Mr President, the Government, ladies and gentlemen, in these hours we are really deciding and taking important steps with measures that have no precedent. Emergency measures, emerging, but very important and fundamental; from the Coronavirus decree to the liquidity decree, to other measures that will arrive immediately after Easter, to the decree on the school. What we have to do, as my fellow Members have said and which I too want to reiterate, is certainly to clear up the bureaucracy, to make everything simple and immediate because people are in difficulties, our citizens all need to be supported and we can do so by giving them immediate answers. It is therefore necessary to think today of tomorrow, of a tomorrow that we hope is near and that it is immediately better than the tragedy we are going through. It is therefore necessary to cooperate with all political forces of majority and minority. This emergency, unfortunately, has made us understand that we are all small, but we must be united in the face of the global challenges ahead of us. There will be an after and there will be the right time, as we in Italy Viva have also asked, to set up a Committee of Inquiry to understand what did not work and to ascertain the responsibilities. But not today. Today we are trying to put in place all the tools necessary to stem an immense drama, which unfortunately sees thousands of deaths in Italy and in the world. In the evening we can see the image of the Tricolor that illuminates the façade of Palazzo Chigi, of the Senate, of many palaces but also of many houses that have decided to expose it; well, that tricolor must not only be the symbol of national unity, of our values of solidarity and respect, but must virtually embrace and support those who are in difficulty and those people we have not physically been able to embrace, to whom we could not stay close and who we have lost. We have lost too many of our loved ones, friends, especially too many elderly people who we have not been able to hold, hug, to whom we have not been able to give a funeral, to say goodbye. Let us think of the people admitted at this moment, of their families: as institutions we have a duty to be next to them at all times. In fact, we are losing a generation, the dearest affections, the historical memory of this country and we have a duty to remember them with all the respect they deserve when we are allowed to do so. In the same way I would like to thank and support with concrete actions - we must do so - all those who are at the forefront: our doctors, our nurses, our socio-health workers, the workers of the centres of help to women (because unfortunately we have seen that violence does not stop even these days), our forces of order, all those who are in the front line and work to allow us to have all those necessary assets to live, I do not say normally, but to live. First of all, they must be protected from the point of view of their health and the people who care every day. That is why there is a need to talk concretely about this issue: too many operators have not yet made the swabs and do not have the necessary protections. However, I would also like to thank our entrepreneurs, our artisans, our farmers, the freelance professionals, all the self-employed, the operators of tourism, culture, all those who are facing this work drama every day with their precious companies and their employees. We must therefore say zero bureaucracy. We have said that we will not leave anyone behind and that is our duty today, our moral obligation that we must reaffirm here in the Senate. We have said that everyone must be helped, but I would like to focus once again, Mr President, on the excessive number of deaths in nursing homes and nursing homes, not only in Lombardy but throughout Italy. In this regard too, the intervention of the Government, of the Regions, of those who run these structures is necessary. It's okay to start surveillance inspections, because we need to understand to the full what's going on and be close to these social, social and health workers who do massacred shifts and who then have to go back to their homes, to their families. That is the priority. Finally, Mr President, I take a few more seconds to address the generations of the elderly, our parents, our grandparents and our children and young people. Even the latter are facing an emergency and fortunately they have never known moments of war, fear and tragedy. I hope that's never gonna happen. We must say good luck to those who are going to undergo the third grade and to all the children, teachers and families we say that we are with them. We're also experimenting with a different way of teaching, distance learning. I don't know if the school can open in May or not. But I say that, if the school does not reopen in May, we must try to invest immediately - even here, without bureaucracy - 2 billion euros (we asked as Italy Viva) to secure our schools, because we have too many school buildings that are not yet. Let's make sure that when you go back to school these boys and girls are put in a position to study even with new tools and especially in safe school buildings. I thank the government for everything we do in the next few days. Let us remain united and try to give immediate answers to our community. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u36	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u37	Mr President, this dramatic affair has caught us and the world by surprise, although, in a sense, we could say that something has already been announced and someone has implied what has happened, but we will go further. However, the clear and unequivocal fact is that from 23 February to today we have had 8 decrees-laws, 9 decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, an endless series of civil protection orders, decrees of the Minister of the Interior and of the Minister of Health, regional ordinances. In short, a bulimia from the regulatory and legislative point of view that has shaken strongly the hold of our system of the hierarchy of sources. We have no legal sources without a precise hierarchy. It has affected personal freedom, but it is Parliament's responsibility. It is Parliament's job to define the limits within which personal freedom can be determined. Therefore, it is certain that all this will necessarily come to Parliament's scrutiny and examination. But, truth be told, if the system of sources is in difficulty and shaken, it is also true that the notion of authority is not there. On the other hand, an old philosopher, Kojève, had taught us that the notion of authority is one of the least studied things. In this regard, it is enough to understand the uncertainty of citizens these days, the innumerable series of self-declarations. Every time they are asked the tax code and residence. These are all data that the administration should already have, but are systematically and repeatedly required. In 1919 Don Luigi Sturzo said: we want bureaucracy reform, judicial reform and legislative simplification. It was 1919 and it has been one hundred and one years, yet Italy is still stuck with problems related to the suffocating bureaucracy that prevents any action. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] Do we want to understand that if we do not set up, at least in these moments of emergency, a system that allows us to help people, citizens and businesses directly, we will never come out of it? On this problem, how do you approach the conversion into law on which you will raise the question of trust tomorrow? The attitude can only remind me of Benjamin's philosophy when, in front of Paul Klee's painting Angelus Novus, he described him as an angel whose wings are spread but his face and gaze turned to the past. We, today, convert a norm, look behind, but we know that all the attention is directed to what will come and, therefore, to the liquidity decree, to the decree of April, to which they entrust themselves magnificent progressive fates of this Government in order to raise again and to at least to secure the country with respect to this dramatic crisis. There have also been a number of issues that some colleagues have addressed earlier: the issue of the responsibility of doctors, the issue of the responsibility of structures. There too: Pavid! All of you! All, on the same day, present the same amendments amending Article 590-e of the Criminal Code which, we know, has been powerfully revised by a judgment of the United Chambers of the Court of Cassation of December 2017. Well, you have all withdrawn that amendment because of the fear of social media. You have not understood that this will be a very important issue, which concerns not only the responsibility of doctors but the responsibility of the structures! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] It concerns the responsibility of this country after the reform of Title V, when it is established that health is a health care with competing functions, where one does not know who decides what and how far. We at Forza Italia had clearly asked, from the outset, for a budget of 100 billion. We have to make everything we have available now: 25 we spend now; 75 we can find them; at least 30 go to the business system with its multipliers; the others serve to give a tax moratorium: tax moratorium for this year. Let's put the hay in the farm. This is a sabbatical year, because there are no other solutions. The shop windows are pulled down, and you haven't even had the common sense to introduce an easy rule like dry coupon for commercial rentals! You rejected an amendment by Forza Italia that, among other things, you of the Movimento 5 Stars had voted, when you were in the Government with the League in 2019. The only decent measure you've done, you've eliminated it and don't think about re-introduce it now. Just as you do not plan to tax for owners who do not receive payment of the rent from the tenant in obvious difficulty. That's what we asked for. We hope that we are wrong but it seems to us that, in fact, the answer that this majority will give will be a modest answer, a confused answer, an answer that thinks that perhaps the income of citizenship (or the extension of the income of citizenship) is the solution to the problems. It is absolutely not the solution to the problems. That approach does not create citizens there and does not give income to the country. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u38	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u39	Mr President, we, the Brothers of Italy, would have liked to have taken the floor here and at this dramatic moment for the country in a truly enthusiastic sense for the cooperation that should have existed among all the members of this Parliamentary Assembly and among all the political forces participating in the democratic institutions of this country. I have to say, however, that we would have wanted to, because that is the case. And I'll prove it, not with an opinion, but with facts. You have not been able to follow words and intentions with objectivity, with reality. It was music for me, President Pesco, to hear his call to collaboration, to the people, to our fellow citizens who are suffering, perhaps in hospitals and homes, waiting for the return of their loved ones, in the hope that they will be healed. It was a pleasure and it was music for me to hear my colleague Sbrollini talk about bureaucracy to be destroyed, about collaboration between political forces: it was really what we of Brothers of Italy, the party of Italian patriots, had in our heart and we said it from the first day. And we also believed it, perhaps because sometimes we are naive; we believed the words of President Conte, when, with his elegant verve, he told us: We listen to you, we cooperate, we have to share a path. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, he listened to us and, as far as I can tell, listened to us with the utmost serenity and formal appreciation, which gave us hope. But what is the result, ladies and gentlemen? The result is that not only has Italy done nothing with the opposition on the decree-law, not only has nothing been accepted by the opposition, but it has even been done to work the Budget Commission and then communicate - even in an unusual way, during the course of the work - that confidence, in the most total contempt, more complete of the democratic institutions and of the collaboration that you had asked for and that we had offered you. [[Applause from the FdI Group]] You, on the other hand, have mocked yourself, first, then the opposition, but above all you have mocked and are mocking the Italian people, the people who suffer, President Pesco, who expected constructiveness, purposefulness and collaboration and who instead see by the majority only a self-centered authoritarianism, which has nothing to do with collaboration, nor with the seriousness of political relations. Dear President, these decree-laws are announced above all before they are read. We are constantly commenting on decree-laws that we mostly learn, in perspective, via Facebook and that we then read a few days later, maybe even a week later, in the Official Journal: another anomalous way of interpreting democracy, but perhaps a majority political part of this Government interprets in this way the operation of democratic institutions. These decrees, the decree-law at our examination, as well as the decree-law that has been announced to us (which, I repeat, we have not yet read, if not in some article that occasionally appears), are - I am not afraid to say it and I do not say it provocatively, but unfortunately, as I explained before, in an objective way - dear Undersecretary, Professor Guerra (and I am sorry that it is you, who, as I have repeated several times, I think very much to have to receive my considerations on the Government: I would like so much to have here in front of President Conte to tell him), a mockery and I prove it to you. They are a mockery of the oppositions, for what I said before: on the one hand you requested cooperation and on the other you did not even want to reflect on the proposals that the center-right made to you. I am a mockery, I believe, of you and of the same members of your majority. I address my fellow citizen, Mr Conzatti, who represents Italy Viva here, because your former Deputy Minister and our colleague, Dr Zanetti, has repeated several times and continues to reiterate, as a cry for pain in the professions and in the economic world, the inconsistency of your measures. So I am not quoting men of Brothers of Italy, but exponents who have been part of your world, of the center-left world, who have been Deputy Ministers in the Renzi Government. These same people clearly state that this is a zero settlement decree-law and that these are inconsistent proposals. You say it yourself, because you know it. Then I would like, at least on this side of the majority, which would appear to have a greater sense of responsibility, to take concrete action, because there can be no opposition and no majority at the same time. Mr President, the decree-law announced - it seems to me right to link these decree-laws, since they are part of a single law in the intervention of the State - and not read - I repeat - I have called it a mockery, for the reasons expressed by the representatives of the professional categories themselves. Today, in all the newspapers are the statements of the president of the National Council of Accountants Doctors, Miani, who strongly criticizes the reality of these measures, while they are in the daily newspaper "Il Sole 24 ORE" today the words of the representatives of the Italian Banking Association (ABI). So I keep quoting not elements of part, but the economic institutions of our country, the doctors accountants, the ABI, the professional categories: it is they who in the specialised newspapers are highlighting your inconsistency and that of a measure, which is sold by Prime Minister Conte, with its eloquence, first of all as the inclusion of 400 billion euros in the economy. The average citizen, when he hears Conte's words, says: "Finally, the state, which didn't even have a euro, now invests 400 billion euros for our future!" Maybe it should have been pointed out a bit better that that 400 billion euro in reality is money that will be in debt and that will have to be paid by the Italian productive companies. But that would be nothing. You didn't actually enliven even 400 billion euros, because to do this - I always quote the report published on "Eutekne", the organ of the doctors accountants, of the former Deputy Minister Zanetti - needed from 25 to 30 billion euros at the basis of this liquidity decree. Well, your announced - and unread - decree does not actually provide for a single euro, because it recovers one billion euros from the repositioning of the old Article 49 of Decree-Law No. 18 of 2020 and takes one billion euros from the funds of the Sace. So, in fact, it doesn't put anything new and, as often happens, when you want to make a wedding with dried figs, what happened happens is that you promise 400 billion euros, knowing that these resources, with this decree, in fact you will never move them. This is what they are reminding you, not a senator of Brothers of Italy, but the representatives of the ABI and the technical bodies of the Italian economic institutions. Mr President, I shall conclude: since I have so many other things to say, allow me at least a minute or a minute and a half to try to finish my speech. There are two things I would like to mention, the first of which is still negative, and then I will try to conclude, for the good I want of the country and for the spirit of trust that I still want to have in this Parliament, with something positive. With regard to the objective criticism of the decree-law that we are examining, I would like to mention the 600 euros, which you give in fact to most VAT-code workers. The problem is that you are unfair, because you also give 600 euros to those of that amount who do not need it. There are billionaires, in wealth and income, who have applied and who will get 600 euros, so with a waste of public money. On the other hand, the people who need them, the artisans reduced to poverty, take the same 600 euros, which will take those who have cars and houses to the hiosa. That's why you're inefficient and inefficient. In the end, you are also discriminatory again, because to that category that you have not always liked very much, that of the freelancers, given - rightly from a certain point of view but inconsistently from the perspective of 600 euros - the limits of revenues. That's why you're irrational, inefficient and inconsistent. Mr President, I shall end, as promised, with hope: there are so many, too many, especially the loss of confidence. Today I have heard that one of the few things that has been transposed by the majority is not an amendment - it is trouble to think that something can be built together in a concrete way - but an agenda. We know that the agendas are often given as a little content. Well, I want to provoke you in a constructive and positive way, Mr. Undersecretary. Today you have adopted an agenda, at my first signature, in which I call for a fiscal currency policy to be finally implemented, and on the lines of a draft law which for a couple of months - not for a couple of years - the Movimento 5 Stars has presented to Parliament. If you really want to overcome the fences; if you really want to have courage; if really this Italy does not want to be succubus of those who from Brussels has ruined us and is ruining us today, we have the courage to raise our voice together and say "yes" in a short time to a policy that determines, with tax credits, with tax credit certificates, a more rosy future for this country and for our economy. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u40	He's enlisted to speak Senator Augussori. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u41	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, who speaks to you is a mere opposition senator, but he is also the only representative in this House who comes from one of the smallest, so far unknown, Provinces of Lodi. For this reason I ask you to listen to me, because through my words all the 230,000 praisers, 15,000 inhabitants of Codogno and 50,000 citizens of the Lower, those of the first red zone are talking to you. The praiser is the land of humble people, great workers, without so many crickets for the head; people who have shown enormous dignity and who have also faced this immense difficulty alone, turning up their sleeves and crying in silence, as we do in our parts. The praiser is the territory that is paying most of all... [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u42	Senator Augussori, I'm sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u43	Colleagues, it may seem strange to you, but the more we are spaced and the more the voice in the Chamber rumbles, so you cannot hear Senator Augussori's speech. Please, Senators Augussori, continue. Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would also like to thank you because, believe me, it is not easy at all. As I said, the lodigiano is the territory that is paying most of all, not in absolute values given its small size, but certainly in proportional terms, even more than the martyred land of Bergamo near us and to which we hold with a hug. [[Applause.]] An entire generation has been cancelled, not that of the youngest as happens at war, but that of the weakest: the grandparents, our fathers, our mothers. Your cold statistics count every day, every afternoon, the positives and the deceased. When it's all over, we'll count the living, the survivors. What we are living and who is living who fights in the front line is an unequal struggle against two enemies: the virus and bureaucracy. The first hits you frontally, the second attacks you behind and kills you with wrong sendings of useless masks, with promised fans that never arrive. Allow me, therefore, once again to thank those who, almost with their bare hands, are also sacrificing their lives to save many others. [[Applause]] , hospital doctors, nursing staff and basic doctors. To do so, I would like to mention two of them, so that even symbolically their names may be carved in the Reports of this Assembly: they are the director of the First Aid of Lodi, whose emergency management procedures have been modelled by everyone, and the anesthesiologist of Codogno, who, surpassing the protocols given by the Central State, has allowed the discovery of what we all know as the patient 1 [[Applause.]] As we know, the health emergency immediately became economical and residents in the first red zone were able to experience this situation before and more than others, because they were subject to a total closure from 23 February to 8 March, two weeks more than any other Italian. For a criterion of fairness, I ask you to recognize the greatest damage suffered by these ten municipalities and the whole province of Lodi. I ask you for three precise and punctual interventions, which, given the small size of this territory, are for the Government little more than symbolic, but which can mean the difference between life and death for our productive and social fabric. The first is the establishment of the ZES (Special Economic Zone) for the province of Lodi or, in the alternative, for the former red zone alone, which guarantees a package of fiscal measures, but not only, to boost employment and production. The second consists of a fund for coatings, which we estimated at EUR 20 million, to be allocated to the municipalities of the red zone for schools, roads and buildings of the municipal heritage. The third is the doubling of the allowance for self-employed persons, VAT consignments and so on to compensate for the economic damage suffered during the period prior to the general closure. These are the three simple proposals that we have put forward and which we, together with my Group, have prepared in the form of amendments and which we ask you to approve, in order to give a real sense to the closeness expressed, so far only in words, to the land of Lodi. However, you have decided to put the question of trust, so by your choice these amendments - like so many others - will become scrap paper, because they cannot even be put to the vote. You will not have my vote on the request for political trust, but I want to try to have the confidence that you can take these proposals into account by including them in the next decree-law. I will be here to remind you, on behalf of all the praisers who today feel betrayed and abandoned by you and who look at you: do not forget it, do not forget them. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az) I Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u44	Senator Richetti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u45	Mr President, I cannot breathe when I speak, when I wear the mask, so I will only put it down for a moment, because I have this problem. I believe that our debate today also shows the limits of the way in which we are dealing with the current phase. The mutual recrimination on non-cooperation, on a willingness only evoked and then not manifested or on the irresponsibility used in such a difficult phase does not take us very far. I address the Undersecretary Cecilia Guerra, whose listening and attention I know: from the lack of political force I represent, I ask the Government to put an end to a way that anticipates the measures, that is, the press conferences of the 20, after the news, to which you have now taken taste; I understand that they tell and create the element of liking and consent, feeling from which I imagine that the Premier is being caressed, but it is a deeply wrong practice. It was wrong when the EUR 600 initiative for VAT consignments was advanced, without focusing on a procedure that would work. It was wrong, even if very effective, to anticipate Saturday evening, with families at the table and also with little respect for those who are really at the forefront, namely the mayors of this country, the measure of support of the municipalities, which was a technicality - and you could explain it much better than me, Mr Undersecretary - that is, the advance of a fund of resources already of the municipalities. It is very good to communicate with the citizens, it is fundamental at a stage like this, but when you are able to tell the citizens what the measure is, what criteria are laid down, what requirements are needed and where they are addressed. In the same way it is profoundly wrong what happened two nights ago when, beyond the figures, of this foolish, stupid and inconclusive chase to the numbers of the resources, it is said that a powerful injection of liquidity will be made without having concluded the measure, without having explained how they are obtained and what the times are. Then rightly the entrepreneurs and not only, but anyone interested in the measures, this morning in the newspapers reads that the president of the Italian Banking Association (ABI) Patuelli, in an interview very sober and very respectful, also with appreciation for the address that has been used, declares that it will not be possible to get to the companies in times of sprint the liquidity assisted by the public guarantees launched with the decree-law approved Monday by the Government Count. In essence, I do not tell you to stop communicating, but do so once the measures are concluded, otherwise we are using - and I say this without accusation - a phase in which the frightened, especially the most fragile, have a propensity to rely, thanks to heaven, also on the institutions, to build a basis of trust and consensus that will be written on the sand. On the other hand, I also understand how the attitude of the most significant oppositions of Parliament today, those of the parliamentary right, is that of those who, even on this occasion, do not give up unscrupulousness, until the disrespectful resort to the deepest feelings - I think of those related to the religious faith of people - for yet another injection of anti-Europeanism and begged sovereignism. [[Applause from the Mixed Group.]] If, in fact, we were all honest with this country, we would say that Europe's problem is that sovereignism and selfishness are prevailing, which do not allow Europe to make Europe, anything but stories. From this point of view, as I am putting myself in this debate, we have proposed a number of amendments as action. Minister Gualtieri asked us to remain in the perimeter of the decree cure Italy and we did it: on the integration fund we had asked for the equalization between what employees will receive and VAT matches and so it will not be. Some things have been transposed, although very few. I believe that we are continuing in an attitude that is too self-referential and too closed. I would therefore urge you, Mr Undersecretary, to use the next few hours to do what is necessary, namely to create a real space for comparison in the definition of measures because otherwise, with the only parliamentary dynamic, we will not succeed. And since I am reading and listening - I have seen that the Secretary of the Democratic Party proposes an ad hoc decree on simplification and that the one on liquidity is not that of April - this decree so fragmented does not allow anyone to put on the table all the problems that you know well, perhaps better than many of us, that concern the current economic system. (14.55) (Following RICHETTI). Each of us is receiving very concrete phone calls. Sorry, what happens to the corporate recapitalisation obligation? Let me point out that we live in a country in which those who close the loss-making financial years this year are also obliged to recapitalisation, that is to say to put money in a system in which money is not there and we are building forms of supply that work badly to date. There will therefore be the problem of suspending this mode, as there will be to deal overall with all that the lack of turnover involves: the lack of turnover and the lack of production are not only issues solved once the mortgages to the banks, the taxes to the State and with the workers in the Cassa Integrazione, because there are the penalties, there is the lack of gain, there are the logics of warehouse, in addition to the decaying of the materials. I think, Mr Secretary, that we need a single, unified forum where we can make this contribution. I don't do it in vindictive terms: now it's your choice. Now it is your choice whether or not to continue to understand the unity of political forces such as the bilateral Count-Salvini; we have already seen what the Count-Salvini produce in this country: 100 quota, citizenship income and other things that do not seem edifying to me. If you want to open a season of real unity then do it by calling the best skills in the country, including those of politics. Do not do it alone but together, it would have the value to tell the Italians that everyone is called to rebuild, to rethink our country, because working in Italy, studying in Italy, moving in Italy will no longer be the same as before. To have an authoritative call requires a call from the unity of political forces. Whenever Action is called to make its contribution in this regard, it will not fail. [[Applause from Senators Conzatti and Quagliariello.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u46	She's enlisted to speak Senator Abbot. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure that we are going to approve today contains a set of measures necessary to deal with the emergency linked to the spread of the coronavirus, increasing the provision of staff, tools and resources available to the National Health System, Civil Protection and the Police, including a series of interventions to address the economic impact of the emergency on workers, families and businesses. The measure also includes a number of measures both for the fruit and vegetable sector and for fisheries, sectors which, at the moment, together with the health sector, are strategic. As a well-established practice, the Agriculture Commission has now also worked on this matter, taking into account the demands of all political forces and tabling amendments which, beyond signature, have been shared by the majority. The agricultural sector has been seriously affected by the emergence of the Covid-19, both due to the contraction of markets and the impact on marketing due to the extreme perishability of products, and by the compromise of many agronomic practices and the negative consequences on work that will have repercussions in the rest of the season. For some sectors, in fact, the disastrous situation created threatens to undermine the survival of many companies and among these there is also the flowering sector, which traditionally derives 70 percent of its turnover from the outcome of this season. The measures that mainly and strictly concern agriculture in the decree-law in question are: raising from 50% to 70% of the advance of the CAP (Common Agricultural Policy); setting up a fund of EUR 100 million for 2020 to protect agricultural, fisheries and aquaculture enterprises: money that will serve to cover the total interest accrued over the last two years on loans contracted by enterprises; an increase of EUR 50 million for 2020 of the fund for the distribution of food to the needy. Moreover, the granting of the supplementary fund by way of derogation for private sector workers; the recognition - for those who carried out at least 50 actual working days in 2019 - of an allowance of EUR 600 for the month of March, which will not contribute to earning income; the extension, from 1 June 2020, of applications for agricultural unemployment benefit to all workers; the establishment of a fund of EUR 300 million for 2020 for all those workers who have had to cease, reduce or suspend their activity and their employment relationship; the establishment of another fund at Ismea of EUR 80 million for support to specific credit for agricultural and fisheries enterprises. Finally, loans and other outstanding loans are suspended until 30 September 2020. For the fishing sector, specific that the fund of 100 million euros will serve to cover the costs of the stop of the fishing and of all the certifications. In addition, the tests of fishing vessels for professional fishing, which are due to expire in these months, are extended to 30 September 2020. Aquaculture will also benefit from all these instruments in support of the sector. I did not want to make a mere list of the measures taken; I wanted to summarize what we have put in place to cope - in March alone - with what has been called the biggest crisis since the Second World War. The citizens remain calm, because other measures have already been put in place to deal with this terrible crisis and in favour of companies and families. No one will lose their jobs; no one will lose their dignity above all, nor will they be left alone at this difficult time for all humanity. I would like to thank in particular the doctors, the Forces of the Order and also the President Conte, because in these difficult times and days he has kept the hearts of the Italians united. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u48	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u49	Mr President, representatives of the Government, there are some elements which I think are particularly interesting to highlight in our debate today and which relate to what has seemed to me from the very beginning to be a new form of "straint of the innocent": only this time the innocent were not those under the age of two, but those over the age of seventy, seventy-five or eighty years. A real massacre, in which at least three important elements converged: the first concerns the often dramatically negative conditions in which these people usually live. We know the situation of some RSAs and the conditions of degradation that have been shown to us on television in several passages. This was a very important factor, to keep in mind as possible because of the massacre. The second important factor is that dead people died also because they were carriers of other pathologies. Among the many pathologies, obviously, being elderly, there was definitely COPD, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, typical of the chronic smoker. It is therefore a pathology closely linked to an inadequate application of the old Sirchia law, which at this time would need a real maquillage, which is more than just a dusting on the law, but it is its revisitation in the light of the new patterns of smoke that compromise respiratory function. In all this it was enough a single case of an infected person for the whole community to be pulverized by the infection, which spread from one to the other as often happens with a fire. This means that there are many responsibilities. I would say that those who make the best impression in this case are precisely those nurses, who even we have had the opportunity to see many times on television, and those doctors who have worked in direct service, in place at that time, but who have not been able to do anything for the conditions of degradation of some of these structures and for the "degradation" conditions of these people's lungs. It is therefore a complex problem. In the 12th Commission, of which I am a member, we had already tried, before all this raging, to start a survey to see how, for example, the famous palliative treatments are applied in the RSAs. We had made a kind of cultural bridge between Law No. 38 of 2010 and the current situation, to understand how in the RSA were guaranteed palliative care to the elderly. The practical demonstration we've had these days is the ultimate chaos. There is another thing that I want to highlight: a lot has already been said - and I bow to it - about the unconditional dedication with which doctors have worked: prolonged shifts, impossibility of exchanges, hospitals that arise new as mushrooms, but that as such need not only beds of intensive care, but also professionals who know how to manage these patients. We have been involved in this new-graduate and not yet specialized medical operation, we have seen the involvement of doctors resident in the second or third year, but we have not seen a clear and structural measure that took note of how for years the needs of doctors in the country are underestimated and how shamefully underestimated the need for scholarships and specialization schools for doctors for years. We would have liked to see a strong structural measure in our examination which, for example, equates the number of students enrolled in the medical faculty, because there is 98% of graduates, with the number of scholarships for specialization schools. We would have liked it to be understood that the country, at this moment, in the face of an emergency of this kind, cannot need children like those we saw yesterday on television, who answered the phone talking to relatives or patients of the sick and who gave us great tenderness. We would have wanted doctors in the patient's bed and specialists can be there, that is, those to whom we have made available a scholarship for their specialization. Also in this case many words, smoky (it has been said of contracts to three months, to six months, certainly not contracts to a year), but not a measure that gave reason to the real need of the country. Thirdly, I should like to conclude by saying that the great fraud that has been done against equal schools, to which we have not been able to pay for their quotas and fees, in the face of a large number of families whose economic conditions have greatly deteriorated, have not been able to offer anything at all. We are somehow, surreptitiously, creating the conditions for a great cultural tradition of the country to slowly disappear, for measures that are really dramatically linked to a lack of perspective and also a lack of respect for what our Constitutional Charter provides. On these three points, I would ask that the next decree read that attention should not be that kind, for which I also thank the Commission, its President and the Government, who was present, for the approval of the agendas, because an agenda is a genuine and effective objective only if it then gives rise to concrete decisions that change the system. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u50	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u51	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government, before the pandemic, the state of health of our country was not reassuring at all and all the political forces represented in this House, in the recent past, as in the present, who more and less, from the benches of the majority and those of the minority, have tried to make their contribution to remedy and to contribute to development. I mean that last February 22, Italy was already wounded in the body and soul, in the body of its infrastructure, first and foremost the road infrastructure: we think of the tragedy of the Morandi bridge, and today is the news of the collapsed bridge between La Spezia and Massa Carrara. She was also injured in railway, water, school and health infrastructure; there were already serious deficiencies and faulty delays: I think of the Health Park, which we have been waiting for twenty years in Turin, but also of the TAV, which has been permanently in the swamp of controversy. And I could go on for hours. In the same way Italy was already wounded in the soul - yes, in the soul - with its young people and their poor hopes for the future, with unemployment, inequalities, confrontation to human dignity and violated rights. Then came the pandemic that made tragic what was already dramatic and now more than ever we all have to apologize to the citizens. I am right: apologise to the citizens. Although it has not been done and could be done in the past, we apologize because we ask for an immense effort from an already exhausted body. For our part, as a political class, we must in every way avoid making the same mistakes and, for example, begin to free the country from the suffocating strait of a bureaucracy that prevents the realization in reasonable times even of the best intentions. We are even seeing in these extraordinary days how easy and dangerous it is in our public administration to get bogged down in procedures. It is enough to see the enormous difficulty in accessing the benefits of income support, both by companies and by individual workers. I confess that if the Government does not act for a strong deburocratization aimed at obtaining certain times, in the future I would have difficulty voting on the next decrees. We struggle to learn the lesson of the past, when we quarreled, to the sound of preliminary questions, about the legal texts about what were the real emergencies and the real needs. This is an emergency, we know it now, but we all have the duty and responsibility to keep the country united so that no one feels left alone and it is a commitment that applies to both the majority and the opposition forces. Each of us knows, because we can touch him with hand, that this decree-law will not be decisive, that no amendment will be, and neither will provision No 2, nor provision No 3 and not even provision No 4. Personally, I too have had the opportunity to point out, in comparison with my Group, that there are shortcomings in the text of this first measure and I have also checked that other measures are already on track and others will come, after careful monitoring that we all have to do together. I am thinking of the delay in state payments to suppliers. The State, with all its articulations, must honour its debts and, if this is not possible, it is essential that the debts of suppliers to the public administration can be certified and compensated with taxes. Then there will be the time to measure the shortcomings that have emerged over the last few days, but this is not the time, nor is it the time for the number of measures and amendments that will ensure the recovery. This is not the time for surveys and accusations; the numbers that now matter are those of the loved ones who have left us and of the families of health workers, transport, the food supply chain and essential services that are at the forefront every day. It is with the thought addressed to them that we must roll up our sleeves to make our contribution. The decree-law cures Italy, even in the grandioseness of the title, is not and does not want to be the panacea of all evil; from 17 March it arrives at the vote in a scenario that changes with a speed still daily and we are asked to keep up, often moving blind because of the extraordinary situation. However, only the ability that we will have to make it operational quickly will allow us to give the first necessary answers to families, businesses and workers, demonstrating that we have understood the new and terrible meaning of the word "emergency." The theme of a timely release of liquidity, of landing these first 23 billion euros of the decree-law in order to safeguard the survival of individuals, of nuclei, but also the future of our companies, is crucial; therefore, we need to give way to the measures that this liquidity can put in circulation. We must do so and quickly, without delay, giving up old and bad habits, those that the country can no longer afford today. [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u52	Senator Rufa is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u53	Mr President, my heart and prayers are addressed to the more than 17,000 victims of the Covid; my speech will focus on politics and will touch the articles of the decree-law, but without forgetting and disrespecting family members, relatives, friends who are crying and especially those who are struggling in hospitals. I would add that if I happen to forget some man, woman or category who is living and suffering this hard and anguish period, I apologize for it right now. Colleagues, we need simple, clear, more understandable language and a more effective, faster, more present policy to respond to needs and, above all, urgent needs. And the more complex and uncertain the rules are, the more conditioning and complicity of powers that people no longer want. The more complex the bill is, the more evident it is that there are too many hands interested in writing it and even obligations and constraints on the part of Europe. But the days pass and with them the hours, those hours that ordinary people live with anguish, but also the hope that the policy - we - is ready to prepare and defend it. But you are a clever and arrogant government with the weak and fools and succubs with Europe. You have sat down without having been voted on for this role, and not even at such a serious and urgent time have you accepted counsel and loyal cooperation. For at least a month and a half we have been worrying about how to respect people who really work and talk about CAI and CRIF. But I think it's too late now, don't you? I ask the Government whether it is late or not to give further answers to companies and doubts. And I remind you - or I explain to you - that they are acronyms that mark for a non-payment or late payment and the reported is claimed for life as a bad payer. The reporting in CAI is made by cheques discovered; the reporting in CRIF is due to a failure or delayed payment of a loan and is a SIC, i.e. a credit information system in which the data relating to debt exposures to banks such as loans, leases, loans and exposures are collected. Yeah, the trusts, the ones I've been asking for more than a month and a half. The trust is a commitment of the bank to make available a sum of money, however, against a guarantee covering income profiles and above all assets. If you don't pay the trust rate, the bank will take the collateral, the assets you sweat. Now, an account is to have been irresponsible, negligent and unprepared; another is to have been obliged to stop their business: this obviously means the impossibility of honoring the cheque of their trust, mortgage, leasing or installment. But this means shutting down a company and killing honors, sacrifices, desires and projects of an Italian who for years has already paid too many taxes even to keep your seats. Unfortunately you are lulled into the idea that, although many small and medium-sized enterprises will think of abandoning everything, asking for the income of citizenship and being risk-free from the state as much as possible, working perhaps in black (and I have even heard that there are those who are worrying about this category), you already know that this will not happen for their honesty and stubbornness. In too many, however, they do not know what it means to work, the enthusiasm to open a shutter and cure and to grow an activity, to invest resources and always seek improvements, technology and labor, to earn with a spirit of sacrifice but always with the worry to arrive at the end of the month to pay also and above all the salary to their boys and that, in order to pay everything and everyone, often you remain without a euro in your pocket. These are the same pockets from which we draw the satisfactions of being a true and loyal worker, who suffered, sweated and wept and who helped - he did - to grow Italy and the Italians, the most admired and appreciated people in the world. Other than evaders, exploiters cheaters and rich! In fact, rich, yes, but of dignity. Covid-19 is trying to infect these values. The government's only vaccine would have been a timely, clear, strong and concrete intervention: money to banks, banks to companies, companies to companies, companies to workers, workers to families, families to children. No, you don't. Mr Gualtieri in the Commission invited us to be concrete and pragmatic, but speaking of answers to business he commented with etcetera, etcetera, without understanding that behind the etcetera there are the doubts and hopes of companies. Unfortunately, the degrees in economics and master's degrees do not serve unless one understands and does not live the suffering of those who work and of the small and medium-sized enterprises that make Italy. It's like seeing a beautiful sea from above without realizing that there's a world underneath it. In this decree-law, late and incomplete, you have not given comfort and certainty to block any reports that are mud and difficulty for the activity. But we hope that at least you will be able to block Europe and the world waiting as vultures for our artisans, streetwalkers, farmers, workers and farm owners to be killed on the ground. Put it well in the lead: Italian activities only by choice of program are sold, but they will never sell out. You may not feel the need for quick answers and the complexity of bureaucracy. Six days, for example, to start producing masks, by those who make themselves available; upstream of the will of the organization, three days for the authorization of the Higher Institute of Health and another three days from Civil Protection; and then a blockage. Or six days to ask for the conversion of ordinary treatment of wage integration or ordinary allowance, in Article 19, because, to the three days estimate of the companies, it takes - who knows why - three more days of judgment of the trade unionists in jacket and tie. On the contrary, I take this opportunity to thank the complex work of accountants, collaborators and job consultants, who must interpret articles with pressing need. Urgentness means immediateness of certain answers. The National Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, and the World Health Organisation, will then have to give us a calm response. At this moment, the most evident evidence of immediacy, organization, certainty and will, are shoving it in our faces doctors, nurses, health workers, pharmacists and volunteering all, who prove to be true and holy men. Holy are those who have given their lives to save others. And don't think of anyone, as we asked in an article, to bear their criminal, civil, accounting or revenge liability during this difficult period. On the contrary, for our moral obligation and gratitude, let them be granted a generous allowance in exchange for their sacrifices. And when we leave, we will need a clear method for our companies. A flat tax: do it at 30%, but do it; a clear and unique taxation. Second level DEA will be needed in each province and, above all, medical faculty without a closed number, where it goes on who is already more prepared by the high school and who is more willing. Brecht said, don't expect any answers beyond yours. This is the strength of every Italian, of doctors, nurses, of the Forces of order, of the Police, of the Prison Police, to which is asked to open the prisons, in article 123, of the Municipal Police, of the Carabinieri and of the prefects, but also of the journalists, of the transporters, of the couriers, of the drivers and of all the Italians who, thanks to the commitment and the sacrifice, respect the moment and value it with gestures of true love. I close by thanking the researchers from now on, returning to their work. Today we look with pride and hope at the researchers and their mission. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u54	He's enlisted to speak Senator Quagliariello. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u55	Mr President, representatives of the Government, this morning I thought it would not be easy to speak in this debate, for institutional reasons, and I must say that the course of the debate has confirmed me in this conviction. In reality, today we examine a decree that recalls previous decrees, in some way entered its belly, and that looks at another decree, which will be issued, perhaps, in a few hours, and whose effects, therefore, will be more or less contemporary to the approval of the present provision. And, on the other hand, we have the so-called liquidity decree. In fact, we discussed all these issues together in the debate. How did the majority and the government respond to this situation, which I would call emerging? It was done with a government-opposition table of which, representing the parliamentary component of Cambiamo!, small but fierce, I was part. I can testify to the institutional courtesy that has been used in this table. This is an institutional courteousness which is certainly an important fact but which, in short, is not denied to anyone. It was not denied even to De Gasperi when he was the representative of a power that had signed an unconditional surrender at the peace table. This institutional courtesy has been translated into a series of agendas, which should be transposed into the next decree-law. It is not a small matter, Mr Undersecretary, and for that, of course, in such a situation, we must thank you. I believe, however, even in the light of the words that have been said, that we should be aware of something more and perhaps we should all be aware of them together. See that this story will not end with a sudden press conference by President Conte, after Amadeus, who will tell us that from tomorrow everything returns like the day before the closure. We are at an epochal turning point, which will call into question our way of being together, our places of sociality, the parameters of security, personal freedom and also the necessary reweaving of an economic fabric, which will be very conditioned by the reopening. I mean, the reopening will be a restart, a restart. The question that I ask myself and which I ask you - and to which I believe you will have to find a way of giving an answer - is whether this restart you want to face alone, using institutional courtesy towards the forces that are not in the majority, or whether this restart, going beyond the roles that are and must remain sacred, must be managed all together. I believe that this is the basic question, Mr Sfafe Secretary, which underlies many of the speeches that have been made so far. Everyone says, even in a somewhat rhetorical way, that it will be like after a war. But after the last war in this country there were far deeper divisions than there are today between the majority and the opposition, yet there was a way for a common departure; that common departure was sculpted in a text, our republican constitution, which probably likes you more than I do, but which we all respect in this House. Do we want to ask ourselves the question of how we share? Do we want to ask ourselves the problem of ensuring that this restart is not a way to deepen even more the divisions present in this country, which are not political divisions, but are perhaps geopolitical as that between North and South, which risk being further strengthened by what is happening? Mr Undersecretary, more than the opinion on an agenda, for which, if it is positive, we will thank you, we would like the Government to find a way of telling us this: whether it wants to do it alone or if it wants to find the space and ways to leave all together. Let me add one last thing: start all together, giving the experts the space that belongs to them. It is clear that in this situation the experts must have a place, but without forgetting, Mr President (I have finished), that the choices, in the dramatic moments of the country, must make her policy, cannot make her the technicians. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u56	Senator Quagliariello, thank you also for your perfect adherence to the times you were assigned.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u57	Senator Nencini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to try to give a reading not on the subject - other Members of the Group have already done so and, I repeat, I agree - of the two decree-laws, what we are talking about today and what will be discussed after Easter, in a synergistic and joint manner. There is no doubt, in fact, also because of the commitments made by the Government in the competent Commission, when we discussed amendments and agendas, that commitments related to the first decree-law care Italy we were somehow retransmitted in the second measure or, at least, in the discussion that will take place in not many days. There is one point from which we must start and which I believe from the speeches we have heard is more or less in agreement, within the Assembly and I imagine also in the Government: there is no emergency as in the post-war case. The epidemiological emergency is long and from a time point of view cannot be fixed in a calendar. All experts and scientists assume it has a not indifferent length of time. If so, we must begin to imagine what is the strategy to emerge from an extraordinary drama, which has no equal and which certainly produces three factors, beyond the length, about which Senator Quagliariello spoke with a tone of optimism, which alas I do not share, which are absolutely questioned. First of all, the elements on which the West has been founded for five hundred years, namely: the ethics of work, democracy as we have known it and the valorization of freedom. These three factors, at this stage and in the time following this, are likely to suffer irreversible damage. Secondly, the idea of unlimited progress, on which our societies have been based since the end of the eighteenth century, falls. Thirdly, fear is dominating. The Italians, on average, live in three rooms, with children and sometimes even with elderly people. Keeping them closed, as it was and it is necessary to do, for thirty, thirty-five or forty days and presumably more, with the awareness that the future will not be equal to the past, constitutes a risk factor, which risks generating deep social fractures. That's why we need, in addition to the decree-law, a vision linked to a chronoprogram, for a phase that, more than phase 2, is the phase that concerns the future and tomorrow of Italy. What we know from today has two heads: the first is that he will win who has a broad vision. Presentism must be thrown into a song and perhaps let it macerate and rot in there, without lifting it up. The second is that there will be a need for more state, a state that I call humanized, to cope with very probable social tensions and to cope with equally probable depression. So we must begin to ask ourselves, within the next phase, that it will be the decisive one, such as the Government, Parliament and the powers of this extraordinary Italy will intend to move. Question: is it time to reason for a Constitution, since Title V of our Constitution, at least in the part that concerns the division of powers in the field of health, is constantly being called into question? How do you guarantee privacy, by having to increase the forms of vigilance and control? These are issues that pertain to a constituent, because they affect the Constitutional Charter, launched seventy years ago. Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, I would like to make a second and penultimate consideration. Italy experienced similar situations, but not the same, twice in the twentieth century and came out in two ways not different, but opposed. What happened in 1920-1922 we know perfectly well. But we also know perfectly well how it emerged from an equally dramatic crisis, perhaps even more, between 1943-1944 and 1948. I definitely prefer the second way out, but when we expect a sharing with a clearly split Parliament, with firmly accentuated forms of sovereignism, which I find out of time (but they exist and must be taken into consideration), we need to foresee an intermediate passageway of this painful path. The middle station must be planned now: I am referring to a directing booth where we put not the political secretaries of the parties, but institutional representatives (parliamentary, Government, Regions, majority and opposition), and where we also put the science and the best intelligences of this country. In fact, one does not emerge from such a crisis if science and politics do not sum up their experiences and qualities. The last issue concerns Europe. We can turn the sock as we please, Mr President, but Europe is not there. History always teaches one thing, with a decisive and alarming fixity: when jumps are made and when important historical passages are made, processes accelerate. Either politics manifests its deep-rooted and strong presence, so either politics imposes itself in these passages, or the baronies of financial lobbying and whatever else predominate. And it is a predominance from which then, if they manage to build this phase of passage making it stable and definitive, they are no longer unraveled. So next to the opportunity there is also a great risk: it is a game that Italy alone cannot play. There is only Europe that can do that; they would serve leaders, pioneers, as in 1944, 1945, 1946 and 1947, but today they are not seen. The only hope is that, being a passing time, this time will create new leaders. It has already happened and I hope it will happen. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator Bonino is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u59	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I will not vote against a measure that you have called Italian care, even if it is a sober decree of 120 articles and 274 pages, so not only difficult to understand, but even difficult to read. As for the citizen, who is more or less locked in the house, it was really difficult to understand and move among the 151 measures taken so far, between ordinances, decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, ministerial decrees and anything else. I will not vote against this measure because, like everyone else, I am aware of how dramatic the moment we are experiencing is; I am aware of the admirable effort of so many nurses, policemen and so on, who work hard to ensure that the suffering and restrictions of these dark times are for all of us less heavy and less long as possible. I am aware of the difficulties faced by those who work with the elderly; all the tertiary sector, for example, which provides us with essential services, whether commercial or not; workers in the fields and companies that continue to produce; Italians always or people who have come to Italy from afar, foreigners, but who work in our homes, in our farms, in our supermarkets. As Minister Bellanova said, without them in a few weeks the products will rot in the fields. I am aware of the work of the scientific community of our country, because never as today it is essential to know how to deliberate. I am aware of the difficulties of those who are making decisions and for this reason, while seeing errors and omissions that many pretend not to see, until we speak of an Italian model, I think we should expect to draw conclusions on merits, demerits and responsibility in the containment of contagion. I am referring to the unpreparedness with which we have come to this appointment, to the untimely announcements, to the late decisions, to the choices not to make tampons, to the scarcity of masks and other protective devices, which have tragically missed the appeal. I am also referring to the uncontrolled spread of contagion in residences for the elderly and in hospitals and, above all, to the clash - or lack of coordination - between the State and the Regions and between them. We are going to have a serious and tough debate on this - I hope - in the parliamentary classrooms, when the time comes and when the fire is tamed or, at least, under control. I will not vote against: despite the fact that I find it irresponsible to manage the situation in prisons with a minimum of humanity in terms of legality and health security; despite the fact that I find it a mistake, just today, to put hundreds of millions of euros still in Alitalia, and then to predict their nationalization; despite the Government, which has reached the crisis with the highest debt and the lowest growth, I have never even thought or had the courage to suspend the 100 quota early retirements; despite the fact that after two years we have a force to the Government that claims to be the champion of digital innovation, the INPS website has miserably collapsed and the institute has given frankly false or ridiculous explanations; and despite above all a diplomacy of the epidemic, which has led you to emphasize the aid arrived from Russia, China and Cuba, but to silence the decisive ones coming from Europe, not only in terms of health devices, but of loans arrived immediately from the ECB, without which you would have done neither the decree-law cure Italy nor the one you are going to issue. And I do not want to make controversy, Senator Nencini, but it is not Europe that is not there: it is the Europe of the Member States that is not there, because the ECB is there, the Commission has made proposals and the EIB has shown itself available; where everything is blocked - yesterday, tonight and, hopefully, tomorrow, governments' meetings. I will not vote against this, even though your position in Europe has been tormented by vetoes and prejudices of the Count II Government and by the watchwords of the sovereign oppositions. Allowing a never-repentant European federalist like me, one that the United States of Europe really wants them, to say that rejecting the ESM, even on very unreasonable conditions, is a mistake for a country like Italy, all the more so if Eurobonds are required. I think that the urgency of liquidity is such that all possible instruments should be used now, for businesses, for the unemployed, for families, and so on. In the meantime, we need to think about the eurobonds, because, ladies and gentlemen, even if there was a political way in this area these days, we all know that it would take at least a year before clauses are put into operation, because of the legal system that needs to be set in motion, and so on. So let's use what's there and, if we don't want to call it MES or bonds, let's call it another name, but today we can't refuse liquidity, even without conditions. The Eurobonds - and I close - we federalists have been asking for them for a long time, because we want a European budget that is adequate to finance the policies of the European Union with its own resources, its own debt and not of individual states. But the Eurobonds, I repeat, in addition to having times that do not make them available immediately, also involve the recognition of increased European sovereignty. The negotiation of these hours, excuse me, is not the failure of the Community Europe: it is the failure of sovereign States, of their inability to derive a European interest in the mere compensation of alleged national interests. And Italy cannot be called out of this responsibility. Despite everything, my Group and myself will not vote against: we will abstain not to vote against the Government of our country which, after these tragic and decisive hours for Italy, we hope to return to the European table tomorrow with a seriously negotiating and seriously constructive attitude.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u60	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u61	I must invite you, too, Senator - I have this particular task - to speak from the microphone that Senators Quaestors have indicated: I did not understand well why, but I obey my colleagues Quaestors of the Senate.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u62	Mr President, it is very difficult for me to speak today; I am usually much more relaxed and I also make a few jokes, but today it gives me a lot of sadness and a lot of pain. First of all, I express words of closeness to my colleagues Mayors, who are engaged on the territory day and night, who cannot even come here to the Senate because they have to take care of their people. I wish to send my humble, humble embrace to all those who care for us, who care for our loved ones, those who are still in hospitals and those who have been accompanied to death and who have not been able to tighten. [[Applause]] I begin my speech with a metaphor: why play with four hands? In general, two or more people playing together different parts develop a sense of rhythm and concentration in performance much more than if they played on their own. The four-piece piano songs, even if the instrument is the same, get used to keeping pace and put the technical preparation of the two performers to the test, since both are forced to listen, in addition to their own performance, also that of the companion next door. So, if the preparation is not more than solid, it is very easy to get confused and therefore wrong. When you play with four hands, the pianist who has the simplest part must go after any mistakes of his partner. In order to perform the best four-handed song, each of the two pianists must learn his part perfectly, studying it alone, not immediately with his partner: then they can instead try together and the song will succeed perfectly, without having done too much effort. I could also appeal simply to the so-called fair play or correct game, a behavior that respects the rules that guarantees the same opportunities to the different contenders in sport, politics and human and social relations. I mean, on this occasion so frighteningly dramatic of a health emergency, there wasn't even this time. We have had the opportunity to do so; we have heard our fellow Members speak before, to enter into the detail of this decree-law which should, in all cases, embrace the needs of a frightened Italian people, who are afraid of the now, but also of the after. There wasn't, we had proof. I had it myself, until tonight, at 2:30 a.m., when I examined amendment by amendment, the many non-onerous amendments that could have been the one known to four hands that would have meant that this could have been a good composition. And instead, they were all rejected, regardless of their content, because they were not good, either because they will be taken back in a next decree-law, or because we did not have time, because the investigation is not over, and whoever has more put them. All this has been really bleak because, the Government and we who represent the Italians who have regularly elected us, we are all spokesmen of people, of small portions, of life segments. We all had something good to bring that was not simply relegated to the small amendment or to the small agenda. But that was it. What has come out of it, that will come out, will be a composition, a decree-law lame, that will not be able to grasp in all parts the necessities that colleagues before me have listed with a force, a determination and a frightening pain, even in the emergency health. This makes us think; it makes us think because it puts us in the condition, once back in our territories, to look at our people with eyes full of tears; people waiting for the time when it will reopen, how it will reopen, what we will do about our next. They are waiting for answers, while we are unable to reassure them. I feel a certain shame for this because I do not belong to the monster, the fact that I have approved something and that I can spend it in a press conference, perhaps concealing the numbers, raising them, inflating them, modifying them or distorting them in their content. This does not belong to me, but it belongs to me the desire and the need for answers that I will not be able to give, like all those who spoke before me. This House is so institutional in its scarlet red color. Today I took the trouble to understand why it has this color so bright, because it is a part of History; I let you go and see and discover. Well, today this scarlet color does not remember History, but recalls the blood of the Italians and the tears that will continue to pour if you do not start, as Government, as institutions, you first, to lay down your weapons, axes, to put you at a table really and, with the fair play that takes us in these dramatic, emergency situations, which are a real war, learn to collaborate. Learning to try to play with four hands, which may seem silly and ridiculous, but it is an exercise of great dignity and collaboration that History has also taught us on many occasions and that we could remember, you could have remembered, and put into action. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u63	She is registered to speak Senator Montevecchi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u64	Mr President, at this time of emergency, in an overall context in which everyone is experiencing enormous difficulties, our children and our children are experiencing various forms of material, but also emotional and psychological discomfort. So today my speech and my attention want to be directed to them, especially to those who live with disabilities and various forms of fragility. Important measures have been taken by this Government and I thank, in particular, Minister Azzolina and Minister Bonetti, but there is still work to be done to implement measures to protect the rights of minors, our children and girls, our boys and girls. I am therefore pleased that a group of parliamentarians has launched a very commendable and beautiful listening initiative which aims to gather ideas and requests to assist the government's action in this field. In fact, it is true that isolation has produced the first thing the closure of schools and therefore the lack of important places of socialization, opportunities for confrontation and therefore of exchange, growth and creativity shared for our little ones, but it has also caused the increase or even the worsening of problematic situations within fragile families, in which violence of various types, even psychological, and of various degrees, is consumed, with the obvious repercussions that they have on the psychological and emotional health of our children who find themselves daily having to endure an emotional load that is already very heavy for an adult. So I am taking these few minutes to renew an invitation that I made publicly a few days ago, when, excited by the initiative of these parliamentarians (to which I hope to be able to add) and with the intention therefore to support this initiative, I decided to offer this invitation, precisely because I deeply share the spirit and purpose of wanting to have a dialogue with all the associations in the third sector and collect all the requests and proposals for the Government. My invitation is to find the space for a dedicated provision and, if not for a dedicated provision, for a section, in the coming section, entirely declined to the size of a child: a 'cura-bambini' with which we can put in place a whole series of initiatives aimed at guaranteeing in an ever more precise way the rights of our children and our girls, because it will be only with a provision or a section tailored to the child that we will take care of our future. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u65	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u66	Mr President, my fellow Senators, the Government present, before I begin my speech, as many colleagues have done before me in this House, I would like to address a moving thought to all the victims of the pandemic and their family members, to those who are still in intensive care, to those who are trying to fight thanks to the unparalleled work of the many health professionals, all understood, who, more than once, have refused the call of heroes, reminding the country that it is a mission for them. We also remember those who unfortunately died, and there were many, and who returned from retirement to make their contribution. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We also remember all the health professions, along with volunteering and those who cleaned in those places where it was unfortunately infected. We must bear in mind that what we are experiencing is an extraordinary occurrence with which we had never had any consolation. What we are facing is the worst post-war contingency. In February we seemed the only European country to be affected, then the World Health Organization (WHO) declared the pandemic. Today, April 8th, we don't even know when the emergency will be completely resolved. All we know is that it will have very serious consequences, which are incalculable to date. In the meantime, the people are asking and asking. In the meantime, trust and hope must be rebuilt because waiting, the impossibility of planning is exhausting. Health and economics are at this juncture indissolubly linked; so are science and politics, as someone said before me. For economic recovery, it is essential to stop the virus. This is the first of our priorities. The experts have explained this to us in every way. Magic wands aren't there because they're all good at critics, but then you have to make decisions. Alternative solutions are not there, the alternative is unique: do not allow the virus to spread further in order not to lose a generation of elderly people, to secure thousands of workers and not to collapse the health system. This is why the problems today not only do not serve, but they evoke bad scenarios. We are talking about life and death, a land on which consensus should not be played, but on which common sense should be manifested. Our country was shaken deep in the guts, no one could imagine such scenarios. The Government has acted in a timely manner from the outset; it must be said with honesty and it must be recognized. Today Italy is a model for the other European countries - and not only - that have implemented our own measures recognizing its validity, even the sceptics have had to rethink. However, the situation is new for everyone, also for our Government, who faced the emergency Covid-19 was forced to make decisions impacting on the lives of all citizens; freedom, which we lack, has been taken away precisely because it is a necessity. There is no area that has not been touched; health, school, businesses, the freedom of all of us. Yet every measure has taken into account, on the one hand, the primary need to stem the virus, on the other hand, to lay the foundations for a recovery, which must be there. The so-called decree cures Italy, which we are preparing today to examine, on which trust will be placed, is not the last measure - because a measure is already coming in April - to give economic support to families, workers and businesses. First, the aim is to finance and strengthen the National Health Service; it is not by chance defined as care Italy. Civil Protection and other public subjects - including the Forces of Order - are working in these weeks and are at the forefront to counter the emergency. The second objective is to support employment and workers through the extension of special measures on social shock absorbers throughout the country and in favour of all workers, for the protection of labour, by providing special rules on income support. Our National Health Service has confirmed good quality and potential despite the fact that thousands of experienced doctors and nurses have recently been allowed to retire without providing for their replacement in advance. The number of beds per inhabitants has been revised downwards over the years. Health has long been the subject of spending reductions and this has led to negative consequences on the ability to treat, while today this is the sector that holds the weight of the pandemic. This must make us think. We must therefore all get to work - and indeed the work that has been done by the Commission - in order to develop in good time, quickly, a strategy that combines emergency health and economic recovery, having clearly a public health vision that focuses on a real strengthening of territorial assistance, on home care that in this emergency, where used, have proved successful. This is required by the growing ageing of our population and by the increase in chronic diseases, typical of the population groups that have been most affected by the Covid-19. We must make it clear that the health system cannot be strengthened unless the dilemma of the lack of uniformity of care and services in the Italian regions is brought to an end. Public health needs a unified approach that guarantees citizens the same right to care throughout the national territory; therefore, there is a need for thought so that the same mistakes are not repeated again. The pandemic showed that the regions themselves could not have done much and that national coordination was decisive in managing the emergency. So perhaps a reflection on Title V will also be to be done. The National Health System must no longer be the ATM of austerity, but if anything it must be the driving force behind the reconstruction of the productive sectors. However, another important issue is that of the health professions to be protected, to be made more and more appropriate, and therefore also that of medical training. I also repeat that there must be more resources for the specialization grants of our trainers, because we cannot afford to remain without specialization. This is another important fact. Moreover, the most important thing is to adequately pay back the health care staff we are saying today to be at the forefront. These are all fundamental requirements, because we must maintain the well-being of our people. Another theme dear to me in the last glimpse of time - I must say - is that of gender medicine, which also in this case holds in itself the difference between sex and gender. The pandemic highlighted the fact that women are less affected by the virus, they resist better. The time has come to take this topic seriously and to research it, because here too there are differences in the personalization of care and it is a topic that needs to be addressed. I would like to conclude with one comment: I hope that what is happening to us will really give us the opportunity to improve in every way. We've got a lot to do. [[Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists and the Group of the European ……]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u67	Senator Valente is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u68	Mr President, I come from a point of view which Senator Boldrini has finally taken up: we will certainly not be equal to ourselves after this emergency, of course much will depend on us, on how we will read this phase, on what considerations will mature within the scientific community, on how we will learn to dialogue more and better with that community, on how we will enhance those knowledge and skills. Much will depend on the policy, on the choices he will make in phase 2, on reconstruction, with which we will have to deal in a few days' time. However, there are some truths that at this moment this emergency requires us to read: while no one saves himself (it is a banality, but it is a bitter truth) and then that no one is sheltered from this emergency. No one is, according to his own position, social status, wealth. There is, however, someone who risks paying a higher price within this emergency, as we have said several times: they are the fragile, the weakest, but I add even the most exposed, the most vulnerable to them. Those who know me and know my culture know that I would never speak of women as a fragile subject, also because within this emergency they are demonstrating exactly the opposite, but they are certainly the most exposed, fatigued and vulnerable subjects. And they are also subjects that, perhaps in this very emergency, risk once again, as in all crises, paying one of the highest prices. They're proving resilient. The data tell us that two thirds of women continue to work also because women have always been engaged in areas related to health, care and personal services, but also banking and insurance services. We also think about teachers, the world of school, of knowledge. These are necessary, indispensable and strategic services that continue to function within this emergency. Those same women are today asked much more: they are asked to stay at home and, therefore, first of all, to take on a job that continues to weigh substantially on their shoulders (domestic work, care and taking care of our children). The vast majority of mothers deal with school learning in new technological ways, and perhaps our children teach us more often than they do. However, with respect to this work we feel that we must support them, as we can and can, alongside the teachers, in the vast majority of women, who continue to do this work at this stage. I would like to thank these women first of all, because they are once again putting it all in their hands. And I also believe that the data that were recalled about the fact that they are resisting this virus more (at least as it seems) at this stage will probably require a reflection in the construction of a second phase - that of reconstruction - to start basically also from them for many reasons, but also for this. There is one thing that I would like to draw the attention of this Parliament to, and then make some comments on the measure and also on the long night that the Commission has seen engaged, as well as on the results of the parliamentary work, which I believe has shown to be responsible, but at the same time useful, profitable and valuable and has not, as was right and proper, shunned its task and function. Listening to the scientific community, we chose to ask citizens to stay at home and give up their freedom. This means, basically, securing them: the social distance is achieved mainly by staying at home. For many this has therefore meant leaving the danger outside the door: danger of getting sick, suffering and sometimes - I would say too many - dying. Yet for many women in this country to stay at home means instead to face another danger: the violence that, as all the data tell us, is consumed in the vast majority of times just inside the domestic walls that should of course be a place of protection, protection and security. Inside those domestic walls we force everyone today to stay there, including those women within them who have encountered violence, abuse, abuse, oppression and, at times, death in these months and years. As a committee of inquiry into feminicide we had to raise the problem of what it meant for these women and we did it also because you are so solicited by another "piece" - let me use this term perhaps a little'strong' - of heroines of this country, which are the workers who work in many of our anti-violence centers and our shelter houses, who have given us an alarm in the first few days telling us: beware, they no longer call us the women who were in contact with us and we believe that this happened not because they suddenly interrupted the circuit of violence, but because they are not in the condition and freedom to make a phone call and ask for help, attention. And then, thanks also to a prompt intervention and the response of Minister Bonetti and the whole Government, we re-launched 1522 and, together with the Forces of Order, applications that allow women to ask for help. And then phase two came: the women came back to ask for help, but we found ourselves facing the fact that many of them risk not being able to be accepted (some because they did not have the immediate opportunity to deliver a negative swab, someone else because they needed to pass quarantine, others because in doubt of a possible contamination). Many workers risked on their skin when they could, but when it came to questioning the safety of other women in our shelter homes they had to stop and say: one moment, what do we do? Hence the need to give a prompt and immediate response. That is why I really want to thank all the government that has given an important response this night to the requests made by the Commission of Inquiry into Femicide: that is, a first important response to these centres that have asked us for help and all these women to be able to welcome them safely. It is an important figure for us, that of 3 million euros, which is added to what Minister Bonetti will be able to raise in his availability, which must be destined to shelter houses, in order to try to increase the structures available and dedicated to the reception of people who may be at risk of viruses, at risk of infection, and that, therefore, must be welcomed in other structures. They had already done so, in agreement, the ministers Bonetti and Lamorgese, telling the prefectures to make available and find other structures on the territory, but then they had to be managed and hence the resources that we have asked for. But as a committee of inquiry we have tried to do something more. We tried to draw up a document that basically said what the priorities were to deal with this drama in the drama. Anyone who knows me knows I never call violence against women an emergency. So, I'm having a hard time saying emergency in the emergency. Perhaps in this case it would be the right word, but I say, at least, drama in the drama. We must give an answer to those women, whom we have found indicating a number of priorities. I really want to point out that we have done so in agreement and in absolute transversality. Among the many measures mentioned - I do not want to point them all out - I quote one which was the subject of positive approval by the Budget Commission tonight. For this reason, I would like to thank Minister Bonafede, who has also expressed his willingness to change an opinion in the course of his work. We have asked that the measure of the removal of man from the family home be the main road, especially in these cases. It is a possible path always and, it is all the more so right now. I repeat: it is all the more so right now. He's the man who needs to get away from the house. We said a step away from the family home because it is the most secure measure for the woman. Only in a residual way, therefore, is the woman who has to leave that house. Let us remember, however, that leaving the woman at home means securing even minors in that house. It means giving more protection to women and children. So many of these measures - I mean - we have been able to adopt because there has been the unanimous contribution of all political forces, and that is something to be emphasized. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and Senator Papatheu Groups]] All political forces have signed a document. All political forces unanimously supported the amendments. I am honored, even as a senator of the Democratic Party, to chair the Commission on Femicide, but I cannot but thank the House of Deputies, from which we came in support of our initiative with the parliamentary intergroup for women. This - in my opinion - is an important signal. I conclude by saying that women have demonstrated and developed, in recent years, an autonomous thought on how the country grows, develops and mature styles of life, behavior and consumption. Let us draw on this knowledge now that we are called to think about reconstruction. Now that the models we have experienced so far show all their limitations, let's draw on the knowledge of women. It will be a gift that we give not to women, but to the country that - as you have shown in recent weeks - perhaps really deserves it. [[Applause from the PD, M5S, IV-PSI and Senator Papatheu Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u69	Senator Mallegni is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u70	Mr President, I speak without a mask, because I am at a sufficient social distance from all my colleagues and, therefore, I do not create harm to anyone or anyone who creates it to me. Frankly, speaking on this subject today, not wanting to take anything away from my colleague, Mr Misiani, but without the presence of the Ministers and the President of the Council, it seems to me an extremely strange fact. Compared to a measure that has been announced as a cure for Italy, I do not find before us even the most responsible of the action of Government frankly I find it totally disrespectful towards Parliament and the citizens whom we try to represent. The other question is that, after a few days and a night spent in the Commission, I frankly strengthened my conviction that among the benches of the Government - I repeat, without anyone being offended - I would have preferred to have a tobacconist, a craftsman, a small entrepreneur, because they probably would have better understood the proposals that Forza Italia made and the proposals, the real, real, concrete ones, that come from the people who until four weeks ago worked and posed the problem of the end of the month, of the F24 model, to pay their employees and collaborators. If, on the one hand, we have confined our families to our homes, we have locked ourselves in the house, because health reasons obviously prevailed over an economic reason; on the other hand, we expected both issues to be dealt with at the same time. On the previous occasion we voted firmly in favour, like Forza Italia, of the proposed measure; we expected that at this stage there would be the measure that would open the stock exchanges of the country and the government to meet the needs of the families: but nothing this time too. Now we are told that there will be another decree-law; it has been explained that a liquidity decree will be issued, which instead is a debt decree, which will put families and businesses, from small to large enterprises, in the great difficulty of a further debt. Those who do not know these things mean that they have never lived them. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] We are tired of facing people who, instead of living things, told them and even bad. That is the reality. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] People who have never felt on the skin the burns of real and concrete life continue to have responsibility. That is the reality. If we do a calculation here of people who have this responsibility, there are few, very few, and every time they tell a life that is not theirs, something they have seen others do but have never lived on their own skin. That's it. We have committed ourselves, in any case; we have gone to the Commission; we have put forward proposals that seem to us to be practical; we have proposed that vouchers for tourism and agriculture be re-introduced, for all those sectors that need to be repartitioned; we have asked to suspend the decree of dignity, which blocks and casts the work, so as to give flexibility to the work; we have proposed that the IMU be suspended on buildings, businesses and capital goods: nothing. We have proposed to support tourism, which represents an important economy for this country: 13.2% of GDP, 232 billion euros in turnover, 3 and a half million people employed. The tourist chain, the activities operating in accommodation and extralberghiere facilities, the food and drink administration exercises, travel agencies, tour operators, the owners of bathing establishments, tourist guides and tour guides, bus and car hirers, drink distributors, artisans, art galleries: in short, a system that does not stop there, because plumbers, geometers, carpenters, painters, architects and professionals travel around that world. Tourism is the central economic system of a country like Italy. We thought that surely those people would be helped, that surely also this sector would be supported and, since we are curious people, we went to see what happened of the 256,000 questions, between the seasonal and the non seasonal, submitted to the INPS: well, we exceeded the famous figure of 173,000, that is the maximum limit, the ceiling that the INPS has given to give the money to our collaborators. I call this a cheating state. This is a cheating state and citizens are tired of being cheated. We also hoped that there would be a restart protocol. What are we gonna do tomorrow when we reopen? When are we gonna reopen? Why do we not allow companies that can afford to reopen, with all the precautions? The precautions you did not give them: the issue of masks is an odyssey that has affected everyone, from doctors, nurses, police, law enforcement in general, companies and small businesses. The people activated themselves, bought the masks - those same people of good will who made the donations - and saw them kidnapped by the Civil Protection, who would have to hand them over to the people who needed them. We must then set up reopening protocols. We must say that Italy is a safe country. We must say that our cities are safe. We have to say how many people can stay in a restaurant and how they will access it. And we must tell the world, who looks at us, that Italy will be a country that will open with security and first of all with the health guarantee, also to give an opportunity to more than 15 million people who will probably lose their jobs thanks to people who - like you, colleagues - have seen the work, but probably have never practiced it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u71	Senator Nisini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, today we are again here to give answers to the Italians, but - I am sorry to say - they are answers that most people will not like. We have been discussing for days in the various Commissions the proposals that we too, as a party, have brought to the attention of the Government and the majority, certain to represent the demands of citizens, entrepreneurs, professionals, artisans, trade associations, third sector and many others. After the many proclamations made by Prime Minister Conte, in the direct social and direct television on Saturday evening, we have deluded ourselves with an opening and a sharing with oppositions, with the desire to work together and to welcome our constructive proposals. However, this has not happened and we have achieved an endless series of nos. We have collected, for example, the requests for aid, made directly to the Government by the trade associations, by Assobibe and Unionplast, which requested a one-year suspension for the so discussed sugar tax and plastic tax, which will enter into force in July and October of this year. We proposed it with an amendment, but it was rejected. Take into account that 80 000 jobs are at risk for the sugar tax companies, but the amendments have been rejected. We have also tabled a number of amendments relating to the subject of social shock absorbers; we have called for more flexibility, less bureaucracy and a time extension of the integration fund, from nine to fifteen weeks, removing the 31 August limit, but considering the end of the emergency as a time limit. All these amendments have also been rejected. We have been concerned about voluntary associations, whose activities are closely linked to the covid-19 emergency. We simply asked for reimbursements for the sanitization of the means of rescue and for the purchase of masks, essential and indispensable, but the related amendment was also rejected and you also said no to this. We have called for support, through an amendment, for local broadcasters, who are on their knees at the moment, because, despite doubling their ratings, they have had a drastic drop in advertising, which is their primary source of livelihood, with reductions that have exceeded 80%, and already after a few weeks they are no longer able to bear the ordinary costs. The activity of the local broadcasters is important and of public interest and they have shown it in this period, in which they have proposed quality entertainment twenty-four hours a day, they have given correct information and news in real time, especially to that group of Italian citizens who do not use social media, to the elderly, for many of whom they represent the only form of company, considering that it is more than twenty days that - like all of us - are closed in the house. This amendment has also been rejected, although it has been tabled by all political forces. Everyone has tabled an amendment on the subject in the amendments file, which was then withdrawn by everyone except us; we have brought it to the vote, but it has been rejected. The same was true of the amendment concerning printing companies, newspapers and periodicals. We have tabled amendments in support of newsstands, which have also been rejected. And I'm sorry, because there's already a first victim. The "Corriere di Siena" (Corriere di Siena), a daily newspaper in my territory - I come from the Province of Siena - has suspended the activity since 6 April, leaving on forced holidays - alas - employees and journalists. I have tabled an urgent parliamentary question in this regard, because Siena is the first case, the beginning of an important problem: there is a risk that there will be no more pluralism and the newspapers will close because they have no support. The government was disinterested: it didn't think about broadcasters, it didn't think about publishing houses. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Cangini]] One thought, however, the government had it: it set up the commission against fake news; that, yes, it established it. The rest of the amendments were rejected. It's crazy. Is there little resources? So we need to rationalise, we need to give priorities. Another amendment that we tabled and failed was in favour of doctors, nurses and health workers. We asked for a tax on the salary, but - I repeat - the amendment was rejected. They are people we all call "angels" and "heroes," but angels and heroes are tired of patting on their shoulders and need real recognition. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Papatheu]] No more words. Sometimes it takes the word of comfort, it takes praise, but then it takes the facts. It's okay that there's not much money, but we need to rationalize, we need to find solutions. But also non-onerous solutions were rejected on principle. One amendment that was particularly close to my heart was the integration of the fund for blameless morosities. We asked for an integration of the fund and for the tenants of public housing to be able to draw from it. But do you realize that in Italy, even before the coronavirus, there is a big problem represented by the emergency housing? Do you know that the municipalities - they are city councilman to the housing policies of the Municipality of Arezzo - can no longer manage all people who are not in emergency housing? People can't pay and for the municipalities it will be an unsustainable situation. Unfortunately not everyone is lucky to have a Region that room 30 million euros for tenants of the popular houses, as did the Lombardy Region. I heard a laugh, but I pretend I didn't hear it. I am city council member of the housing policies within a Region, Tuscany, plaqued PD. Well, they arrived in the province of Arezzo 188,000 euros for a real estate heritage of public housing of 3,000 housing. We had carried out an amendment in support of amateur sports associations that use municipal properties, asking that they do not pay the fees to the municipalities until September. These associations hold the social fabric together, make aggregation and inclusion; they are essential activities for our children, but in September they will probably not be able to open. There is a very long list of "nos" that we have received, such as for the reduction of the dry coupon for owners who reduce the rent to their tenants by at least 30 percent or the suspension of the payment of utilities. Then we hear that this government by April 15 will help the self-employed and the unemployed. Many have not yet been able to submit the application because the platform does not work, it has big problems. Stop fooling the Italians! On April 15 nothing will come and they will all be in line in the municipalities asking for money and sustenance [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , because the anticipations you have made to the municipalities are only advances, they are nothing new, so they serve to solve problems that already existed. The municipalities are exhausted and they can't take it anymore. On one thing, however, the government has opened its eyes. It is a few hours the news that a decree has been signed with which they have established the closing of the ports. They finally proved us right, because they're not safe ports. So, what we've been saying for months -- and we've been through villains and racists -- you finally did. However, apart from the controversy, we will be resuming all our amendments, since in the next decree there will be the possibility, always in a constructive spirit. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Malan]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u73	Senator Mollame is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u74	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, it would be like the mediocre and scenography of a science fiction film, except that the invasion against humankind, not even Martian, is real and our loved ones fall into solitude, who have the immune defences tried by the years or weaker. Our cities are empty and ghostly. The metaphor of war has often been used, an analogy that is certainly fitting and acceptable: the difference is that today, in this world war, humanity is all on the same side, even if I fear there are those who have not understood it or pretend not to understand it. I believe that in the history of humanity there has never been a natural calamity of such a planetary magnitude, unpredictable and unimaginable until a couple of months ago. Over the centuries, diseases of the epidemic type were born and exhausted in local contexts; Today, due to globalisation, even viruses travel by air, transit through hubs and within a few hours reach all destinations on all five continents. It is up to us Italians to face the sad role of vanguard in Europe, first facing, as a country of the Western world and Parliamentary Republic, an unknown, terrible and unpredictable enemy. Many have done so and are doing so, risking and paying even with their lives: our doctors, our nurses and health workers all, who work in the trenches and in the front line. And it was done by our Government, which acted promptly, method, just weighting and balance, commensurate with the unknown interaction of this biological entity with mankind. He has done it with exceptional measures, in compliance with the constitutional dictation, and it has been done and is being done by all Italians, who are staying at home, who continue to work to ensure all the essential services. I am thinking of those employed in the distribution of foodstuffs, road hauliers, farms in the agricultural sector, agents of all the law enforcement agencies and workers of all the factories, who have not stopped. Paraphrasing the definitions of our private law, I would say that the Government has dealt with and is dealing primarily with natural persons, such as human beings, even weaker; no one has gone to deal with legal persons, that complex organized of people and tools that are our companies - small, medium and large - that constitute the social and economic structure of our country (with the immediate strengthening of the National Health Service and the economic support to the workers, the Cassa Integrazione, the contribution to the free professionals and the guarantees for the enterprises). All this has been done by our Government and is doing so by confronting ourselves with dignity and a straight back with the European institutions. It has already happened in history, in times of crisis or war events, that a dispute has arisen between the political system and the monetary and banking financial system. Planetary humanitarian reasons can and must push the two systems towards a common objective and today more than ever is the moment of solidarity. I don't want to be rhetorical, nor redundant, but, reminding us of our story, we are told of a phrase uttered one hundred and sixty years ago. In a much wider panorama - allow me - who knows that it is not the time today to say: Here we make Europe or die, in the sense of continuing that path that should lead us to a more authentic Europe of peoples. A very topical reference to the health issue must also be made to the substance of what I would call national solidarity: when dealing with a cyclone of this magnitude, we need compactness and unity. Let us try in the near future to reflect and review the vital issue of our health without differentiated regionalisms. I close by remembering what a doctor told me about ten days ago. In my town of origin, Partinico, to be exact, was equipped in forty-eight hours a Covid hospital and, while looking for masks, garrisons and protections, a doctor said to me, as representative of the institutions: Don't make us feel lonely. This is still our most important task today. We will succeed, we will overcome the unpredictable: there are still human lives to be saved and we will still prepare to support our companies. Let's roll up our sleeves, let's not wait for manna from heaven. To the sad primacy I mentioned, we are reacting promptly, with determination, common sense and solidarity, and first we will get out of it, doing our part and our work. Let us not forget that today so much lies in the hands of many operators of every level of the banking system. Here, let's watch carefully and try to be positive. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u75	Senator Saccone is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u76	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-Minister, today I would have difficulty in entering into the substance of such a complex and complex decree-law and then I thought of starting with a photograph. If we had a chance to take a picture of the country in these thirty days of pandemics, it would be merciless. The country comes out absolutely badly: it is a slow country, subjugated by bureaucracy; a country that has shown that the Palace is distant from the concrete needs of the daily newspaper of our people; a country - let me say, Mr. Deputy Minister - that has some representatives of the Government who have spent more time in talks than sitting with their cabinet to outline the measures useful to the Italian people. At this fair of about - let me say again - some scientists also joined, who had started with statements and then denied them a minute later, perhaps via Twitter or Facebook. In this mincer of vanity, unfortunately, the ruling class of the country did not demonstrate, at least initially, that it was up to the challenge. Forza Italia is not the party of the "it wants much more." It consists of people aware of the difficulties facing the Government. Moreover, if this photograph could also be extended to the European Union, we could say that the European Union is also showing its total inadequacy. The European Union was born in truth for the far-sightedness of the founding fathers on two major pillars: on the one hand, to unite fears in order to build a hope that was the European Union and thus to break down mistrust, despite the rubble; on the other, Mr Deputy Minister, it is called solidarity and here the appeal is to the German people. At the end of the 1980s, the European Union, despite the scepticism of so many European leaders, gave way to solidarity by allowing Helmut Kohl to reunite his Germany. That was an act of foresight - in my view - despite Germany's attitude of the last few days. The appeal I then make to the German people is to show that this was a wise and not wrong choice. We come to this blessed decree-law called cure Italy, Mr. Undersecretary. We would have liked more direct, more immediate measures; we would have liked that money which you are approving today to be allocated directly to the current accounts of our fellow citizens. Spain is doing it; France is doing it. We would have liked that money to go directly to companies. One code was enough. Today, a Spanish entrepreneur got a code and goes to the bank with that and gets the funds. You, on the other hand, with roboating ads are creating illusion. If you had made two calls - not so many more - to the bank directors, you would have known that they were borne by many entrepreneurs who have already come to them, and this will create disillusionment. Be careful, because anger can turn into a social uprising, Mr. Undersecretary. Be careful! I am very frank that you have chosen another route, the famous INPS click-day. Just think for a moment, you representing the PD, if inverted parts had happened what happened to the INPS with the 5 Stars in opposition. They would have barricaded themselves on the roof of the INPS building; they would have denounced the inability and inadequacy of that president, perhaps even citing the family, and - why not? - some executives. Here, I hope this is a warning for what they have done in recent years, because that should make them aware that some battles were legitimate and fair, but others were exclusively propaganda. Today, who have been in government for two years now, they are direct witnesses of how complex it is to govern a people of 60 million inhabitants. We will not go to the rooftops, even if that day we did not make a good figure, as Italians, not as parliamentarians of the center-right or of Forza Italia-UDC. In conclusion, Mr President, in this decree-law we would have liked genuine support for equal schools; you have forgotten that. Once again they are penalized: almost a million families will have enormous difficulties in paying the fees, and there is almost an ideological short-sightedness in understanding that the State cannot do everything by itself; it needs the contribution in a subsidiary way. You have chosen a shortcut: that of trust, totally blocking the doors to the contribution of the opposition, which in this period of time has proved to be seriously available. I say this to both you and your friends who are rooting against the European Union, because those who root against the European Union are making a huge mistake, since families and companies will be the first to pay. We must hope that an agreement will be reached in that international assembly in the coming days. You have chosen a shortcut but, despite this, the opposition will count and will continue to maintain a responsible attitude because we always support Italy and in any case. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u77	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u78	Mr President, we, the Brothers of Italy, will vote against this decree-law. We would not have wanted to do that, it was a choice taken not lightly, because we wanted to give a different signal to the country. We would have liked to vote for this measure together with the majority, in the awareness that the country needs unity and responsibility, to give a signal to those in the front line: to doctors, nurses, those suffering from the disease and those suffering, for the consequences of the disease, the economic paralysis of the country. We have tried everything we can: we have put forward proposals in the newspapers and in the communication; we have drawn up amendments and agendas; we have taken part in all the tables at which we were asked to participate constructively, trying to make our contribution to improving the measure. And then at a certain point the important message of the Head of State, who invited everyone to institutional collaboration, also arrived. That message has comforted us in our choice and we have continued our collaboration. We at the Brothers of Italy have also come to withdraw most of the amendments, leaving only the most substantial, about twenty, to be examined on the substance. The majority and the government have closed the doors to every collaboration; they have rejected all the proposals without even examining them. They preferred to limit their majority competences in an emergency and extraordinary situation and face the war - because this is the case - as an ordinary administration, with the selfishness of bureaucrats, talking in these same days about how to divide appointments, or even drawing up a decree, what has been announced to all television channels, without even mentioning it in presenting it and publishing it in the Official Journal, arguing about the competences of the SACE and even creating new commissions that should coordinate the activity with the Carthusian balance to include in the commission the ministerial representative of one of the four parties of the Government. Even in his announcement, Prime Minister Conte was very careful to point out that 200 billion (ghost) are for export, i.e. administered by the 5 Stars and Di Maio, and 200 billion, half, are for internal measures under the jurisdiction of the Economy. He was careful to say "half a head" and "ce" we divide these billion ghosts, because unfortunately "ghost" are. This measure, which was born under other auspices - and we voted on the budgetary deviation - is born with the budgetary deviation and speaks of 25 billion, of which 20 billion are budgetary deviations. The 400 billion is announced in a year. What are we talking about? For 25 billion, is budgetary deviation necessary, while for 400 billion (200 for exports and 200 for internal growth) nothing? It's just debt. You have encouraged citizens to do more debt and we have tried to make you understand that it is not the time to further indebt families and businesses, if even in Europe the alarm is launched on the risk that other families and other businesses will end up screwing into debt and see their debt declared unquenchable credit, NPL. Already 1.4 million Italian subjects are in the hands of international usurers, because they have had their debt deteriorated, declared NPL and often sold by banks to international subjects who use banking stalking to rival the most unfortunate. In this measure we asked to address this issue, bringing within it a bill that is already under discussion in the Senate Finance Commission and on which there is broad consensus, in order to allow this million and more of subjects, families and entrepreneurs, to redeem their deteriorated debt with a sort of sanatoria, that puts them in a position to return to Bonis and therefore to resume working. No, you have done worse, you have rejected this insertion and this proposal and, at the same time, you have created a mechanism to further indebt the Italians, creating another vortex of debt and then of insolvency that will lead other families and other businesses to collapse. Well we have tried, but if you do not change the register and you do not understand that you have to go from the selfishness of the majority, from the selfishness of the part and of the bureaucrats, to the generosity of the daring who leave at war without wondering what the card of the previous party was, if you do not take that step and turn the page, we will not be able to face these days and the following months. The very fact that this debate is taking place while the Government still divides itself on the so-called liquidity decree, which has yet to be issued, is divided in Europe and fails to make a decision on such a fundamental subject demonstrates amply that a climate of national collaboration and respect for roles is absolutely necessary in this country. We do not ask you to change our role; we want to remain in opposition to this Government, but we are not in opposition to our country. From the opposition we ask to collaborate with the Government to the protagonism, possibly national, necessary to face the storms that await us in Europe and overcome the selfishness of European bureaucrats and above all the selfishness of some European countries. Well that is absolutely necessary and we will continue in the wake that we have undertaken. There is one aspect that convinces us that it is not present in the decree-law at our examination, but in what you are drafting, and that is what we suggested a month ago, on March 4, when we presented a proposal in a bill to ask for the extension of golden power to banks and insurances, and to other sensitive subjects and sectors of the European Union, protecting us not only from predatory colonization taking place from other continents, but also from predatory colonization taking place within Europe. One month of declarations, proposals and amendments; after one month you did - or at least announced to do so - in the so-called liquidity decree to be published. Well, we wouldn't want to be in the same situation. We have said that agriculture is the most at risk today. We have proposed reasonable measures and you have responded with an ideological barrier. We asked that vouchers, which are absolutely essential in this sector, be reintroduced, all the more so this season when 370,000 foreign workers will not come in Italy because their countries obviously prevent them: they cannot be transferred. We asked for vouchers to be reintroduced and citizens' income recipients encouraged. You have not even read the amendment, which is not at all punitive for citizens' income recipients because it requires them to be encouraged to accept the proposal through the fact that then the citizenship income is prolonged and that for those months of the working season a regular contract is applied, encouraging employers because they could take them - and therefore have a real relief - the bonus resulting from that parenthesis of citizenship income. It is not a scandal to go to work in the fields. Who of our generation hasn't? Who of our generation has not worked in the fields? My father, who was a citrus entrepreneur, taught me and my brothers the hard work because at the age of nine to ten he took us to the warehouse every summer - that's what he was called - to work among the workers. At seven, eight or nine years old, like my other brothers, I woke up at 5:30 in the morning to be at 6:00 in the warehouse, along with the workers. I was the only one obviously without an employment contract; the others were all regular. When the work inspector arrived, my father told us "fake play" because we obviously did not have a contract: for us the work was only a means to understand how to face life; perhaps few of you have done it, so you do not understand how the Italians in these days are forced to face the labors of this "war" not having on their side a Government that understands them to the full. We will not give way to national proposal and collaboration; sooner or later we will win your deafness. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u79	Senator Vono is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u80	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, there has been a great deal of talk these days and hours about government interventions, judging them in some cases right, in others wrong, in others still insufficient and incomplete. However, I believe that never before has the instrument of urgent decree been used precisely for the purpose for which it is provided by our Constitution, which precisely empowers the Government, in extraordinary cases of necessity and urgency, to assume immediately effective measures under its responsibility. It is obvious that the urgent decree accentuates the Commission's political responsibility to Parliament, but this does not exempt Parliament from its important responsibilities and the exercise of its functions. Just at such a delicate time and despite the rather instrumental polemics, I believe that this Parliament, representative of popular sovereignty, has never stopped, even for a moment, thinking about solutions and working daily with self-denial for the country. The fact that the Government acted with the urgent decree has never prevented parliamentary work. On the contrary, it is a pity that those who, by hindering the collaboration in the approval of the norms and amendments in favour of Italians (with all the criticalities that can certainly exist) in the rapid times demanded precisely by the emergency situation, force us to resort to a vote of confidence, abhorring in fact those same hypothesis of collaboration so much flaunted. I would also remind myself that the vote of confidence is, albeit exceptionally, part of our democratic rules. Even without going into the matter for questions of time, let's see what are the themes of the decree-law care Italy; themes and measures so opposed by oppositions, but without a shadow of doubt necessary and important, which involve in various ways every sector affected by the crisis. The measure intervenes in the matter of health with norms aimed at strengthening the human and instrumental resources of the National Health Service, and in fiscal matter, extending the numerous measures of facilitation to the whole national territory, introducing additional norms aimed at protecting the workers and to safeguard the productive system; that same production system that Italy Viva supports for a long time must necessarily share, albeit with the due caution and the indispensable graduality. The measure also strengthens and extends the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, both through temporary and structural interventions, and introduces special rules on social shock absorbers and measures to meet the needs of families. For this reason I also recall the introduction of the Charter of the Family, proposed by us and extended to all municipalities for discounts and facilities. It is also expected that a further EUR 3 million will be spent on shelters that receive women who are victims of violence and their children, at such a dramatic time when, as President Valente said earlier, many women are forced to live with their torturer. The measure under discussion also favours measures to strengthen infrastructure and in this respect I hope that EUR 3 billion will soon be released which remain in the state's coffers, so we hope that there will be work for businesses and all operators in the sector. In the field of communication, the Italian decree-law ensures the functioning of the networks and the operation and continuity of the services necessary to enhance and maintain uninterrupted access to emergency services; it supports Italian exports and the internationalization of the national economic system in the agri-food system; it proposes interventions aimed at supporting distance teaching during this period of suspension of school activity. These are all measures which we have worked on in a continuous and synergistic way, proposing - every political force - improvements to the sole aim of bringing all categories, all areas of activity within it. I am not just referring to business activities, which, in my opinion, are the driving force behind our economy, but to the particular attention paid to the social sector and families. For what we have not yet managed to do we have proposed agendas that commit the government and continue to work. I would therefore like to thank my colleagues in the Budget Committee, who have defined the work not without difficulties and, although everything is perfect, I believe that on these occasions we can understand who works for Italy and who, instead, to the detriment of the Italians, persists with a controversy resulting from the most bizarre political slashing. That is why I firmly believe, Mr President, that the measures introduced are absolutely valid and necessary to allow an orderly and effective overcoming of this critical phase and a progressive economic and social recovery throughout the country. Finally, I address all Italian citizens. I embrace virtually the families of the victims and I ask everyone to have some patience still respecting the rules and to have confidence because the institutions are there. We're here and we're gonna make it together. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u81	He's enlisted to speak Senator Moles. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u82	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sfafe Secretary, we are speaking in general debate on the so-called Italian cure measure, a name that is so high-sounding and pompous, which was once said to be a wide-ranging programme. Unfortunately, the government calls for confidence on this measure. I read the statements made by President Conte, who said this morning: "No to fences, politics must set an example, and that there is a constant confrontation between the Government and the oppositions." At this point, I do not know what to say except, with calmness but also really much bitterness, that in reality it would have been much more respectful for the country and especially for all the categories that are at the forefront, that fight against the virus and that are carrying out the country, if this measure had been approved - not to chat or in words - with the unanimous vote of all. It would have been nice to see tomorrow the Senate unanimously approve the measure cure Italy, this yes would have been symbolically a good example of national unity. Dear Undersecretary, I greatly appreciated the work you have done all these days. That is precisely what we have been working on for days and days in order to be able to vote together on this measure, but in fact we are not allowed to do so, despite everything that has happened in these days. Mr Quagliariello first asked if the government wanted to do it alone. The Government continues to do so alone; unity and responsibility are merely appearances. Forza Italia and the whole centre-right, without any obstructionist spirit - we have shown - have tried to propose a series of solutions, from school to agriculture, from families to workers and businesses. There were hours and hours of video conferencing. In the face of all this, the government has made no commitment. We are told that the resources for this decree-law have been spent, we will go to reason on the next but we do not know when and what resources there will be. All wasting time? What good is it then to be here today to discuss and intervene? As a testimony - now only such - of this famous national unity? We have made a number of proposals. As you know, Mr Undersecretary, we have withdrawn a great many amendments, but those on which we have tried to continue working with you have all been rejected. Many have been reminded of the issue of the denseness of out-of-office students and our proposal to use citizenship income recipients for the emergency. This is not scandalous; everyone has to make their own contribution. I also recall the proposal to increase the salary of doctors, nurses and all health workers and, above all, our amendment on the temporary re-introduction of vouchers for an emergency period, which would give everyone a breath of oxygen: agriculture, crafts, personal services and traders. It was a total closure that I consider unjustified. I wonder what all these hours and hours of opposition meetings were for. Nobody saw the April decree. You even told us that you could not accept some of our proposals because you were ideologically opposed. But what does "ideologically" mean? You have the duty, together with us, to do the good of the country, not ideological wars. It's not national cohesion! That's enough, though. Enough with this regime propaganda. The President-in-Office of the Council, who invades and pervades information with his "sermons," has done enough. The other day, President Conte made the Italians believe that he was giving money to the municipalities, and it wasn't, because it was just an advance. He lied to businessmen, because he told them that he was giving 400 billion euros, while it is just a loan, among other things with interest. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] This is incitement to illusion. Mr President, citizens and businesses do not deserve this. Citizens and businesses now need money and certainty, immediate non-refundable compensation and economic support to move forward. How do we start with phase 2, if phase 1 is not finished yet and if, when phase 2 begins, maybe the country will be finished? I remind this government that the more it demands trust, the more it does not deserve a government to trust it. I conclude by quoting Cardinal Suenens: "Whoever lights a light in the dark expects mosquitoes." We tried to make a contribution. We tried to improve the measure with you. We lit the light on the darkness of many parts of this provision but we received only mosquitoes. Mr President, Government, good luck to all Italians! [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u83	He's enlisted to speak Senator Mirabelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u84	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Misiani, I simply say a few things. The first is that this is an important decree-law, very important. Perhaps one of the most important ones examined in this House. I say this with knowledge of the cause, because we are faced with a new, dramatic, very serious phase and we are taking on responsibilities; the Government has assumed responsibilities. It is an important decree for the size, because here I have heard a very interesting debate that denies a given, the fact that we put 25 billion euros at the disposal of the families, businesses and health care of this country; 25 billion: a figure greater than that we discussed in the financial law a few months ago. But it is also an important decree because it introduces the first necessary measures to deal with an emergency that has changed, and will change, our lives and our relationships. This measure begins to face the economic and social crisis, which the pandemic is already producing all over the world, not only in Italy, but is also trying to equip the country best to cope with the health crisis. I believe, however, that the most important thing is that, with the measure that we will vote on tomorrow, we make choices that indicate a path, a strategy, at least the priorities for the country, those that we consider to be such. The main figure of this decree is to protect people, work and businesses; this choice is, must and must be the one that guides all decisions of politics and government. Protecting people; giving quick and concrete answers to the needs of those in this emergency who are certainly losing income and already sees their living conditions worsen today. That is the priority. Today it is necessary for Italians to know that they are not alone in the face of difficulties and crisis. The institutions, the government, each of us has a duty not to leave anyone alone. This duty cannot be a slogan, but it must be translated into interventions and funding that will soon help those in need. The credibility of the institutions is at stake. In addition to a major social and economic issue, it is a question of the health of our democracy. The decree-law in question is the first right step in this direction: do not leave anyone alone; I think that with the next decree you can and should continue on this path. I insist: the priority is to protect people and, together, defend work and support businesses, as the decree-law launched the other day does. I have heard extravagant things; let me say that if in 2008 someone had thought to finance the loans paid to companies guaranteeing 400 billion euros perhaps the history of this country would have been different. We're doing it today. [[Applause from the PD Group]] We're doing this with an extraordinary liquidity injection. Protecting and not leaving people alone means supporting income, as does this decree-law, and ensuring services; but not only. I want to insist on three issues, on which important agendas have been approved, which in the next decree-law will have to be understood and which are relevant to this need. Firstly, the issue of the house, on which the measure under consideration already contains important provisions, such as the extension of the Gasparrini fund, to prevent people who cannot afford to pay the mortgage from losing the house, and the blockade of evictions. We are faced with a serious risk, that is, that many families, who are losing or seeing their income questioned, are no longer able to pay the rent. It is then a question of significantly refinanceing with the next decree-laws the funds that support rents, even for those who are dying without having to blame. It is a matter of giving support to the property, in order to avoid evictions; in short, guaranteeing the house: that this crisis does not lead many families to lose their home. We must also ensure that this money arrives quickly, perhaps directly to the municipalities, without going through the bureaucracy of the regions. The second issue concerns local authorities. I think it is clear to everyone that, under the conditions under which we are, the budgets of local authorities are strongly under discussion. My municipality loses an avalanche of revenue on which the budget was built: there is no more money of the profits of the participants (the SEA, as everyone knows, manages the Milanese airports, which have not worked for a long time); there are no more residence taxes; there are no local transport tickets, which continues to work. We must enable the municipalities to continue providing services to the citizens and we can do so with measures that have already been taken. I think it is important that we have allowed loans to be re-discussed with the Cassa Depositi e Prestiti, because they can objectively help the municipalities to adjust their budgets; but that is not enough. Above all - I mean - it is not enough for the municipalities of the most acute crisis area. My region, a piece of Emilia-Romagna and a piece of Veneto have been strongly affected areas. I believe that those municipalities, which are an important heart for the country's economy, must be given special support. Here again, the fact that an agenda was voted on yesterday in the Commission is an important fact. Let us come to the third question. I have often heard many people say today that we must thank the health workers, the people who are "on the front" and those who are sacrificing themselves the most. Well, then I want to make it clear. Those in the front line may also be forced to make difficult choices, for the common good of all. Those people, who are at the front, must be protected, and that was the meaning of our amendment, that is the meaning of the agenda, that requires this problem to be addressed and that the Government and the parliamentary groups should address it. We must protect those who are at the forefront, not those who have political responsibilities. Those who have political responsibilities and have made wrong choices, who have made more permeable structures and territories, will certainly have to respond and we will work to do so. The issue, however, is not that, but it is to protect the people, who have suffered the aggression of the crisis and who have made themselves available, even risking their own. Those people must be protected and I insist: we do not do it today, but we will have to do it soon. Mr President, I should like to end by saying that we agree with and agree with the measures contained in the previous decree, which was transferred to this measure. At a very difficult stage such as this, we have ensured the best functioning of the essential and urgent services of justice, protecting operators and not undermining the rights of anyone. As the Minister knows, we would have liked to change the rules on prisons further, in order to reduce overpopulation and also allow in prison the distance needed to prevent the spread of the virus. We have improved the text a little, extending the possibility of granting the license until 30 June to all prisoners enjoying semi-freedom and improving the decree on the application of bracelets. However, since it is a lie to say that there is a "free all," it remains our concern that the choice of house arrests with bracelets implies that these devices are insufficient and that the activation times are too long to reduce the number of institutionalized people, as we should, to better safeguard the health of prisoners, but also of agents and operators. On this in the next few days we will check whether the provision on house detention will work and whether its effects will be sufficient to secure the prisons from the virus and, if not, we will ask for other interventions to assume to the full a duty and responsibility that we all have together: to ensure the health of the people who are imprisoned. Come on, we'll make it! [[Applause from the PD Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u85	He's enlisted to speak Senator Barbaro. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not take much time away from your attention and I will try to be essential. This is not the time for sophism, but we must absolutely try to give answers to the country: it is the time to assume responsibility. As a League, but I can easily extend the reasoning to my colleagues in the center-right, we were conscientious, we did not carry out any kind of obstructive maneuvering, and we were responsible. I believe that this should be acknowledged. On the other hand, there is another great responsibility, which lies with the majority of our colleagues, not only that they did not share the measure, but that they even armored it with confidence. Today we are here, powerless, to give contributions on the substance of the measure that we have discussed far and wide in the Commission, as we have also done in this House today. Mrs Nisini was very good at recalling the vast majority of the articles on which we have been discussing and on which the League has tabled amendments. However, I think it is pointless to go now to sum up everything that has been said, partly because it would take us time and take us nowhere. I think there's only one way to sum it up. The only idea that comes to mind is that, compared to all the critical issues that we have highlighted in the measure, to date we have only one certainty: in the pockets of Italian citizens not even one euro has entered. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] To this I add another consideration. For a month our lives have been conditioned by the endemic evil of this country, the bureaucracy that we should eradicate. I must also say to some of my colleagues in the majority who have spoken on this subject: I am very pleased about that, because what we have seen this month is truly a horror film. We have been overwhelmed by dozens of measures; citizens and businesses have been confused by trying to guide themselves in the myriad of measures that have been issued, with the sole result of creating confusion. From this point of view, I would like to reiterate that the situation has also been aggravated by the government's inability to curb bureaucracy. Having exhausted this necessary premise, I would like to dwell, using the time remaining at my disposal, on two subjects that are particularly close to my heart. The first argument does not necessarily have to reappear in the dynamics of sectoral aspects because it makes explicit reference to the emerging situation that is before everyone's eyes and that we are living. In this regard there was in fact a great contribution of the third sector, of volunteering, of associations: the whole world of non-profit has been essential in this emergent phase of our country. Well, what was the response of the measure? One article spoke of the dynamics of the third sector; be careful, it is an article that has no expense coverage, because it mainly refers to the possibility of having all the entities in the third sector perform online assemblies. Therefore, a dignity trampled on, and we are talking about great organizations that are before everyone's eyes at this time: I am talking about civil protection, the Italian Red Cross, Caritas; I am talking only about the most famous and I am sorry that I do not have the time to mention all the other bodies that have had the opportunity, and especially the ability, to help our people at this time. I repeat, dignity trampled on: only one article in the Italian care measure for the third sector. Climb! Our associations have been trampled on, although it is evident that the work they are putting up with in really difficult situations. Finally, I would like to focus on another sector of the world of non-profit, that of amateur sport: it is a totally non-profit world, made in its vast majority of volunteers, which ensures sports activities to 20 million Italians, represents 2% of the Italian gross domestic product (4 percent, if we consider the induced) and over 1 million operators who are at risk at this moment. It is a sector that helps us every day to improve our quality of life, but above all it reduces public spending. From the health point of view, the fact that sports activities are taking place - it is evident that in these days Italians are doing it also inside their homes - is something that also helps us in the containment of public spending. The World Health Organization often recalls that the second cause of disease in the world is sedentaryness. Think how important sports activity is in a public budget. In the Italian decree-law, however, there are only two articles that refer to this matter. And yet we have a minister; then at one o'clock: either the minister wasn't incisive or the government didn't even listen to him. I do not even want to go into the merits of what has been included in the decree-law on the deferment of the fees of public sports facilities. The League has tabled an amendment, but I will talk about it shortly afterwards. (17.32) (Following BARBARO). The deferment of the canons I want to call it for what is actually: a great mockery; there is the shift of the canons of two months but with the permanence of the costs to the concessionaries subjects. So let's take care of the famous 50 million euros - out of 25 billion - that have been included in the decree-law, for a world that is so representative, as I described in my speech (0.2% of the total amount allocated). [[Recalls of the President]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister Spadafora said it was quick, timely and effective. Quick? Twenty-one days have passed for the enactment of the decree. Timely? I do not know what that means, but I quote it for the record, because in my opinion it corresponds to speed. Effective? Seven pages of an implementing decree that is tilting not only sport and health, but all operators in the world of sport. I can safely say that the measure, from our point of view, is insufficient for financial coverage, complicated for the procedures adopted and unfair for unequal treatment. Having said that, on the only sign of life that there has been on the part of the Government regarding sport, it is good that in terms of responsibility the Italians know what has been said no: the suspension of the fees for public sports facilities, the increase of the amount necessary for sports operators, the tax credit for the rental of private facilities, a minimum signal to a category of the world of sport that is suffering, that of equestrian sports, because to the difficulties of users there is also that of the maintenance of horses. I want to conclude with a wish: I would like everything we have said during the discussion of the decree-law care Italy can be borrowed to improve the next measure and above all can be added to something that is able to move the economy, of course, throughout the country but in the specific context I am referring to the world of sport, because Italy does not need debt. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u87	He's enlisted to speak Senator Cangini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u88	Mr President, members of the Government, my fellow senators, I would like to deal with two questions of method and one of merit. We proceed daily with the "count of the fallen," we have the military in the streets and we have agreed to suspend constitutional rights and prerogatives that we considered incompressible. Perhaps the war metaphor is not the most suitable, but we are certainly in the midst of an exceptional state. Personally, it does not scandalize at all that, being in the midst of a state of exception, the powers are concentrated in the hands of those who legitimately hold them, namely the President-in-Office of the Council. I find it questionable that Parliament is not in a position to carry out its functions fully and head-on - we can tell it as we please, but this is the reality - and I find it unacceptable that a speech by the Head of State was needed to make it clear to the President of the Council that he had a duty to share with the oppositions - it was not a question of opportunity, if you will, but of legitimacy - measures whose consequences will fall on the nation not for the next few years but presumably decades. It was March 23rd, I think I remember. Since then something has changed, but only formally: the comparison has been there, but in fact the proposals of the oppositions, of Forza Italia and of the other Groups, have not been taken into consideration. This is borne out by the fact that tomorrow we will vote - indeed, you will vote - on the issue of trust and I must say that almost all the amendments we proposed were declared inadmissible. This, in my view, is not in keeping with the exceptional state in which we find ourselves. Surely it is a behaviour that denounces a lack of institutional culture, the same as we find in the communication of the President-in-Office of the Council. Anyone who attended the press conference on Monday evening of Prime Minister Conte took the view that the next day it was enough to show up in the bank to have the powerful amount of liquidity that was introduced into the system, even if of course it is loans, so the ECB lends to banks, banks lend to citizens, entrepreneurs, professionals, who will then have to repay and all this will be part of a public debt that someone will have to pay sooner or later. The banks were stormed, with calls to thousands - they tell me - of entrepreneurs and professionals, but it was not so. That was not the case because there was still no decree-law; that was not the case because we know that, when the decree-law is published gracefully in the Official Journal, then we will have to wait for the opinion of the European Commission and we will have to wait for the banks to use them. In essence, a false expectation has been created which, in my opinion, has damaged not so much the credibility of the President of the Council as such - which is acceptable damage - but that of the institution which the President of the Council embodies and represents. The question of merit is what is most important to me and there are many categories that are not taken into consideration by the so-called Italian care. But there is one that perhaps, indeed, certainly deserved more attention. You see, ladies and gentlemen, those deprivations that all of us for the first time in our lives are forced to accept, and that we hope that they will fail in the shortest possible time, represent normality for a category of our fellow countrymen: I am referring to family caregivers, those who, mainly women, take care of a family member who is forced on a daily basis not to self-sufficiency by an illness or accident and who have their social life and their devastated incomes, who find themselves daily, for a life, for a life and for the whole of life in a condition that seems unacceptable to us for a short period of time. The so-called care Italy does not care at all for the needs of this category of Italians. There is good news that I have not accepted - and then withdrawn - an amendment of the Movimento 5 Stars that united the mockery to the damage, since it provided to draw and turn to other funds destined for caregivers, funds that accumulate since 2017 and that because of us, because of the legislator, have not been spent. Nor was an amendment of mine accepted, on 30.0.2, which provided for the possibility of giving family caregivers the 600 euro allowance that we recognize for VAT consignments for the first two months of the crisis (April and May), in the meantime to affirm their social function, because it is a natural mechanism that lightens the national health system, of which we are all filling our mouths today. It was right, it was a matter of social justice as well as symbolic, colleagues, because like today family caregivers are the symbol of our sick and suffering nation. I have been asked to turn that amendment on the agenda, but my answer is no and I entrust it to the Presidency: it is not sensible, we should have a lot of confidence in the interlocutor and, frankly, confidence should not be reflected. Colleagues, I believe that the dignity of the Government today and, more than the Government, the entire Parliament and the entire political class, will come from the fact that we will be able or not to give satisfaction to the needs of family caregivers. It is a commitment that overwhelms or threatens to overwhelm our reputation as representatives of the institutions. I hope and hope that something will be done in this respect. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u89	She is registered to speak Senator L'Abbate. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u90	Mr President, Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, we are living in a difficult situation, unimaginable until a few months ago. The Italian record of this experience speaks of a country hit hard, but that has also been, as the WHO has pointed out, the model to be taken for example for the measures to be put in place in this emergency. Italy, in this scenario, led by our Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, has proved to be the most decisive and compact country in dealing with the virus. The government has put the health of citizens first, relying on science and communicating with transparency the truth about everything that happened. Targeted and timely actions have been put in place, because you do not know what it means when dealing with a new problem; nobody knows it, there is no risk analysis, you have to put in place a task force that works on it to avoid creating additional problems, to avoid mistakes. This job takes time. This is science, not science fiction; this is facing situations with judgment. Targeted actions have been put in place to combat the spread of Covid-19. All this has led our country to be an example for everyone. Now we are still in the trenches and there are a number of difficulties. I would like to talk to you about the masks that we wear too: a good that we will need for a while. Unfortunately, in Italy we did not have enough production to meet the current internal needs, so since the beginning of the problem I tried to work to set up a network, perhaps made up of our companies, and I must say that the creativity of the Italians responded immediately. However, a few more steps must be taken. Through an agenda, which I presented with several other colleagues, I had tried to streamline and facilitate the production process. Simply put, this aims to eliminate the bottle neck that was created at the Higher Institute of Health, mainly due to the lack of an Italian certification body able to carry out the tests of the required UNI standard. Unfortunately, it is an emergency and we did not have anyone in Italy doing this type of test, while in Europe, with the problem that we all have, they need a month. So, how is it possible to do that? With the above-mentioned agenda, it is possible to introduce a silence-consent, after three days of non-response, for the companies that have submitted the certification, supported by a public research institute, therefore, that already have a prototype that responds to a guideline in accordance with that required by the Higher Institute of Health. I hope that the Government will accept this advice as soon as possible to speed up and acquire a useful tool for everyone. A government that deserves, in my opinion, applause for the courage with which it has tried to overcome the suffering of those who are in difficulty today. The decree-law that, together with the Italian care, brings the guarantees of the State to cover up to 750 billion euros of loans, represents a solemn effort. What does this moment of darkness teach us? Surely health is a global public good, and as such it must be protected. Some will learn that welfare state and public health are a formidable antibody to the protection of fairness; it is not a wheelchair that can be replaced by insurance levers that take care only of those who can pay. We're probably halfway through the ford. Remember Benigni in the movie "Life is beautiful" when, in the concentration camp, he tells his son that it's all a race and if you are good you can win when you get to a thousand points? What are our thousand points? They are represented by the drastic changes that we will be able to make. The economic model and lifestyle will have to change if we want to win, if we want to have a future. This pandemic is caused by a virus that, according to Jeremy Rifkin, is a refugee; he emigrated like all animals forced to change their habits because the temperature has increased in the biosphere, because we usurp their habitat, their home. The pandemic - like climate change - is a global problem, and it has affected our entire community because everything is connected. We can no longer talk about geopolitics, but about biosphere policy. This is the era of resilience. We therefore need to recalibrate our development models. When the darkest pages of this immense tragedy are written on history books, the green pact, the green new deal, will have to support an ecological and circular economy. The pandemic that is besieging the world is in effect a spy of how abused the planetary balance has been. On the one hand, there are those who die, and on the other hand, there are those who are hungry. And even today, between these two negative poles, there are those who pretend to ignore how everything is connected with pollution, the increase of greenhouse gases, selfishness and the competitive struggle to reach power. And there are still those who divide and those who propaganda. Pope Francis has long urged us to undertake a collective and conscious journey towards environmental and social sustainability and a global pact is needed, a dialogue between all the peoples of the earth to protect and defend our common home, life on the planet, the last and the weak (because equity is necessary) and the future of the generations that will come. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u91	Senator Gasparri is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u92	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, even today the President of the Count Council said that there is a positive dialogue with oppositions, but that is not the case. We have participated in meetings, comparisons, videoconferencing or direct meetings these days, but then this dialogue has produced absolutely nothing, because there has been no chance of sharing effective and useful decisions for citizens. On the contrary, let's also say that there is, in these hours and these days, a controversy against the institutions of Lombardy, also by a party whose leader went around the Navigli of Milan to say that there was no emergency (and then he also stumbled in that emergency), and with an attack on institutions of Lombardy that must be supported and not attacked in a polemic way, occupying for this purpose also channels of public service in an exaggerated way and also with the complicity of a news that does interviews to the people without even the face uncovered. The RAI of TG1 and Rai 1 give a hand to the country and do not feed disinformation. They're looking for fake news and they're on the main news. And there will also be the time of the judgments, not only political, for Conte, for Zingaretti and for Sala, who said "no emergency," "all quiet" and today they make controversy with those who were teased because he went on television with the mask, like the President of the Lombardy Region. Money: where, when and how? They invaded the other night, as a matter of urgency, public television, but still two days after the decree-law on liquidity is not there. In other countries they give money to companies, here they want to make entrepreneurs in debt to banks. This is being done by the Count Government. We must support the productive system, not in debt, filling it with figures that are precisely debts. The same has been done with local authorities, with a monstrous deception: those 4.3 billion a few days ago are an anticipation of money, however, given to local authorities during the year, while the money for the food costs of the less well-off are absolutely insufficient. Are 600 euros okay? Not for us; it is little and must be increased. And then the whole world of self-employment, trade, tourism, professions and the seaside world (which should prepare from here to a few weeks - God knows how - to the new season, which no one knows what it will be) what answers they had? You said in the Commission also to the right and elementary things, such as the restoration of the dry coupon for commercial rents, where traders will not have a euro collected and the owners will not be able to become their victims of this crisis. You said "no" to vouchers in agriculture, despite all the businesses in the agricultural world they call for them, because there is an ideological veto of the CGIL. You cannot disobey Landini and risk blocking Italian agriculture and the entire agri-food chain. That's the truth. You have also done other disasters. Things still don't work out at the INPS. We have asked and we repeat the resignation of a President for political reasons, because you had not found a place for him in the Ministry, and days ago everything was piled up and the problems continued. We record every day the concern of job consultants, which with regard to the Integration Fund and bonuses have not yet managed to register positions. How are they gonna get the government's promised check on April 15th? There are situations that we from the opposition have had to remove. This night, after a long armor, eight million were allocated for the overtime of the people in uniform; it is not enough, more money is needed, because you call on the Army that has also taken charge of the transport of the corpses. The armed forces are in fact attacked and weakened during normal periods and are then invoked in emergencies. No more pats on the shoulders, it also takes money to equate all the Forces engaged in these days, military or police. In conclusion, I believe that we must also remember a few things; in this House, ladies and gentlemen, you have wasted time on the no-vax issues. We await the apology of those who have denied the truths of science and health care, also wasting time on the Senate of the Republic, saying sesquiped nonsense of which you must be ashamed, that have made darkness prevail in some moments. We also had to fight in this House to prevent absurd arguments from taking precedence. Seeing the government of the country like this, that does not talk with oppositions and does not respect Parliament, impose trust, is really something difficult to bear. Finally, as far as Europe is concerned, we believe that it is what we must look at as a horizon, but we say to the other European countries that without Italy, Europe does not exist, without the law, art, literature and European civilization, that Italy has fueled, Europe does not exist. Then, Dutch or Germans lower their feathers: supporting Italy today is not a favor or a pleasure, it is an absolute duty, indeed, it is an honor for them [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] support a state and a land that has given rise, in cultural and moral terms, to Europe. So no hat in hand stretched, but strength, pride and determination. On all these sides we express a negative opinion on the government's action. I conclude by saying that if the President of the Republic, as he rightly has to do, calls for dialogue, watch over the dialogue that is not there for your arrogance that is even greater than your immense inability. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u93	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for weeks now our country has been fighting an emergency that has upset our everyday life, our way of being together, of relating and communicating. That isolation and those social distances that we have been forced to impose and impose on us, clearly, to limit the spread of this virus, put us in front of a situation that none of us had ever lived before. A situation that first affects our health system and our economic fabric which is suffering the consequences of this situation. It is in the face of these difficulties that we are called upon to give answers. I would like to make one premise: each of us in this House is aware of how complex our role is, how difficult the work that we have to do in these hours is to make choices in order to deal with this crisis. It is in fact an objectively difficult task to hold together the need to guarantee the right to health and, at the same time, to deal with the needs of those who face the blockade of productive, commercial and social activities, expect the State to lend him a hand. However, coming to this House and making a list of the things that should be done, as if the resources were endless, is extremely simple, at times trivial, Senator Gasparri. It is more difficult to try with the resources we have, with the lawful and responsible maneuvering spaces that can be used, to give concrete answers, quickly and without leaving anyone behind. Unlike those who try to use this tragedy as yet another opportunity to make propaganda, I believe that Government and Parliament are responsibly working to give this kind of response, starting from the decree-law to our examination, which is the first of a series of measures that the Government has launched and will apply. We are talking about a measure that allocates 25 billion and acts mainly on four fronts, starting obviously and above all from the strengthening of resources for the health system, for civil protection and for other public subjects engaged in the emergency; to them, once again, goes our immense thanks. Women and men who are putting their lives at stake on the front line, whether in a hospital lane or on the street are guaranteeing our health system, our health, our safety and also our emotional ties, as it highlighted yesterday - World Health Day - the New York Times, citing the case of a hospital in Lombardy where, as in many other realities, thanks to multiple donations, simple tablets have been made available that allow medical staff to communicate patients with family members. For a pure and simple case that Lombard hospital that they narrated overseas is that of my city, the hospital Uboldo of Cernusco sul Naviglio, and also for these gestures, in addition to the extraordinary professional commitment, we will never stop thanking the health staff of the whole Italy. They are intended for them, these health professionals, 3.5 billion of the 25 allocated in the decree-law under consideration. However, we know (and we must be honest with each other) that we must do more to ensure that all hospital wards, basic doctors and nursing homes have the necessary safety devices. The delay in this situation will have to be investigated in due course, but also in order to ensure the necessary restart, supplies must be adjusted as soon as possible. In these weeks a first response was also needed for the companies, for the many workers and VAT matches to which we asked for the greatest sacrifice, that of staying at home; certainly we did it for the good of all, but it is a sacrifice that translates for many in a reduction or too often in a total zero of profits and earnings. That is why we have provided for the extension throughout the national territory to all employees, to all sectors of production, of the integration fund by way of derogation; those employers have been given the opportunity to use the integration fund for nine weeks. For VAT consignments, we have provided for compensation of EUR 600 and I would like to focus on this point. We are all aware that it is not enough; Italy Viva immediately asked that this measure be strengthened to give a response to many workers and professionals. The government, however, was clear: that of 600 euros was a first emergency measure. This is not the time to deepen what has happened with the INPS procedures for the demand for 600 euros, but here I would like to thank the Government and Minister Gualtieri who have listened to our requests and have already announced that in the next measure the support will be increased, as the audience of those who will receive support from the State will be expanded. These will be added to those already provided for in the measure under discussion: I am thinking, for example, of the 300 million last resort fund for those excluded from the allowance of EUR 600. We don't stop. Just a few days ago a decree-law was issued by the Government that strongly supports the liquidity of companies with public guarantees on loans worth 400 billion. As we have argued since the beginning of this crisis, aid to companies, traders, craftsmen, professionals, VAT matches in our country is essential to guarantee and safeguard jobs. If companies go down because of lack of liquidity, we lose jobs and the consequent risk would no longer be to die because of the virus (which will pass, beat it), but to die or to see its life ruined by the lack of a salary. We need to do even more, we know, but a first response has also been given to many families, also thanks to the work and proposals of Italia Viva. I am thinking of the support of working parents with the 600 euro baby sitting voucher, increased to 1,000 euros for the staff of the Health Service and the Forces of the Order, the extension of parental leave and permits related to Law No 104 of 1992, the equalization of the disease of the quarantine period or forced isolation, or the suspension of loans for the purchase of the main house. I want to reiterate that the decree-law in question represents the first response to an unpredictable situation that has taken us all by surprise, in Italy as in the rest of the world, overwhelmed by something never lived before with these dimensions in the modern era and certainly never predicted by anyone. Colleagues, we know that others will follow this measure; we have worked hard and well as a majority to articulate some agendas with which Parliament wants to commit the Government to specific measures and interventions in one of the next measures. We will have to work hard and to the best of our ability to deal with those that are now defined in phases 2 and 3, in response to such a large event that it will be remembered for decades. I do not find it scandalous to discuss the modalities and timing of these phases. No one has the experience to tell where the truth lies. I recommend and recommend to the government to listen to scientists, but also experienced subjects of complexity, chaos and crisis. The development of the strategy to get out of the crisis and to better deal with phases 2 and 3 is the responsibility of the policy, which must decide after listening to different sensibilities and guidelines, provided that they are authoritative. This is for everyone the time of seriousness and responsibility, not propaganda. It is time to tighten up and cooperate, as I have also seen in the Commission these days between majority and minority - it must be acknowledged - not to divide and spread panic. It is a difficult time what we are called to live and even more difficult it will be for our children if we do not assure them of a better future. We are trying and I hope - and I hope again - that we will all do so together on the same front. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u95	Senator Garnero Santanchè is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course today we would have liked to have had a general debate which is completely different from what we are doing, because I think that this has always been the case - I think you have to admit that - Brothers of Italy said that they wanted to be there, that we were there and that it was not the time for divisions. We believe that our nation is fighting a war - a war different from what our generation has studied in history books - and, not being accustomed to being deserters in wartime, we have given our willingness to this Government. I repeat, we have always said that there is and will be Brothers of Italy. Unfortunately, however, as happens in life, in this House as well as in politics it is necessary to be two in order to be able to do things together. We wanted cooperation and believed that this cooperation was also required in the words of the President of the Republic. It was thought that all together we could win and bring our nation back to a victory. But, as in life, you never win alone. Instead, you want to try to win this great war on your own. What you have done today, with the request for a vote of confidence, Italians must know that it is the consecration of your will to go on alone and on your way. Then it is good that we stress that we do not want to be responsible for your choices. We do not want Italians - and in a few weeks you will realize this - to think that even Brothers of Italy is responsible for these unfortunate choices that you are making. Today we are talking about the so-called decree cure Italy as if you were doing who knows what. I remember that it was March 6th and today it is April 8th; in the meantime there is no Italian who has taken a euro, there is no fund that has received money, there is no VAT number that today can spend that money that you, in a pompous way, with your President-in-Office of the Council, have announced on television. We understand that this is only the Government of the announcements, but we regret to say so, because we do not want to emphasize what will happen in a few weeks, when the Italians will be aware and aware that, with this decree-law, of euros in their pockets you have not put them. Today is April 8th and they didn't have them. Soon it will be April 15th. I say this clearly, even if I would like the Italians to deny me: even on May 1, in this nation, there will be someone who will be able to take this money so flaunted! So this is your responsibility, and I'm telling you, you're gonna have to explain it. When we listen every day to that terrible civil protection press conference, which gives us the number of deaths, we must not forget that those numbers are people, they are fathers, they are grandparents, they are uncles, they have lost their lives. But when all this ends, the economic virus will make many more deaths than those of the coronavirus, thanks also to the measures that you, alone, with a single signature, are taking. Let me give you an example. I, in life, am an entrepreneur. You talked about the Integration Fund. It is right: the integration fund was fundamental at this time. Too bad you've added a nice piece to it, because it's an integration fund, yes, but it's with union bargaining. This is a shame, because in this nation you have closed everything, but you have kept the doors wide open to bureaucracy! [[Applause from the FdI Group]] Maybe you never hired! Maybe you never went to the bank to ask for a loan! Perhaps you, Government, have never had to pay contributions for employees! [[Live comments from M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u97	Colleagues, let my colleague speak. Everyone has the right to express their opinions. Please, Senator, I invite you to continue.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u98	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Don't get mad! But there's no way you can agree with my ideas. I'd understand I'm talking shit! [[Live comments from M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u99	Senator, please continue in your speech. There is no need to speak to the House. And the House gives Senator Santanche a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u100	GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). Thank you, Mr President. They're nervous. The integration fund, very useful tool. Thank you, on behalf of all the entrepreneurs of small companies for that beautiful wedge that you put us with the bargaining of the unions, also for the companies under 15 employees. The unions will be happy, because today, in companies with less than 15 employees, employees were probably not members of the union. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, address the presidency. GARNERO SANTANCHE (FdI). They have to sign up for the union today. Congratulations! Thank you for saving this bureaucracy, which hurts businesses very much, which hurts traders and artisans very much. You did this. We have asked you, Government, to accept our zero-balance amendments. Also there, on vouchers, we asked to revoke what you had decided in the famous decree dignity, but also on vouchers the answer was no. We have asked that all those who receive their citizenship income should soon be able to pick up agricultural produce, because it is necessary, but no, that is not good either. We asked for the INPS minima to be abolished for craftsmen and traders: no, this is not good either. We asked, on a zero-balance basis, for the cash limit to be abolished: no, this is not good either. Congratulations. Go ahead alone. Unfortunately, evict this nation of ours on your own. I want to conclude by saying that, even here, today we are talking about this decree cure Italy, with which, I stress, there is no euro and no one has taken anything. With the pompous decree liquidity, instead, give money. All entrepreneurs, artisans, traders had, for a second, the conviction that they could resist. Instead, what do we find today? We discover the little we know, because President Conte, in his pompous press conference, forgot to communicate in how many years and with what interests. Then, today, maybe we find out it's six years, while the interest rate still doesn't know. We have, however, discovered something. Yeah, we found out about that, that you segmented. You've put those companies in a gray area. I come from Lombardy, but I do not say it: the order of accountants has said that in the grey area in Lombardy there are 580,000 companies and those will have to fail. Well, a mountain of NPL, which will then be handed over to those companies that speculate on us. This liquidity decree is a farce. I'm ready to bet anything that takes the money will be very difficult. Perhaps you in the government do not realize that the measures should consider a clear, important thing: urgency. In fact, entrepreneurs, workers, craftsmen, accountants, freelancers do not have time. What do you promise? Promise entrepreneurs to get into debt, because this is your liquidity decree. But why should an entrepreneur be indebted, when who decided to close (rightly) was the State? Why does an entrepreneur have to borrow money when the state decides to close for an emergency? You wanted to go on alone: congratulations. You wanted to put only your signature: then, that the Italians know well who the responsibilities are. I would stress that we do not want to be responsible for the disaster that you are causing, from an economic point of view, to our nation. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u101	He's enlisted to speak Senator Martelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u102	You need to sit in the station on my right, on one of the free microphones. Eventually we avoid the first, to which the senator had already settled.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u103	Mr President, I believe that some controversy is acceptable, but on the content. Whether there is a vote of confidence or not there is for me is irrelevant; I am interested in what is in this decree-law. I would like to paraphrase what Lewis Carroll wrote in his novel: the decrees we have made are always good, the next ones will be good, but the present decree is never good. The best things are always postponed to the next provision, but every time it is always next, in the present moment it is never. Let's see then what is in this decree-law, but above all what is not there. It is clear that 25 billion euros, when there is such a serious economic crisis, are nothing, are not even dried figs at the wedding: it is the water of the tap. In particular, I noticed that in this measure there is no perception of how the Italian production system is segmented. I am thinking on the side of businesses, not on the side of users of services and buyers of goods. It is thought as if in Italy there were either the big business or the financial system. For example, it has only recently been noticed that the integration fund should also be extended to companies with only one employee: the bartender who has an employee, who is at home and has to pay for it. However, there are sectors where goods that have not been purchased during this period are not recoverable. When it reopens, people who have not gone to the bar for sixty days will not ask to consume at once sixty coffees or sixty croissants. They will not do so, provided, of course, that people have all this desire to reappear, with the exact same habits as before. This applies to a whole range of such goods, for example in catering, but also to certain classes of durable goods, such as clothing: someone might want to buy winter or spring clothing a month ago and surely will not buy it now. As a result, all these goods, which are however durable, do not know what will happen; they have been produced, but they do not know what will happen. Instead, some durable goods, such as washing machines, television sets and household appliances, can be sent and can therefore be repeated. Similarly, we take account of the agricultural sector. Cereals are good that does not have a production problem: they are planned seed and there are no problems. But the whole fruit and vegetable business? You understand that, at a time when a fundamental buyer like catering is missing, the sowing and production system must change. It is true that people eat at home, but the level and quantity of products that are discarded by the restaurant, due to the need to present products with a certain quality, are much higher and production takes this into account. Now, in the first place, the people who have to sow vegetables do not know what to sow because they have no idea how the internal market will evolve and therefore whether to sow for the inside or sow for the export and, secondly, you do not have it either. I am sorry, but that is so, because if I hear that in Italy we have to think about export and competitiveness, I ask you if you understand that there is a need to rebuild an internal market and an internal consumption structure, which we do not even know what it will be like. We do not know why, if on the one hand businesses have a problem, because they have things to pay and the small ones do not have the money to do it, in the same way the buyers of goods and services do not have the money in their pockets and are eroding the savings. We know that every time you go into the post-crisis the first thing you do is the recovery of savings and therefore we absolutely do not have the certainty - indeed, statistics say the opposite - that the domestic consumption market will suddenly re-explode and that the Italian will have all this desire to start spending again and again. Be careful not to focus only on the third of the population, consisting of civil servants or the large enterprise, who have a guaranteed salary, forgetting the rest, which is not in this condition, is not producing income and, consequently, has a difficulty in subsistence. That is why it is not 600 euros a month that can be a response. The answer is a healthy helicopter money, as it had been proposed in an amendment of mine and as a sovereign state should do, with a sovereign currency, for which the production of money, as the private banks do with the Scriptural currency, as it has been proposed in other nations, in which this monetary power exists, is not a problem. Another important thing to say in the short time I have left is the financing that is considered to give to the enterprises, both in the decree-law in question, and in the next liquidity decree. See that, at a time like this, when we are at the end of an economic cycle, at a time when the economy had stopped, the solution is not to further debt someone to pay dues, or other things like canons. I am referring, for example, to the payment of rents for all activities, such as catering or bars. These people have to pay rent. You are proposing a moratorium on fees due, for example, for leasing capital goods to financial institutions, but for other things you find yourself dismayed and desperate. If I have a bar and I had to close it, I still have to pay a rent: this thing is not considered at all. Why, then, do you want to ensure that companies are financed in this way? In my opinion, for one reason only, namely because you need to safeguard tax revenue, which is a duty, because in this system, in which we cannot touch the exchange rate and we do not have the opportunity to beat currency, tax revenue is to be safeguarded for the Italian State. It would be enough to say, then. You need companies to be able to pay all those taxes that you pay, regardless of whether it is generated revenue and profit, because there are, alas, taxes that you pay like this. Here it is interesting to make two quick considerations. Firstly, let us see what the fall in GDP is for March. Of course, production in part has gone ahead and so I believe that, based on the trend in tax revenues that, as the General Treasury of the State has said, has seen a contraction of 20 billion euros, we can assume that GDP for March alone has halved. Let us make an average: it is true that GDP is not the same in all the months of the year, but for once we do as with Trilussa's chicken: more or less one month's GDP is 140 billion euros and therefore there is no call for 70 billion euros and, given the tax burden at 50%, it would be 35 billion euros. So you understand that the EUR 25 billion has already disappeared and we are also under EUR 10 billion. Therefore the answer cannot be a decree-law that puts in place 25 billion euros and speaks of liquidity and not of bestowal. This is not the time to reason this way, that is, with the wallet pulled. We must think that money must be put on the table, possibly even at a loss. States with monetary sovereignty do this. States like this go on their knees and ask: "Dear Europe, please help me." But you knew that even before Europe was like this. Fortunately, then, I maintain my consistency in continuing to say that the European Union is something from which we had to get out; indeed, it is something in which we did not have to enter, and from which we have to leave, because seeing a sovereign state going, with its hat in hand, to ask for money is unacceptable. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u104	He's enlisted to speak Senator Stephen. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u105	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, on several occasions in this House we have debated the democratic alternation of roles and we have discussed whether or not the necessity and urgency which should always accompany the use of the decree should be appropriate. So many times we've been arguing, and we've been taking responsibility for it. In today's measure, however, we all find that these two requirements are fully, and unfortunately grievously, met. In the same way, however, the reasons that call us here today in this Chamber mark almost academically as the objective urgency of what we are experiencing does not exonerate us from the need to update a measure to the context that changes daily and that daily evolves, sometimes in a positive sense, at other times in the opposite direction. This is because in emergency - we all know - some risks can be solved after a few hours or sometimes they can evolve in other directions, worsening. That is why the parliamentary work of these days becomes central in order to ensure the necessary updating of the measures and to maintain the current and not exceeded a measure that is called for final adoption. This is a measure that - I remember - cannot be considered the panacea to the current crisis, its definitive solution. None of us have ever thought of it or affirmed it. But it was necessary to give the first answers, to lay essential embankments to prevent the risk of a devastation of negative effects. It is therefore only the beginning of a difficult and complex path. The political debate in this House during the first few days of crisis, but also today, should have taken greater account of this, especially by overcoming the temptation to continue seeking opposition, consensus on social media, rather by making a constructive, personal and true contribution. We had, and still have, the need to kick the virus out of our country and not to hunt for likes and polls. Instead, we found ourselves here almost faced with the paradox of those who shouted - and still cries - against the bureaucracy that lengthens the times and frustrates the effects of the measures, and then, paradoxically, assumes attitudes that risk slowing down the work, weighing down the debate, with often ideological positions that do not find justification even in the choice, short-sighted in this phase of acute crisis, of opposition regardless. It is distressing, for example, to see the choice of dividing up on topics, measures and themes that should be found all together: on all that of protecting the most exposed subjects in this crisis, i.e. the health care staff. But so much, this risk has also taken place, except then recover in the last few hours by returning benefit to everyone's work. As I said, the present decree-law is the first stone of an embankment called to respond to a crisis and its effects, which if in economic terms falls within the definition of symmetrical shock, from an exquisitely political point of view finds a truly full series of variations and implications. Today's Italian care is a measure that begins to respond - and I stress: it begins - to the needs and emergencies of the moment, the most immediate ones, and it does so by setting four pillars. The first concerns the financing and strengthening of the intervention capacity of the health system, civil protection and other public actors committed to dealing with the emergency with a robust budget of EUR 3.5 billion, and the indispensable support for those who are called to work on the physical front of this epidemic and those who live the first line, which fights and combats the contagion. In this regard, I would like to stress how useless and damaging the exercise of weaves of praise - due, it is quite clear - to operators, if at the same time they scream and speculate on the mistakes of the past, as well as to perform and consume energy in the midst of the crisis in yet another Italian derby between supporters of regionalization and those of nationalization of the health system. This is not the time for a dispute that dangerously distracts the attention from the real challenge, the decision to return and to have returned to invest in a sector that, however reproached, however, in the inevitable confrontation with the other States has proved nevertheless to be up to the dramatic situation that has overwhelmed us, certainly more than others. The second and third directors instead move from the objective to secure families and businesses, workers and the productive world, supporting liquidity with various tools, such as access to the Gasparrini fund for mortgages on the first house, the benefits to professionals (co.co.co., agricultural workers and entertainment), the bonus baby sitter, as well as the extension of some tools such as the fund integration, real and proper unicum in the history of our country. The fourth and final guideline concerns the suspension of the obligation to pay taxes and contributions and other tax obligations, as well as the introduction of incentives accompanied by a debate between those who asked for white years and those who, on the other hand, imagined that they would try to contemper more appropriately the need to support those who are in difficulty with the other, which is as much, to maintain a fiscal structure that remains necessary, precisely in order to support the fundamental functions of the State: safety and health. [[Applause from the PD Group.]] In short, it is a measure with which the perimeter of the crisis has been defined and begins to decline the measures to be remedyed. It is the beginning of a cure, the good beginning of care for our country, also because we are already seeing that there is no lack of awareness and courage to give life to further and necessary measures to the height of the extraordinary situation that we live. Sometimes, in fact, doing your best is not enough: we have to do what is necessary. Today we can say then that the care Italy not only has been improved in the phase of examination here in the Senate, but that it has already germinated in further initiatives, such as the decree-law liquidity, that it will have to be the powerful basis for the restart of our country; and then the decree-law of April will open to a version 2.0 of some measures contained in the measure in the phase of conversion, in compliance with what we have argued in these days and also today in this Chamber, all trying to keep in mind the need to innovate and streamline bureaucratic procedures and formalities that never as today must find us all engaged in the same, no longer postponed, direction of courage: who does not agree to streamline the bureaucracy? To do so, however, it is not enough to make videos on social media: you have to work trying to contribute to the improvement of the measures. I shall therefore conclude my brief speech to reiterate that the dramatic situation we are going through calls on us all, but all of us, to exercise our sense of responsibility. We need to get rid of the virus. Don't go after the likes. We must abandon the attitude of well-offness that often deteriorates and disqualifies not only the political debate, but also the effectiveness and validity of the policies that we have put in place. We must do this as always, first of all, for the country and then we owe it also to the authority of the institutions that we are called to serve; but we must also, I dare say, to those operators who are in the front line and who continue to fight for us and for our system. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u106	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u107	Mr President, first of all I would like to join my colleagues who have addressed a thought to the thousands of our fellow countrymen who have lost their lives in this emergency and to their families. I believe that the greatest form of respect for them is to do our duty, to do it with seriousness and responsibility and, however, I am allowed, also telling the truth. That is what citizens expect. A few moments ago a colleague of the Movimento 5 Stars, with emphasis, compared the government's communication to Benigni that in the movie "Life is beautiful", describing the reality to the son in the concentration camp, compared everything to a game, to a race to win a prize. Allow me, but it is a sadly good comparison, because, unfortunately, Benigni, even if with love towards his son, told him still lies. In these weeks we have heard too many lies and half truths, and this must be said because otherwise you cannot build something together and go further. The decree-law cure Italy was the test bench. Let us remember how we arrived at the measure, after strong calls from the President of the Republic; perhaps he has intervened several times in recent weeks - sometimes by calling some President of the Region, at other times by summoning the political forces - that in recent months and this says a lot. Unfortunately, compared to what was to be a test, the President of the Council himself, at one of the many press conferences - at a time, perhaps the only one, when he admitted that perhaps something has not gone - admitted that our own institutional structure and our rules were not ready for a situation like this, closing: we will see how to remedy it. However, from that moment on, we lay a pitiful veil on the attacks on governors, on the discharge of blood against doctors, on the laughter at a press conference with masks, on appeals in defense of undeclared work. Even neglecting this, what has been and continues to exist - until yesterday, until today - is an escape not from responsibility, but from reality. See Minister Azzolina abandon the conference with regional education advisors [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , to leave wishing you good day because he had nothing to answer legitimate questions at a meeting asked, begged and provided after the press had amply anticipated, for the umpteenth time, the contents of a decree, is not correct. The same could be said - and I will do so later - of other strong positions: I do not believe that the President of the ANCI, Mayor Decaro, can be accused of being a dangerous ligist, yet what he says is what we have been saying for weeks. I was saying, an escape from responsibility and reality. On the red zone, on the care of Italy, on the list of codes Ateco, on the contributions to the Municipalities, on the company liquidity, we have created a new phase: usually you have the approval, the promulgation and the publication of the acts; with the Government Count we have witnessed the advance announcement, which has become a real phase, always. If wandering is human, persevering is diabolical. I believe that in a sentence of the premier there is the failure of an approach, at the time when he said: I would say everything, we didn't do anything wrong. Well, to add a statement like this - someone before me called them back - to the photos of trucks that take away coffins because you can't manage them, it means that maybe, without wanting to do a personal matter, we've all done something wrong. Maybe all together something better could be done and we definitely didn't do it with this decree-law. Where were you? It might be easy to say. Beyond personal events - I would like to greet my colleague Simone Bossi who returns after quarantine and who has been on the territory and to address a thought to Daisy Pirovano and Cristiano Zuliani, who are also mayors - each of us, all of us, has tried to be on the territory alongside the citizens, alongside the businesses, alongside the mayors and administrators. Each of us was also here and tried, in the conferences calls, in the preventive meetings and in the meetings of the Commissions, to make his own contribution. So, Mr Vono, I do not know if you have read the amendments. However, half of the amendments were majority and therefore of the two: either the amendments were - let us say this - useless, or the measure was ineffective. It is not true that tomorrow confidence is placed because of obstructionism, because we come to this House with all the amendments that have been dealt with (and I thank the President of the Commission for the way in which he has conducted the work, since we have been about twenty hours in the Commission between yesterday and today) and with a mandate to the rapporteur voted unanimously. There's our responsibility. You do not see any constitutional prejudices presented. We would have to discuss the usefulness of setting up a flagship company with an emergency measure, but we did not. So we have had this responsibility and let me say, Senator Begin, that we have not come to list the problems and we have not tabled amendments with staggering figures. We have heard ourselves say 'no' about amendments that did not have expenditure, about legal amendments that were our contribution to improving the situation. Very few examples: do we want to talk about waste management? We wanted to go and review the rules and timing at a time when our country sees every year 200,000 trucks go back and forth inside the country and abroad and sees thousands of tons of waste brought abroad: this will not be possible. Going to address this problem now means avoiding an emergency in the emergency. Allowing the use of vouchers in agriculture and tourism, as we asked, means giving an answer: we have been able - and unlike you we have expressed a favourable opinion to many majority amendments - to extend the residence permit to workers in agriculture until 31 December, you do not give the possibility to Italian citizens to work and companies to be able to use this instrument, which would not have led to an increase in costs. To hear colleagues say that it is very important that an agenda has been adopted which will commit the Government to speed up the production times of the masks is shameful. The masks served weeks ago and if in three days did not give answers to the Higher Institute of Health, finding different rules and intervening immediately at zero cost meant potentially saving lives and avoiding infection. There were amendments that have been dealt with and rejected, so it is not a matter of not wanting to waste time, an extra 'yes', a less 'no' or a less withdrawal would probably have made the difference. That is what we do not accept. And be careful that there will be people who a next decree will not be able to wait for it, neither in economic terms, nor unfortunately perhaps in terms of health and life, because there are things that had to be done immediately. I do not give any other examples, because my colleagues who spoke before me, such as Senator Barbaro, Mrs Nisini and Mr Rufa, have made them in detail. I would like to thank Mr Crucioli for introducing the subject in certain terms (I suppose it was not easy) who spoke of the risks he wanted to denounce with force, both internally for the rules and for democracy, because it is not possible to continue announcing decrees, when we are still converting the first, going ahead with decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers, but he also spoke of Europe. I start to conclude in time: between saying and doing there is Europe and we cannot hide it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Some time ago the holding cell became an overnight room. Talking about MES with feeble conditionality is like talking about sweet strangulation. Then we cannot accept that we do not have answers from Europe and that we should set in motion the mechanisms that would be harmful to us. I say this with a thought that I hope is caught by everyone: there is someone who to think of going into history books, inspired by Churchill maybe, does not think that books risk taking them to court companies and if they close companies, it is not a damage only to the owner [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which is not the owner, is the employer who often works alongside employees, but it is a defeat for everyone, for those in that company who work and with dignity assures a future to themselves and to their family. Then we need answers now, they were needed before, it's already late and we can't wait any longer. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u108	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u109	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the President and rapporteur, Mr Pesco, for the relationship between the government and the members of the Commission during these days of the decree-law process, the undersecretaries who participated in Castelli, Misiani, Castaldi and Malpezzi. So a thank you for the part of method. The measure before us, ladies and gentlemen, is the first measure to be taken economically in relation to the emergency. This is because of the vote on the deviation, a law reinforced under Article 81 of our Constitution, done in the House and Senate classrooms a few days ago. We are all aware that it is partial because it intervenes on an emergency. It is partial and we, aware of all this, have contributed as requested by the Government. The political opposition forces, including Forza Italia, have participated in cooperating in the method and in the substance with their proposals. We want to say that it is the first attempt to read the economic and social framework of our country, of Italy, compared to the pandemic that has not invested us, but invests us and is investing us still. However, we must bear in mind that this is already a reading of the past because it looks not at the future but at immediate action. We have shared some choices of assessment, made and requested by the Government in the relationship with the opposition political forces, aimed at not intervening on the health front and on the emergency health to leave room for more immediate regulatory acts, with less procedure. We would certainly like clear regulatory action first for the citizens, even before we do. Perhaps we would like fewer press conferences and a little more clarity in what are the rules for achieving the common goal: getting out of this emergency. The amendments that have been adopted are largely an attempt to correct what was not in the original decree-law, what did not work in it, what was missing in the text, or - honestly - what happened. It is in fact - alas - dated, it has passed, a week in this situation probably corresponds to a year and more. Do not ask yourself whether we are satisfied with what has happened and what is the provision. The answer could be no and would be no in relation to the amendments and considerations of merit that we have brought about. However, it is absolutely not our satisfaction as a political force that weighs, it is the response to the needs of the country that we care about and consequently it is on this that we must measure ourselves. Colleagues, I will not dwell on the many issues that have been dealt with and which have been the subject of hundreds of amendments and agendas approved, but on a list of emergencies: I am thinking of health, which we see as the first title of the news every day, and which we have delegated to the Government for regulatory acts. However, there is another emergency, the economic one, about which some answers are given to the country regarding the assault it might have: the golden power was inserted in a measure that we will see later in the Chamber, but it brings out the great theme of the loss of production, which involves the risk of not opening up and therefore finding us in some time, trying to look to the future, not with thousands but with millions of unemployed. The so-called liquidity decree-law tries to respond to this and we will see it when it is published in the Official Journal. The government claims it brings over 400 billion that can reach 700. I have a question: we're filling the cans with water, but which one of us can say if in three or four months the horse will still drink? Will we still have companies drawing on these funds? This is the issue we have to ask ourselves and the reasoning that we have to make right now. Finally, I also remember an opportunity. This crisis also leads us to have to make a parliamentary assessment of the use of smart working, which however is creating opportunities for growth, for an evolution that the country can live. The second theme is that of work, with respect to which the measure under consideration gives so much, it responds with the umbrella. There is, however, a small detail: it is not working. I remember that the integration fund was due to arrive on 15 April, but it will probably arrive at the beginning of May; normally it takes six months for the derogation fund, if we accelerate it will take three months; what do workers eat in these three months waiting for the derogation fund? Vouchers did not want them for reasons I believe of political choice, but you prefer unemployment or undeclared work over a defined period of change. Finally, I would like to make a point about Europe and what should be the highest choice. The distinction between rigorists and laxists is certainly part of the debate; as a Europeanist I hope and hope (because, however, Europe should not be just a geographical expression) that there is a point of convergence, beyond the name, which shows that Italy and Europe are able to respond to this serious situation. In conclusion, I believe that we will have to start preparing for the next, when we will live, and then to live again we must start thinking about territories, sectors, businesses, size to reopen as soon as possible, because we are convinced that we can do it. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u110	She's enlisted to speak Senator Accoto. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Vice-Minister, today this House is called upon to discuss the so-called Italian decree-law. This is only the first of a series of measures designed to deal at national level with the health, social and economic consequences of the diffusion of coronavirus. Colleagues, we are experiencing a moment of quite exceptional difficulty. As a result, exceptional measures must be taken and the time taken to approve the measures which contain them, especially because the so-called Italian decree cure must be framed in a wider mosaic of measures already included in the decree-liquidity law recently approved in the Council of Ministers and of which the further decree expected for mid-April and all other measures necessary to prolong, if necessary, the measures to protect health and consequently of families, workers and enterprises will be included. It is, therefore, an organic set of measures with which we are trying to create the best possible network of protection around families, workers, small businesses, craftsmen, traders, all those who at a time like this are involved in the activities of countering the effects of the virus. At the moment, the priorities are the containment of the epidemic and the strengthening of the health system's response capacity, as well as the support of workers, families and businesses. Public action must ensure the resources necessary to strengthen activities to prevent the spread of contagion and care interventions in favour of the infected in order to mitigate the consequences of the increase in cases to be dealt with. At the same time, however, public action must offer certainties and guarantees in order to induce companies not to lay off, avoiding to reduce the incomes of households and to put them in a position to overcome the difficulties connected with both the sharp decline in demand, the spread of contagion and the prevention measures of the same. The decree cures Italy moves along these guidelines and represents a first large response to the emergency: 25 billion euros allocated to deal with health, extend the social shock absorbers to protect the work, give oxygen to the enterprises, with the suspension of a whole series of tax and contributory obligations and with a first strengthening of the Central Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises. And also here we pay attention, because the further extension of the suspension of the tax obligations that the so-called Italian Decree cures provides for the companies within the 2 million turnover in the most affected productive sectors has already been inserted within the so-called liquidity decree, which has clearly extended the turnover thresholds, as well as the further strengthening of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises, already strengthened with one and a half billion euros additional in the so-called Italian Decree cure has already been inserted in the liquidity decree, which provides to bring the endowment of the same fund to 7 billion euros. I would like to insist on the links between the various measures so that we take into account the full picture, the same framework which, as the President of the Count's Council explained a few days ago, will be able to free up liquidity to our economic and social fabric of up to 750 billion euros, considering all the measures on the table. A figure, the latter, which puts us in line with the actions of our main partners of the European Union and which, indeed, sees us going even beyond the resources released from most other European countries. Therefore, this is not the time for controversy or flags to plant. But it is a fact - and it is demonstrated by a recent study - that in the last ten years the health service has failed, in terms of definancing, 37 billion euros and tens of thousands of beds sacrificed on the altar of that austerity that has done immeasurable damage to Italy and Europe, as unfortunately these last weeks have shown us amply. The 5 Star Movement on Public Health to be strengthened and protected, as shown by the latest budget laws, is not willing to transition. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The exceptional crisis we are facing has seen the Government respond promptly, without saving any effort. It is not an easy situation, it is not an easy situation for any European country. Precisely for this reason, the mosaic I was talking about at the beginning cannot fail to include the decisions expected at European level in order to make available, at a common level, resources that are up to the challenge. Still in these hours, unfortunately, we listen to anti-historical resistances from some countries reluctant to share a common economic effort to face the emergency in a choral way. However, as the President of the Count Council recently reiterated, history is heading in the opposite direction to this reluctance. Italy is playing its part in everything and for everything, but Europe must be convinced that sharing an effort today means sharing all the opportunities that will result tomorrow. I should like to conclude with a few thanks. I thank the rapporteur, the undersecretaries Castelli and Misiani, the undersecretary Castaldi and all the senators of the Committee budget for the tenacity in carrying out the work of the Commissions, despite the difficulties, also logistical of the moment we are living. Special thanks also go to all the offices of the Budget Committee and the Senate, which have supported us in this delicate moment of emergency for the country. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u112	The general debate is closed.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u113	I call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u114	Mr President, the reply will be absolutely rapid. There seems to have been a lot of criticism, but I would like to recall the efforts made by this majority to find a fruitful dialogue with the oppositions. On this dialogue, we can only mention the efforts of our Minister for relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà, who, in my opinion, has done a great deal to make it constructive. The results we have achieved, in my opinion, are many, as 90 amendments on a 126-part structure have been adopted. In my opinion, more could certainly have been done if there had been resources. Unfortunately, the resources needed for this measure, together with those that have been collected (we remember, in fact, that there are three other decrees, including this), had already been used for all the measures included in this measure. We have, therefore, done everything we can to make the present measures more effective: moving from the integration fund, which we have extended to all those who need it, to the bonus, going to modify and improve the definitions of the categories of subjects that can be supplied through this instrument. In short, the proposals made were very many. In fact, we must realise that the activity of a country, an entity and a related company has not been suspended, but the activity of a whole nation has been suspended. Being able to act effectively, quickly, quickly, in order to be able to secure our country from the economic point of view in this situation is not at all easy. This is because all the activities that can continue to be carried out need regulation. Let us think, for example, of education and distance learning, of notaries' activities, of mediation, of court activity. What has not been suspended goes on and, however, needs to be regulated. Unfortunately, every activity needs regulation, and we have done so with these measures. I mean, the things that have been done have been very many. About 100 amendments adopted in all areas. Could we do more? Yes, perhaps more could be done, but the conditions in which we work are precisely those created by the problem we are facing, the problem of the virus and the epidemic. We have worked in emergency situations and, in my opinion, we have managed, through new instruments, to create a better dialogue even with the opposition forces. Mr President, I do not take any more time in this House and I am, however, proud of the work that has been done and of the fact that we can have a better dialogue with the opposition. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u115	I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u116	Mr President, I would like to join my fellow senators and senators in this House who have thanked the doctors, nurses, members of the police forces, the armed forces, the workers of essential services, the volunteers of the third sector who, in these very difficult weeks, have done their work and their sacrifice for the good of the country. I would like to join the senators and senators who have remembered the more than 17,000 victims, the people who have lost their lives in these weeks for this terrible epidemic. Among them, many elders, an entire generation that has been hit hard, whose family members have not even had the opportunity to comfort and greet one last time. I would like to pay tribute to the Italian people, whom we have asked for a heavy sacrifice. We asked the Italians to change their habits of life, to stay closed at home, to minimize their social relations, to give up their work activities. The Italians did it with an incredible discipline, with a spirit of sacrifice, in a way that none of us could have imagined from the start. I would like to pay tribute to the local communities of this country, starting with those most affected by the epidemic: Bergamo, my city, Brescia, Lodi, Cremona, Piacenza, the cities and countries that have seen so many of their citizens lose their lives and that, with great dignity and great strength, have endured a load of pain that was not seen in this country since the Second World War. Senator Comencini is right: we are called to operate in a difficult time and we have all been called to act, each for his own responsibility, in an unknown land. We must be honest with ourselves: the pandemic has caught all the nations of the West unprepared, which, unlike China, Hong Kong, Japan, had nothing to do with the SARS epidemic of 2002-2003. This pandemic caught us unprepared. There is a dramatic gap between the statements of political leaders of all belongings in February and the statements of the same leaders a month later, when the whole world had to shut down economic activities and ask citizens to remain locked in their homes, in a gigantic quarantine. The Italian government, the government of the country that in Europe was first hit with unusual hardness by this epidemic, had to build a strategy of contrast starting from scratch. This is the truth: we had never dealt with a phenomenon of this magnitude. Italy in many ways - I say without rhetoric - has opened the way to other countries that, after us, have had to face the epidemic. We had to build an answer by being a democratic and proud country, proud of the prerogatives of Parliament and the national and local institutions, which we have preserved at a very difficult stage. We have dealt with this epidemic as an autonomous country, a country in which the responsibility of the organization of the Health Service is entrusted by the Constitution to the Regions, in which close coordination is indispensable, a constant confrontation between the national government and the territorial autonomy that have important responsibilities on the side of the protection of the health of the citizens. The draft law which we discussed and amended in the Budget Committee and which we shall vote on in this House must be included in this context, it must be read, evaluated and analysed in this situation. It is part of a broader strategy and I stress "part": it comes after the first measures adopted immediately, the closure of red areas in the province of Lodi and in the province of Padua, and it was followed by the liquidity decree, launched by the Council of Ministers just now, and will be followed by a further large measure, which will be launched by the Government after Easter. It is part of a strategy that is based on a few pillars: strengthening the response capacity of the National Health Service and civil protection, which were two assets that this country could rely on. It is a good thing that there is a universalist public health service; it is a good thing that this country has built over the years a civil protection system that can count on thousands of volunteers throughout Italy. But we had to strengthen the capacity for action, both health and civil protection, and we did so by investing more than EUR 4 billion in this decree-law. The second objective was the protection of labour, in the broadest possible sense: employee labour, which we tried to protect by extending the integration fund to all companies, regardless of the size and the sector of belonging, but also the world of self-employed and professional work, which never in this country had access to social shock absorbers. Unfortunately, this is the history of Italian welfare, which for the first time, albeit with all the limitations, receives massive support from this measure of over 3 billion euros, which benefit 5 million self-employed and professional workers. It is, I repeat, an improvementable intervention. We are all aware of the inconveniences, the difficulties, the fact that this money must come and we hope that they will arrive as soon as possible, but for the first time the country takes structural responsibility for a fundamental part of the world of work, which had never had access to protections in emergency situations. The third major pillar is the support for the business system and the tax measures contained in this decree, which provided for a first important liquidity intervention. From the economic and social point of view we are called to do two things: guaranteeing the continuity of the income of workers and families and guaranteeing the survival of the country's productive system, which means guaranteeing liquidity to Italian companies, in order to allow them to withstand the impact and to restart as soon as possible. In this decree, liquidity interventions are worth more than €350 billion, between the strengthening of the SME Fund and the moratorium on bank financing. It is EUR 350 billion, to which, as you know, the other EUR 400 billion of guaranteed financing provided for by the liquidity decree, launched a few days ago, has been added. Several speeches by my colleagues in the opposition have called into question the lack of dialogue, from their point of view, or the lack of sharing. We have heard a lot of criticism: we take note of it and record it. I have listened to the speech of Senator Quagliariello and other colleagues, but I do not think that the confrontation between government, majority and opposition can be reduced to mere institutional etiquette. We had meetings on meetings, hours and hours of discussion, which were not only institutional courtesy, but which had concrete results and not only because some amendments were adopted, in a condition in which the spaces were objectively very limited. The government has in fact used all the permission granted by Parliament and unfortunately we had very little financial space to devote to the parliamentary debate. But this concerned opposition groups such as the majority groups and was not the result of a preliminary attitude. But the debate that has taken place in our very long videoconferences, as well as in the hours and hours spent in the Budget Committee, should not be read just by looking at the number and scope of the amendments and agendas approved, because it was a political debate, which focused on the choices, which have gone to form and which have been included in the liquidity decree and which will be provided for by the April Decree, which will strengthen interventions on social shock absorbers, for local authorities and for the benefit of the business system. The discussions that we had between ourselves and the content that the opposition brought on those discussion tables did not remain a dead letter, but they became part of the strategy with which the government wants to counter the economic and social effects and consequences of the health emergency, of course in the distinction of roles, knowing that there is no government of national unity, but there is a condition of exceptionality. In a condition of exceptionality, the Government - from this point of view I agree with the opposition - has the duty to gather the willingness to dialogue, the proposals and the proactive capacity of the opposition forces as well. In a condition of exceptionality, the entire ruling class of the country is called to a particular responsibility. Certainly the responsibility to give the country a message of cohesion, unity and common work rests on those who govern, but also on those who are placed in opposition. We have not always succeeded - I do my part of self-criticism - each for his own responsibilities, but I believe that on this point we have nevertheless marked a very important step forward in relation to the way in which political dialectics has taken place too many times in our country. Also because - and I stress once again the importance of dialogue between us - we must not only deal with the emergency, but must plan the restart of the country. It is right who said in this House that this issue concerns the political class, but also our ability to collect the best intelligences of the country, the medical and scientific community and the economy, those that deal with Italian society, because nothing will be the same as before, when this health emergency - hopefully soon - will be behind our backs. Nothing will be the same as before in the way we look at health and science, in social and family relations, in the school system, in our welfare for how we have built it and for how we have learned that it must change, in the economic system and in the global chains of value, rather than in the role of the State in the relationship with the private sector and with the third sector. Nothing must be the same as before in our relationship with Europe. A very delicate and very complex negotiation is under way in these hours in the Eurogroup. You know the scope of the stakes. I agree with Senator Bonino when she pointed out that the problem is not the European institutions, but it is the national states which are part of the European Union and which interpret the scale, scope and ambition of the European project in a profoundly different way than our sensitivity. When I say that the problem is not the European institutions, I say this remembering the role that the European Central Bank is playing in these hours for the reduction of tensions on the financial markets and, ultimately, for the defense also of the economic interests of our country, which, if there had not been the extraordinary plan of purchases of the ECB, would be in a much more difficult condition as to the ability to finance the resources with which we have built this decree-law and with which we will also build the interventions that will be gradually approved in the coming weeks. The challenge is therefore to overcome the resistance that some countries in Europe are doing, without understanding that we are in an unprecedented situation in which reasoning with the old schemes is something not only senseless, but counterproductive in a continent strongly interwoven and in which the emergency health, as well as the economic emergency, does not stop at the borders, does not stop at the Brenner, does not stop at Ventimiglia, but concerns the whole continent and all the countries of the European Union. We discussed the budget in the Committee on Budgets and we have gathered so many useful and sensible proposals from the majority forces and opposition forces, but I have already mentioned this: we did not have the financial space to formally collect them all. But these proposals came into the government's debate. Some have already been collected in the liquidity decree, launched a few days ago. Another part will try to make it ours in the decree-law of April that the Government will pass after Easter, strengthening the social shock absorbers, taking advantage of the solicitations on the world of self-employment, working on the local authorities that are in great difficulty and must be helped, because they are the first frontier of the public system in the social estate of our country. There is also the issue of health and the issue of a first recovery of losses for the sectors most affected, because epidemics and their economic consequences have manifested themselves in a very different sector by sector. We will not go everywhere, we must be aware of it and we must be honest with the Italians; we will not go everywhere, but we will try not to leave any citizen of this country alone. We will do whatever is necessary to help Italian families and businesses to withstand the impact of an unprecedented emergency, and to restart as soon as possible, stronger than before, when this emergency will finally be behind our backs. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-PSI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u117	I shall refer the following to another session of the draft law.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u118	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-04-08-LEG18-Senato-sed-205.ana.u119	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Thursday 9 April, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 19.18.
