ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u1	The sitting was opened at 12:01 a.m. The Minutes shall be read. Mr Montevecchi, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of 23 September. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u3	I communicate that on 24 September 2020 the regional electoral office at the Court of Appeal of Venice, following the supplementary election held on 20 and 21 September 2020 in the Uninomial College 09 of the Veneto Region, in order to assign the seat rendered vacant by the death of Senator Stefano Bertacco, has proclaimed elected candidate Luca De Carlo Senator of the Republic. I communicate that, on 25 September 2020, the regional electoral office at the Court of Appeal of Cagliari, following the supplementary election held on 20 and 21 September 2020 in the one-named College 3 of the Region of Sardinia, in order to grant the seat rendered vacant by the death of Senator Vittoria Francesca Maria Bogo Deledda, has proclaimed the candidate Carlo Doria Senator.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, as established by the Conference of Group Leaders and communicated to the Groups, the sitting is suspended until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 12.06 p.m. and resumed at 10.02 p.m.) Colleagues, before continuing with the subject on the agenda, I welcome, on behalf of the entire Assembly, Senator Doria. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u5	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1925. The rapporteurs, Senators Errani and Manca, have requested permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur, Senator Manca.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u6	Mr President, first of all I would like to thank the Government, Minister Gualtieri, Vice-Ministers Castelli and Misiani, Minister D'Incà and Undersecretaries Guerra, Malpezzi and Castaldi, for their valuable contribution and for the work we have done together in the difficult process of converting Decree-Law No 104. Considering the difficult economic context, as well as social, that involves our country and taking into account also the difficult epidemiological context that has gone through our works (I take the opportunity to wish the senators a prompt recovery), I believe a fruitful work has been carried out and also the willingness to compare with the oppositions has proved useful in qualifying our initiative. I want to thank President Pesco who shared this difficult path with us. Together with Senator Errani we shared a precise political approach in the conversion of the decree-law; to improve the text, working on four macro themes and building on them the confrontation with the oppositions and, without amendments by the rapporteurs, to work through rewordings presented by all the parliamentary groups on amendments of parliamentary initiative of the different groups. It was thus possible to improve the text, in particular by promoting a positive solution for fragile work, by correctly interpreting important investments needed in the tourism sector, in particular on rental companies and thermalism; positive and important responses also in the earthquake package and extension of the exemption of public land occupation fee (COSAP) and the tax for the occupation of public spaces and areas (TOSAP) for streetwalkers. A political choice that has enabled us to identify a useful comparison in the Budget Commission, and the amendments approved by the Commission by a large majority confirm the positive work done. This path, in my opinion, is useful for Parliament and for the country; when there is the fate of tens of thousands of immunodepressed and fragile workers, of hundreds of thousands of businesses, tourist and agricultural, of weak categories, such as streetwalkers, and of the families affected by the earthquake in the difficult phase of the restart, the confrontation becomes useful and positive. When confrontation takes place on a precise political line, we also give back to the political word the dignity it deserves. The debate has therefore qualified and qualified Parliament's credibility and also makes an important contribution to raising the responsibility and reliability of democratic institutions, even with deeply alternative identities and values. Certainly and probably other choices were made by the oppositions on how to deal with and resolve this crisis. However, I believe that this confrontation will be useful to the country, as well as to Parliament. As is clear to all, Decree-Law No 104 is not only part of the general strategy of responding to the pandemic and of relaunching the economy launched by the Government, but also constitutes the bridge to the new European programming. Italy, that is, has at its disposal not only the 100 billion net debt used to protect the work, help the enterprises and promote the restart of our Country, but it has at its disposal the largest, important and extraordinary opportunity to plan and plan a new economic development, that is to place the State at the center of an indispensable action in order to favor a new economy. The ecological conversion of the economy will be decisive in determining new employment and new growth, as well as the commitment of the State in the process of digitization of our territory will open a new phase for our country and for our economic system. We have done all this by putting the right to health first. Promoting the quality of the health system and planning the necessary investments to characterize the new face of territorial medicine is not only useful in responding to the primary right to health, but gives us a new meaning of the term "public." Thus, in the past, we leave the contrast between public and private, between the State and the market, between labour and capital. We bring in the future a new function of the State and the entire public system. I believe that we can say that we can put an end to a useless and instrumental political opposition towards everything that is public and relocate the role of the State within economic dynamics. In a particular way, we see in the strengthening of the role of the Deposit and Loan Fund a positive solution to try to direct our country towards economic dynamics directed to innovation, digitalization, university and research, indispensable to build a new economic agenda in our country. All this happens, President, within data and numbers that can leave no doubt about the quality of the response that our country has given and our Government has identified to go through the crisis. The theme is not only that of the quality of the work of our health system, which has clearly proved to be a universal health system which is the result of the work and intelligence of the most valuable and most important public system that we have, together with the school, at our disposal. Istat data confirm the important measures introduced by the Government, because after a very negative second quarter, the result of the quarter that goes from May to July encourages us to a new restart: more 12.1% in absolute value of GDP, plus 11.5 in real terms. This is the comparison with the February-April 2020 quarter. We can have different ideas, perhaps we could have put in place alternative means, actions and initiatives between the different political forces, but it is not right to denounce the absence of a project and the weakness of the measures we have introduced. Measures to boost growth in its various components, to promote liquidity for businesses, to protect work and to guarantee through moratories new loans to companies have been identified at different times and in different ways, with 100 billion net debt; different times and ways in close relation to the European dynamics and the important choices that the European Central Bank has made in the interest of Europe. In short, we have built this response in close harmony with a new European face. There is no scope for sovereignism, nor for unnecessary controversy within the new economic challenges facing us. Decree-Law No 104 moves on the 25 billion net debt that Parliament has authorized; 32 billion is the net balance to be financed. Italy's response to the pandemic crisis, representing 6 percentage points of GDP, and a further 200 billion, of course, of a net balance to be financed, is EUR 100 billion. The decree looks beyond the emergency, drives the country towards the resumption of production and employment. I want to focus on four issues that I consider crucial and fundamental for the future of our country. The pandemic crisis gives us first of all the centrality of work: it is €8.5 billion, 12 in terms of the net balance to be financed that we have used to strengthen social shock absorbers, making them more selective, and to stimulate the recovery of employment with contributory reductions for permanent recruitment and for those who bring workers back from the integration fund. For companies that have used shock absorbers and will not require them we have provided for the exemption of social security contributions to be borne by them for the next four months, by 31 December. In short, restoring centrality to work, promoting good and full employment are useful interventions that go beyond the pandemic crisis and restore centrality and dignity to the extraordinary issue that work represents. Of course, companies employing permanent employees by 31 December are also excluded from paying social security contributions for six months from their employment. Together with the extension of the NASPI, they are very important and qualifying measures of our work. The same issue concerns the economy's supply chain: three billion euros. These actions are certainly more selective than the previous decrees, but tend to address the criticalities of the weaker economic systems, from tourism to agriculture, to small and medium-sized enterprises and together, of course, to the strengthening and moratorium on loans to small and medium-sized enterprises until 31 January, make a significant contribution to growth. I would also like to remind you of interventions in favour of local and regional authorities. I am referring to the necessary contribution that we must make in support of the activities of the Municipalities, because the restart takes place together and is an important part of the decree in our examination. If we add to this the 1.3 billion to the school, with recruitment of personnel and with adequate structures to plan the restart, I believe that we are in the presence of an important measure, useful to restore centrality to our country, to the reconstruction and restart of an economy that needs to restore dignity and credibility to work and enterprise. The measures we have introduced are therefore functional to restart and are a bridge to the new European programming. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u7	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u8	Senator Augussori, if you want to intervene, you should get down to the speakers' desk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u9	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u10	Mr Agussori (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I would like to point out the absence of the government representative.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u11	They've been warned, and I know they're coming fast. However, I suspend the session pending the arrival of the representative of the Government. (The sitting was suspended at 3.16 p.m. and resumed at 3.25 p.m.) I call the rapporteur, Senator Errani.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Senator Missa has already said, in a very difficult situation we have done a job which has basically been based on trying to give Parliament a role; certainly not on everything; certainly we have not changed the structure of the decree-law, but for this work I thank all my colleagues in the Commission, particularly those of the opposition, who have worked patiently with us to seek answers. I repeat that that is not all, and I do not intend in any way to overturn the reasoning in relation to the relationship between majority and opposition, but one step has been taken and I believe that this is very important. On sensitive issues, from tourism to spas and fragile workers, we have reached agreements which have led to common rewording of all the amendments. From this point of view I think it's the right way: I thought it before when we didn't make it, I think it especially for the future and in the first place for the recovery fund. I would very briefly like to frame the decree-law in question, which is in fact in the transition between the emergency, the continuity with the previous measures in order to follow up and continue a series of purely emergent measures (integration fund, as Mr Missa has already said, I do not want to consume even the ten minutes) and, at the same time, the perspective, that is, the budget and the recovery fund. I believe that this is an important element which has enabled us to achieve some sensitive guidelines as well. It is clear that the decisive bet for Italy, not simply for the Government or for the majority but for the country, for all of us is how we will face the turning point that we are obliged to make on the recovery fund and on the budget. To me it seems that there are basically three great challenges: the technological one with the 5G, but also the ability to make a real plan on the infrastructures and, as the emergencies of these hours suggest, a real and extraordinary plan on the maintenance of the territory of our country. It is a great priority that we can see together to work, as well as the other great challenge, the green new deal, that is the ecological transition of the economy; an industrial policy that is deeply marked by this aspect: the fight against the old and new inequalities, perhaps finally thinking - as the Government has announced - of a tax reform, not of punctual interventions that risk to align an already deeply disaligned tax system, or reviewing the social shock absorbers to give them an overall solution. It is necessary to find a way to fully understand that there is not simply employee work, but there are many forms of work, starting from a significant part of VAT-paid workers who risk being the new poverty of this country. In short, we need a qualitative leap, a real debate that we will have in the next few days; we will try to set it up, but this decree-law stands between the emergency and this choice. In this regard, I would like to emphasise something that all the Groups - majority and opposition - have highlighted in the debate in the Commission. There is a need for an extraordinary plan of recruitment in the public administration, in the central and decentralised structure, of specific technical figures and skills that carry forward the recovery plan projects. This is an absolute emergency that - responding also to agendas presented by different groups - I hope that with the recovery project will be realized. I will not take back what was in the decree; I will take up the choices that we have made. I am referring, for example, to the choice on tourism as regards tax credit from 30% to 50% for rents; the spa fund. We are talking about sectors that pay a very high price because of the virus-induced crisis. I think it is important to stress the choice on the fee for streetwalkers and restaurants. This represents oxygen for categories that have paid an important price. Equally important are the measures on culture, i.e. tax credit, which was a proposal made by all the Groups in the Education Commission, or 2 per thousand for cultural associations, the attempt to design some roads that will have to be taken up in the budget law and in the recovery plan projects. I would also like to highlight an intervention for which I would like to thank the Government: a robust intervention on fragile workers, because it is right. Let's talk about the very fragile workers, the most at risk Covid. On this front there is a robust investment that reaches up to just under 300 million. From this point of view, being one of the points on which we have all reached agreement, I think that this distinguishes us for the attention and social culture that all the Groups - I am pleased to say - have taken forward. I would like to stress, on the health front, something that I consider very important. I do not take back the measures contained in the decree-law on health, but I stress the choice on districts and mental health. In this last regard we recalled the need for the Ministry and the Regions to make an extraordinary plan because mental health, also following the emergency Covid, is an emergency in the emergency. We know that it is one of the services that has paid the hardest cuts and I believe that this is an important point. [[Call the president back.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. On the earthquake we did some important things, such as the connection with the earthquake-bonus and, for Abruzzo, we exceeded the overlap between the crater of the earthquake of 2016 and the snow emergency, which, as you know, had no answers. I would like to stress another very important thing, which has not been definitively resolved, but which is why a very significant solution has been put in place, namely the stabilisation fund for those involved in the reconstruction work. A further rule will be needed in the budget to ensure a strategic response, but here, we have made a political commitment with the Government, to which a definitive response can be given. I would also like to stress another element, on which we have worked, namely the fund for autistics. On a proposal from the League, which has seen all the Groups together, an agenda has been reached, which commits the Government to follow-up and continuity to this fund. Finally, there are a lot of interventions on the school and, again, I stress the new things. It has been made clear that the so-called Covid staff runs no risk of dismissal, regardless of lockdowns, specific or not. Resources have also been increased, for the Provinces and the metropolitan cities, for the safety of the roads. We have certainly taken a step forward, for which, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has said its own. I hope that, after this step, we will be able to continue the debate on the budget, without prejudice, of course, to the different positions of the various groups. I still thank all my colleagues, who have worked hard on this solution and I thank the Government, which has shown a real listening ability. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u13	The minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u14	I therefore call the minority rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u15	Mr President, before we move on to the report, I would like to thank the entire Budget Commission, starting with President Pesco, and the majority rapporteurs, Senators Errani and Manca, for the work done in the Commission and for giving us the honour of arms, with reference to the debate, which, at least this time, compared to previous decrees-laws, took place with seriousness and correctness, also thanks to the contributions we have made, which we are part of the opposition. Decree-Law No 104 of 2020, the so-called August Decree, contains measures that, as we all know, are in support of the economy and are necessary following the pandemic, which involved the country. The document, in its original version, consists of 115 articles and more than 100 pages, but they do not have much to do with the previous "mother of all the reforms" and that is the decree simplifications. The decree under consideration uses the additional 25 billion euros of budgetary deviation, which Parliament authorised with a final vote on 29 July of this year, which add to the 20 billion euros of the decree cure Italy and to the 55 billion euros of the decree relaunch. In total, since the outbreak of the Covid emergency, Parliament has authorised a debt of €100 billion, in 2020, of €31 billion, in 2021 and of €35.6 billion, in 2022. We are in the presence of a decree-law that, as we said in the comparison in the Commission, is the exact photocopy of the previous decree-laws: we intervene to buffer the immediate emergency, as it is right that it is, but without having a real prospect of relaunching the country and without investments such as to ensure a future vision to the country system. The August decree defines measures that affect 28 billion euros in terms of net debt. These are higher expenditures of EUR 19.2 billion, while lower revenue is EUR 8.7 billion. The resources found to cover are equal to 2.4 billion euros of lower expenses and higher revenues for only 630 million. The measure basically acts on ten different directives, even if the largest resources are absorbed by labour interventions (for almost 10 billion euros of net balance to be financed), the tax system (6 billion), the Regions and the Municipalities (5.8 billion), the support for the economy (5.6 billion), the emergency (634 million), the health (478 million), the school (400 million), the earthquake (15 million) and the final provisions (212 million). Alongside some positive measures, some of which are openly inspired by opposition proposals previously rejected by the Government, there is no room for the needs of families and businesses. Among the necessary measures, the first is contained in Article 1, which extends the Covid-19 Integration Fund for a further nine weeks, to be used for a period from 13 July 2020 to 31 December 2020. The employer requesting an extension of a further nine weeks is required to pay an extraordinary contribution, an additional one calculated on the basis of the turnover of the first half of 2019 compared to the same period of 2019. As far as tourism is concerned, it should be stressed that we are in the presence of one of the sectors most affected by the emergency. This bill could have been an opportunity to eliminate a measure that turned out to be useless, such as the holiday bonus: it was evident from the summer just spent that the bonus has not found appreciation, neither among tourists, nor at the accommodation facilities; of the 2.4 billion euros allocated to today has been used only 8 percent. Therefore, having found this failure, it would have been appropriate to accept the demands of the industry associations, which wanted a revision of the measure replaced by the establishment of an ad hoc fund to be allocated to companies in crisis. A mention should also be made of Article 57, which is intended for interventions for seismic events. I have heard Mr Errani talk about this aspect, which is basically related to the assumptions that should have been made. But as far as this issue is concerned, in addition to the norm, we need resources, my colleague; unfortunately, every time we hear the issues of seismic events being postponed. For those areas, for those territories, for Central Italy, this is a very serious problem. Even the school has not been sufficiently treated. In the August decree there is an increase of resources for the school of just 70 million euros; these are resources that, while adding to the previous 300 million, risk not being sufficient to have a peaceful school year. The August Decree remains partial and is therefore not sufficient. There is a need for a further number of implementing decrees to make the measures effective, which are otherwise likely to remain on paper alone. The Court of Auditors estimates that the first version of the Decree-Law, excluding amendments, requires at least 28 implementing decrees. In most cases (19 of them), there is no expiry date for issuing them. The implementing decrees to be issued go to conform to others never issued and under the other decrees-laws converted into law in recent months, since the emergency broke out. In total, out of 252 implementing decrees to be issued, they are still missing the call 181. All this translates into blocked resources. Ultimately, this measure lacks immediacy and loses everything in the meandering of bureaucracy. Mr President, I would like to point out that we in the opposition have tried, through some amendments, to block measures which we do not believe are legitimate in this text. I refer, in particular, to the measures provided for in Article 11 (Measures in support of the development and occupation of the Taranto military arsenal), which authorizes the recruitment of 315 non-directive personnel for an indefinite period, with a cost of about 13 million euros for 2020-2022, in a region, Puglia, which has just gone to the vote. Another measure by Minister Franceschini concerns a budget of 4 million euros for 2020 and 16 million euros for 2021 for collaborative assignments of up to 40,000 euros each, for a total of 500 collaborations. I quote, among the various measures, the provision of €75,000 for advice to the Ministry of Economy and Finance for the reorganization of the SACE group. I am closing with the last "chitch" concerning an amendment approved by the Committee on Budgets concerning the International Women's House, on which there has been a battle - and I must admit you colleagues have been very good at this stage in passing the measure, without us noticing it - in order to extinguish the debt that the institution has with Roma Capitale. The International Women's House has therefore been allocated 900,000 euros. Congratulations to the majority, who have succeeded in passing this measure after so many attempts in recent months. I'm glad my colleague Errani is laughing at this. In any context, the measure under consideration lacks measures to ensure infrastructure investment, liquidity for businesses and concrete support for households. The mantra of the Government is to postpone: at the time of the decree cure Italy the proposals for relaunch presented by the minority were rejected, with the promise to insert them in the so-called decree April, then become decree May and finally, decree throw again. During the discussion of the decree relaunch we felt to refer some proposals to the August decree. Today the chorus changes once again and we hear that structural interventions will be made with the European funds of the recovery plan. We hope that something can happen, because this situation is no longer sustainable even in the light of this is happening in recent weeks, and that it is really the good time for our country, because the nation is tired and certainly not the decrees adopted in these months to save our country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u16	I declare the general discussion open. He's enlisted to speak Senator Perosino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u17	Mr President, representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with a mix of notes, some nice, some comics, some serious series. It is clear that we are at the abuse of trust. I hope that the journalistic investigations and that of the newspapers, so-called independent, will carry out checks on the past, if anything in the history of the Republic there has been a period when every bill of conversion of decree-law has arrived in the Assembly with confidence. And on everything that has been done before it is useless to compliment by saying that "we worked" because it tastes like theatre to me. I think that there would be extremes for the "okkupation" of Parliament by oppositions (in this case, "employment" is written with two ks). I have read of an amendment that allocates EUR 900,000 to the International Women's House, a feminist consortium that has not paid rent to the City of Rome. I don't know whether to laugh or cry (I have also spoken of comic notes). Since I like Cetto La Qualunque, I raise and propose double: 1.8 million euros. Deputy Minister, find them! [[Applause]] Mose works. I repeat, despite years of dispute, the Mose works and this is good news. The other good news is that Trump is better and if he wins, as I hope, he will go deeper on certain issues that also concern Italy. The last serious note concerns the flood in Piedmont. Mr. Deputy Minister, we need money and a lot of money. It is a natural and abnormal event, with enormous infrastructure damage and private individuals. I do not think that we can stop and that Piedmont, particularly in the provinces of Cuneo, Biella and Vercelli, requires ready investments and without so many bureaucratic complications. I am now examining some interesting articles in my opinion. Article 35 on the operation "Safe Road" confirms the contingent of the Armed Forces serving at the nerve points until 15 October 2020. I think that the maxi amendment in preparation must correct the expiry date and affix the 15 October 2021.It is a suggestion to the Government and the majority not to waste time with other decrees. Article 39 provides for the reporting of contributions to the Municipalities, Provinces and Metropolitan Cities, as a refreshment of the missed revenue and the increased expenses for the Covid. I challenge anyone and would like to ask some of my colleagues in the majority whether they have understood paragraph 2 of that article. I didn't understand it and would ask for an authentic interpretation. I had proposed with an amendment to abolish paragraphs 2 and 3: once the Government has given the refreshment of the amounts not collected and the higher expenses, it ends there; the report on April 15 in the absence of certain data is a unique and very difficult complication. Article 40 provides for EUR 300 million for part-restoration of the residence tax, with a ministerial decree for the distribution. I call for the decree to be issued by the end of November, so that the relevant sums can be included in the budget of the local authorities that have not received them by this year. Article 49 provides for the allocation of 200 million, for each of the years 2021-2023, for bridges. I had already spoken of bridges in other speeches and floods show that they are a very topical and delicate speech. If we calculate EUR 6 or EUR 7 million per bridge (as I believe it is likely), it would be thirty bridges per year. But in Italy there are thousands of bridges, so you do. Article 64 - and here you can find some funds for bridges - concerns direct and indirect participation in the capital of companies. Who decides discreetly in which enterprise (as I think it has already been done in few cases, to count on the fingers) to participate in the capital? The State took decades to get out of business and came out badly: in the Prodi era the State sold out what it had. Article 65, which provides for the extension of the moratorium for SMEs to 31 January 2021, is a good article. Article 66 is always the same story: capital increases for subsidiaries: we are from the beginning, in my opinion it is money thrown into the well. Article 73 contains premium measures referred to in Article 1, paragraph 290, of this year's budget law: it would be the lottery of receipts and a refund of 3,000 euros for those who use credit cards. I think that these measures are diseducational to the Italian people, who too often waste money on betting. With Article 87 we are at the apotheosis: the establishment of a new airline with total public participation; we rent the company that is going to fail, but will not fail: with an industrial plan, which is public, another 3 billion euros have been allocated, along with the hundreds of millions of previous decrees. I think this is really a historic mistake that we will pay dearly with international figures, disservices and zero results. Article 110 concerns the revaluation of business assets. I think it may be okay in some cases, but I suggest to the Government - which is listening to me and I thank it for that - to listen to the suggestions of some super partes scholars and journalists - or almost - who ask to make a rule that makes the depreciation in the company's financial statements for 2020 optional. I believe it is possible for one year not to make depreciation in a budget and to present an active balance sheet, or close to the asset, at a time of difficulty. In my opinion, and I conclude, there is no overall strategy: there is a bit of everything, thrown there. Let's see what happens, but rain subsidies don't bring benefits and development. Investment must be encouraged, as has been attempted - and I stress - in the simplification decree, but must start. It is not enough to postpone taxes: it is necessary to provide for the abolition of certain taxes for a period of time, and that is why a new development is born. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u18	Senator Bergesio is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u19	Mr President, members of the Government, it is now a sad reality that of the measures of this Executive, which denote a surreal immobilism, which today becomes even more evident in the light of the serious situation that our Country is experiencing for the exceptional wave of bad weather that hit the North-West, compromising the lives of citizens, road, territories, private buildings, businesses and public works. The flood of three days ago, the incessant rains, the beehives of rivers full of debris and blocked by gravel and trunks of trees have brought to their knees the North-West of the country. Piedmont, Valle d'Aosta and Liguria are counting the damage. From a first summary estimate carried out today by Coldiretti, the damages for the devastating effects of bad weather only on agriculture and businesses would amount to 300 million euros; there is talk of as much damage for public works. Thousands of citizens have remained without electricity, telephone and gas, with entire fractions and isolated communities. The provisional budget speaks of at least eight deaths and one missing. It is a very complicated situation, with national and international strategic connections completely out of use, including the state road of the Colle di Tenda and its tunnel, which connects Italy to France, an international artery fundamental for the south of Piedmont. The situation is dramatic everywhere, from the Gesso Valley to the valleys Vermenagna, Tanaro, Valsesia, Cervo, up to the valley Trebbia, where the bridge collapsed. Many are the affected realities, with more than 108 municipalities involved in Piedmont. In these hours the mayors, the local administrators, the men of Civil Protection, the volunteers, the private ones, hundreds of people are working and are at work for the restoration and the safety of the territories. [[Applause]] To all of them, Mr President, we owe our immense thanks and our applause. Special thanks also to the President of the Republic Mattarella, who was an interpreter of national support, calling directly to the Governor of Piedmont yesterday morning. The President of the Count Council, on the other hand, took a little more time: he managed to call him today at noon, three days after the dramatic event I recalled. I do not think he had anything better to do than to bring solidarity to the men and women volunteers who were working, but, above all, to those who suffered the consequences of the dramatic event in Piedmont. [[Applause]] We are faced with a fragility of the North-West already highlighted - in 1994, when there was the flood with dozens of deaths, and in 2016 - where our movement, the Lega-Salvini Premier-Partito Sardo d'Azione, tried to remedy already in this measure, in the August decree, through an amendment on the hydrogeological failure, with the establishment of a fund aimed at the prevention of floods and floods, with a budget of 100 million euros that, however, was not approved - our colleagues of the Budget Commission know well - but accepted as an agenda. We know that the agendas do not matter, but let us treasure them, because the establishment of this fund must be included in the first law to be passed in this House where it is possible to do so. [[Applause]] We do it for the citizens. The fact remains that the Government, flagging a measure of 25 billion euros like the one that we will go to approve today once again with confidence, has not put a cent on such an important issue and the current situation, unfortunately, sees entire territories affected and in absolute difficulty. Scandalous then, Mr President, is the interview - I would also call it shameful - issued today by Minister Costa to the daily newspaper "La Stampa", entitled "The money against the failure is there, but the municipalities do not know how to spend it." We're in the madness of a misguided government that's dumping the mayors. [[Applause]] It can be seen that the Minister has never been a local administrator; I never read his résumé, but, in my opinion, to say something like that, he never even did the city councilman! [[Applause]] Mr Costa, we tell you from this House: the implementing decrees are made by the Minister and the Ministries, not by the mayors, regional councillors or regions. Take on your responsibilities, which are very serious! [[Applause.]] Take out dignity and professionalism and apply it to the Ministry, instead of going to blame people who have no guilt in this case. We need, immediately, a decree declaring the state of calamity and immediate emergency with certain resources and appoint the Presidents of the Region, our governors, as commissioners, in order to speed up the procedures to restore the state of affairs. There are international roads completely unworkable right now. On this, on the cleaning of the riverbeds and on all that concerns the settlement of the torrents, I remind the Minister and the Government that we deposited a provision in April 2018, at the first signature of our colleague Senator Paolo Arrigoni but we have signed it all members of the Lega-Salvini Premier Group, and it is a bill in which the mayors and governors are given the responsibility to establish the emergency procedures for cleaning the hives, a simplification. This measure is firm because the President of the Senate Environment Commission wears the shirt of the same political color as Minister Costa, so this too is completely blocked and this is a shame for our citizens, for our mayors and for the administrators. [[Applause.]] If we want, President, to save the North-West from this drama, we need certain, immediate and concrete answers, as our undersecretary Vannia Gava did, who in 2019 financed the municipalities with 315 million real euros, not words, not butterflies, but real money. [[Applause.]] I address a final invitation to the President of the Council and Minister Costa to come and visit the places, to confront the people who are shoveling, cleaning and working and so, from a serious and concrete confrontation, perhaps comes to mind some more valuable ideas. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u20	Senator Castiello is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u21	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representative of the Government, I would like to focus in particular on a legislative segment of this important package, which concerns the strengthening and expansion of the strategy for the development of internal areas, an issue of great importance not only from the economic point of view, but above all from the social and cultural point of view, also because it concerns a very vast area of the national territory. Internal areas cover 60 percent of the entire national territory, 52 percent of the 8,000 Italian municipalities and 22 percent of the entire population. It is a reference, therefore, of strong socio-economic impact. I refer in particular to Articles 28 and 28-a of the Decree. In recent times, the inland areas have suffered a truly fearful depopulation, feeding mainly the population flow from the Mezzogiorno, which in the last ten years recorded the loss of one million inhabitants and 200,000 graduates, for whose training the State has employed 34 billion euros. This set of measures provided for in Articles 28 and 28-a are a response to that cry of pain - I say it without emphasis - that arises from decades of loneliness in which they have lived the internal areas - attention, not only of the South, but also of the North - which as a whole form, as I said earlier, more than half of the entire national territory. What are the reasons for this: the absence of services. Suffice it to say that a very significant indicator concerns the Health Service. Mountain and hill centres away from the Health Service poles are experiencing a serious difficulty: the journey times for an average health emergency are thirty minutes against the seventeen minutes from the national statistical average. Moreover, broadband serves 30 percent of Italian households in general; 70 percent of Italian households lack broadband and the majority of this 70 percent is in the inland areas of the South and the North. It is therefore not a territorial problem, but a national one. This problem is given a solution which, of course, cannot be exhaustive, but is appreciated insofar as it strongly reverses a tendency towards forgetfulness, abandonment, condemnation and loneliness. Article 28 considerably increases the financial envelope of both the rotation fund provided for in Law No 183 of 1987 and the Development and Cohesion Programming Fund 2014-2020. The provisions provided for in the very laudable amendment 28.0.2 of my colleagues Marilotti, Fenu, Puglia and others, which took shape in Article 28-a, which provides for the establishment of a school fund to combat depopulation. This is important because the law delegates the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economics and Finance. The relevant interministerial decree does not constitute, as the Germans say, a Blankovollmacht, a public prosecutor in white, but lays down very precise criteria that are commendable and appreciable: in particular, the derogation from the closure of schools in mountain, island and peripheral areas and the introduction of forms of premium for teachers operating in mountain or peripheral areas, with at least three years of service. These are two fundamental criteria. Article 28-a is therefore particularly welcome because it contrasts school dispersal and school leaving. I shall conclude, Mr President, with regard to another very important issue, another aspect that needs to be highlighted. The criterion I want to stress is strategic, economic and social policy. I am referring to the networking of territorial cultural values and the associative strategy necessary to combat the handicaps arising from the absence of urbanism and urban pulverization in the territory. Small municipalities are unable to carry out and effectively carry out the various public services except through an associative strategy. This is obvious and then, within the framework of this associative strategy, it is extremely important and necessary to network the cultural values of the territory. I am referring to paleontological, archaeological and figurative resources. The small municipalities have a scattered presence of these tourist-cultural attractors who in themselves, in isolation, have no appeal, a significant effectiveness, but with the networking creates a phenomenon of cultural synergy that necessarily requires an associative strategy. The funds provided for in Article 28 must then be aimed primarily at supporting and encouraging this associative strategy. One last recommendation to the government, if I may, is to make it quick. President, there is a fight against time; according to Istat, if the trend is not reversed 80-85 percent of the municipalities, then more than two thirds, below the 3,000 inhabitants of the hilly and mountain belt of the central-southern Apennine dorsal in 2035-2040 will be deserted. It's Istat's estimates that are really dismaying. Therefore, it is a struggle against time and there is a need for the provisions included in this decree, which are commendable, to be translated by government action as quickly as possible into concrete acts. [[Applause]] In fact, a concrete response enables citizens not to lose confidence, because one thing is to see concrete achievements, another thing is to see abstract promises that are not translated into real acquisitions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u22	Senator Zuliani is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the measure we are debating and voting on, the August Decree, we are having confirmation of the constitutional virus spread by the Conte bis Government, a virus that is hitting one of the main institutions of the State: Parliament. The few resources devoted to the amending activity reserved for the Senate are evidence of the lack of consideration towards the elected parliamentarians, recalling the repeated method of continuous confidence, combined with the delays and problems of majority agreements, which prejudice a reasonable time to be able to evaluate the measures from both branches of Parliament, effectively expelling the parliamentarians from their role. An example of this is the recent election result of the Venetian Regional Council elections, a Caporetto that has overwhelmed some parties. This is evidence of a part of the political fabric and political representatives disconnected from reality, at parliamentary and regional level, busy demonizing the far-sighted administrative policy of Governor Luca Zaia, the result of a continuous confrontation with the territory, with the social fabric, companies, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and farmers. If you continue to persevere in giving birth to measures without listening to the territory, you will give the blow of grace to this country, already experienced also by the economic effects, as well as health, of the pandemic. When you get home, it'll be late. Let's hope that happens as soon as possible. [[Applause]] Just think about what the current government is just thinking (I repeat, it's just thinking but it's not even to think about). It is a shame to have these thoughts: the time reduction of a restaurant at 23. Focusing the same people in a short time is improvisation, inability and bad faith. How can we fail to understand that this increases the risk? Also in these days I have been in contact with people and realities of the national territory, and I do not speak of Veneto but of the South of the country. Even in Sicily the complaint and the finding is that simplification is light years away from what would be a necessary and fundamental sburocratization for our country. We need something different. With the August decree is confirmed the disorganicity of the measures: money dropped with brands that will not lead to a concrete growth. The friends of the South confirm that a cultural and administrative revolution is first and foremost needed; giving them money without proper planning will not lead to anything. The League's amending activity has been reduced to bone and then it is not said that we did not cooperate. Of course, attention must be paid to the South but without discrimination from other parts of the country. Remember that the North wants to be the protagonist again, certainly not without the South. The North must be the locomotive but certainly the other regions must be development train wagons. Moreover, in my view, the system Italy wants to be great again and to do so you have to start by enhancing the world of agriculture in the right way, as I will indicate below. We need to internationalize Made in Italy. The agricultural products, the artifacts, all the excellences that come out of the Italian agricultural world must be brought to the foreign market through the consulates and embassies, which must open sections within them precisely to support, support, be of aid and favour the Italian companies already present in those territories or who want to enter them. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs must become a promoter of economic development from agriculture through its foreign countries. The internationalization of Made in Italy must not be helped only from the economic, financial and fiscal point of view but in a direct way in the foreign territories where it has to spread as much as possible. We need to invest immediately in irrigation and reclamation as a result of climate change, which requires us in particular to focus a great deal of attention on reclamation, guaranteeing the correct flow of water. Just think about what happened in Piedmont this week and in Vaia, in Veneto, last year. These events make us understand that immediately we need investments for hydrogeological prevention, without downloading the blame on the municipalities. [[Applause]] As my colleague, Mr Bergesio, Minister Costa, has already mentioned this, as he has recently done. I'm talking about what I as mayor - on the third term - I saw with my own eyes and touched with my own hands on a board of directors of a reclamation consortium, the one in Verona, where I was a representative of the mayors. The planning is not lacking. The mayors know very well what they want and besides they have public bodies, the reclamation consortia that with the National Association of Italian Bonifiche (ANBI) - and in particular the ANBI Veneto, with which I have had to deal personally - are at the side of the municipalities, are at the side of the mayors because they know how to carry on the planning. The latter is seen in the first person by administrations, municipalities and mayors, but surely on the planning the ANBI, at the national level, will not miss its contribution. The investments, therefore, serve for the cure and against the abandonment of the territory. Too many farmers leave the mountain areas for low incomes or because this government, with Minister Costa and Minister Bellanova, does not want to tackle the problem of damage from wild animals. There is also damage to hydraulic works, which are occurring in many Italian territories and which I can, as I said before, personally touch with hand since my territory of Lower Veronese is not exempt. We then need funding for agricultural mechanization immediately. We have an old car park, too many accidents at work in agriculture and the INAIL also tells us. The problem is not solved by importing 600,000 immigrants. Our agriculture needs new machinery, new technologies, we don't need immigrants to maintain. [[Applause]] They also need interventions right from the start to help the floral sector brought to its knees by lockdown, as well as for the agritourism sector. This year foreign tourists have not arrived and therefore agriculture has lacked much of the demand of the catering sector for both agriculture, livestock and the dairy sector. For these reasons, I hope that the part that concerns the involvement of minority groups will be more and more profitable because in this decree-law there has been nothing at all. Put a hand on the heart and conscience and know how to involve the opposition parliamentarians more. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u24	Senator De Bertoldi is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I could easily start by quoting economic and social realities that are certainly much closer to me. I could remind you, using the words of the President of Confindustria, that we would not want to die in the kingdom of Sussidistan. I could remind you, always referring to President Bonomi of Confindustria, that the August decree provides for fragmented and visionless interventions. I could, therefore, begin by referring to the word of those who represent the world of enterprise in Italy. No, you don't. Today, even my daughter Flaminia, who attends the first year of classical high school, I say that I fully agree with the secretary of the CGIL Landini, who in these hours addresses you of the Government - supported by the Democratic Party and the Movimento 5 Stars - and to the parliamentary majority saying that we must get out of the emerging logic and that we must finally start the recovery. I do not quote the words of the economic world, of the entrepreneurs and of the masters, as many of you define them, but those used in these hours - I never thought I would - from the one who, perhaps, is the furthest from my political vision, that is, from the secretary of the CGIL. Even from the CGIL you are reminded of the concreteness, the need to fail to the emerging logic of subsidies. We are talking about the fifth Covid decree: after the Italian care, liquidity, relaunch and simplification, now we also have the August decree because obviously you no longer had credible names to be able to name it and you simply redone it in the month of its drafting. Colleagues, like all other decrees-laws, is perfectly consequential: we have an additional decree-law that is exactly the logical continuation of operational thinking of your practical inconsistency. It is a decree full of implementing decrees to be implemented. I would like to remind you that Openpolis, a few days ago, quantified in over 70 percent the implementing decrees not implemented to give effectiveness and efficiency to your measures. I'd like to remind you of the failures you've faced and you're constantly meeting with bonuses. Do I need to remind you of the holiday bonus? This is 2.5 billion, of which only 8 percent have been distributed. Do I need to remind you of the babysitter bonus? Of the nearly two billion, not a third was actually used. I remember the one-scooter bonus, yet another brand to some Chinese Asian business that, in fact, sees, compared to 200 million allocated, zero euro distributed to today. [[Applause.]] We are faced with a series of failures based on everything, except on the logic of development. We want to proceed with another mockery of our businesses. We all remember when you introduced credit sanitizations. It was one of the few right things I read in your decrees. That tax credit that had to be 60%, thanks to the fact that you don't even know how to quantify the money you need and that are used and those that aren't needed and aren't used, as I said before, and also thanks to the lack of funds, it has reached 9%. This is your majority, Mr. Undersecretary. Continuing, what are the measures for recovery, what is the courage that did not exist in the decree simplifications? You can speak quietly with leaders of public procurement sectors of any political color - I stress - and they will tell you that you have done nothing to simplify the world of procurement, so even in an emergency like this, even at an extraordinary time like this, you have been able to give answers to those who fail to start procurement in this country. You are prone to a judicial and bureaucratic logic; you are unable, even in an emergency, to give answers to the country. This brings us to the so-called August decree under consideration. Among other things, among all the negativity that I have mentioned and that are part of an overall picture, it is a measure against which it has not been remembered that on 15 October, i.e. now in a few hours, 9 million debitory folders will hang on our entrepreneurs, our small and medium-sized enterprises, our families. You did not remember this, because perhaps, ladies and gentlemen, you were also engaged in amending ideological, political amendments. In this regard, I have absolutely no fear of talking to our fellow citizens about the money that you have given as tips and tips: perhaps the 4 million that you have envisaged in the amendments to the measure under consideration and which you have added to the 4 million that you have already given in the decree I raise to the centres against sexual and gender discrimination; I mean that to get the country back, to restart the economy, to respond to the Covid with two decree-laws you give 8 million to the centres against sexual and gender discrimination; not content with this, you have given 900,000 euros to the International House of Women to repay its debts and, if memory does not deceive me, you have given a million euros to the recovery of men who are perpetrators of violence. For God's sake, I don't mean that they are not also lawful purposes, beyond merit, but these were certainly not the purposes of a decree-law that was to serve to relaunch our country: these are tips that the politics that supports the Government is shamefully elating behind the Italians. [[Applause]] Therefore, trying to synthesize why time is not so much, I would like to ask you what you thought to do for professionals. A table has also been set up with accountants to try to respond to the cry of pain that the category has been addressing to the government for months; well, after so much effort you have approved an amendment that does not grant exactly anything to professionals, who do not care about accountants, which happens to give an answer to some companies. You, in fact, have predicted 0.8% of interest and I remember for those who are not in the sector that 0.8% of deferred tax payments for two months is equivalent to about 5% per annum, so these are almost wear and tear rates for our entrepreneurs and you sell this measure as a great achievement because you do not apply sanctions. Do you realize that? Instead the professionals and the accountants, who were unable to carry out the amount of compliance they had to do, also because of your decree-laws and smart working, had asked for them, for their responsibilities, to provide for all VAT matches subject to the synthetic indices of reliability (ISA) the possibility not to incur sanctions; therefore, you have taken further around the category, as the president of the order of accountants on the Mediaset networks did not later than last night. Mr President, allow me one more minute to conclude, because I would like to refer to the ecobonus. Here again you are frustrating a measure of primary importance. The order of engineers in Turin has written to all the members of the Government to characterize the operational disabilities to which you are submitting them, to summarize the problems that all professionals have in their phase of certification of activities related to ecobonus. I begin to quickly conclude my speech on the points that I would have liked to see in the decree-law in question: the problems of credit that the previous reform of the last legislature highlighted, completely ruining the credit of the territory. I am referring to the credit problems that today see small banks succumb and that will see our companies succumb and the credit capacity of the banks because at the end of the moratorium we will have to review the ratings. In this way, our credit institutions will no longer be able to lend credit to companies. Zero answers in these decree-laws. Let's talk about smart working. Tribunals, Revenue Agency, Technical Offices of the Municipalities, those offices where you have to go for the 110% ecobonus that are not operational thanks to smart working. [[Applause.]] I would also like to mention the problems of building property: evictions for which no compensation has been provided for the owners who are suffering. I remember the unpaid rents for which the owners must, however, continue to pay taxes, because the principle of competence is valid. What are you doing for these real estate owners who can't but also have to pay taxes on fees that haven't been paid? I am talking about the dry coupon on commercial leases which could be a help but which, on the other hand, you did not even want to take into account. In conclusion, President, in fact, unfortunately, I must agree with those who consider this decree-law yet another demonstration of a propaganda policy and unable to give answers to the citizens and entrepreneurs of this country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u26	Senator D'Arienzo is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u27	Mr President, I will address a number of positive aspects of the August Decree-Law concerning the part we have dealt with, especially the infrastructure sector. Before making a full assessment of that part, I would like to reflect on what has just been said, which also covers the powers of the Ministry of Reference of my Commission. I am referring in particular to the tragic events recently taking place in Piedmont and Liguria. I think that, with respect to the words I have heard, it is not necessary to use people's misfortunes to highlight their thoughts, their requests and their proposals. Neighborhood, support, solidarity with those residents who have been tried to put a territory so badly affected back into operation. Therefore, it is not necessary, every time something happens, to claim a primacy, as I have heard in this House, as if others had more at heart the difficulties of our country. It is nonsense, it has always been so and it will continue to be so because, as is known, what it takes to restore those places will be done. There is no doubt that the populations involved will not be left alone. I tell my colleague that with so much emphasis he was screaming at the government's alleged inattention. You don't need to propagandise your demands by leveraging people's difficulties. In fact, the absolute paradox is that, on the one hand, there are words; on the other, there are facts. Under this decree-law we anticipate 3 billion euros from 2030 to 2020-2021 precisely for the security of the territory. Let's bet that colleague will be voting against the August Decree-Law in a moment? Let's bet you will vote against the August Decree-Law within which 600 million euros are destined for bridges, including what some mayors went to inaugurate shortly before it fell? Here's the propaganda. Can you tell me what is the different procedure that was used when he ruled, when the Veneto was hit by the Vaia storm in October 2018? The same identical that there has always been for all the tragedies of this type and that there will also be for the one that hit - ahinoi - Piedmont and Liguria. So you don't need that kind of behavior: Italians know how it works in our country. We try to speed up and make procedures easier and easier, but no Italian, compared to those tragedies, will be left behind. The rapporteur, Mr Manca, said earlier that there are clear prodromes and guidelines for the new European programming within this decree-law. He is perfectly right: that is the real theme, on which we will compare in the near future, starting with the guidelines, and then to the more detailed planning. Inside the decree-law under consideration there are clear guidelines of our political project, in support of all the difficulties, which have been determined, ahinoi, by the pandemic. There is therefore concrete support for maritime workers, for the aviation sector and for local and regional rail transport. There are huge resources for local authorities: I have previously referred to the measure of the advance, from 2030 to 2034 this year and next year, of about EUR 3 billion, but there are other funds for public works of energy efficiency, for sustainable territorial development, for the security of bridges, to which I have already referred, and for the design of public works by local authorities. It is a volume of resources, dictated by the emergency, but that, with absolute clarity, make clear our political will to support every action of the public administrations, in support of the difficulties of the people and, in this case, in some aspects, of our national territory. We have dedicated attention, through the multiannual programme, to enhancing all investments in the safety of schools, roads and public buildings. What about the fund to support all policies in favour of the Po Valley? Here is a specific reference to the promotion of strategies, which aim for better infrastructure, but also for better air quality. There is also support for operators of the scheduled transport of persons, carried out by road through buses. We have considered of everything, from the marine transport of the passengers, with 50 million euros, to the road haulage of the passengers, in support of the renewal of the vehicular park. The time at our disposal is tyrant: they would be to be deepened several other aspects, but I choose three, if I have the possibility and the time. First of all, there is the renewal of the A22 motorway concession. My amendment to this measure was approved, which once again extends the deadline for the expiry of the concession, which expired on 30 April 2014. That amendment was more complete and was considered in part inadmissible: we will evaluate it in the coming weeks, in the course of the next steps. That operation blocks a motorway concession, which is worth about 4.5 billion euros of investments in the territories affected by that infrastructure. I hope this is the last time the extension will be renewed. I say this very clearly. I believe that many of the things that have been said, which prevent the renewal of the concession, are not true, such as the one for which Europe should decide, even if it were private, that they would be trusted in houses or other things. I want resilience and responsibility on the part of all political forces, so that from the next budget law there can be a definitive solution. The Democratic Party is no longer available for further extensions: rather, we are competing in Europe, as required by the law. Secondly, there is my amendment concerning the concession in custody of interregional railways, which go on the railway route from Bologna to Brennero and those from Venice to Trieste, via Udine, as far as the Friuli Region is concerned. It is my amendment on the concession under management of interregional railways. I did not need to be in favour of the referendum on autonomy: this can be done, this is the principle of subsidiarity. We do not need people who tell us that the regions should manage independently; we are demonstrating, as a Democratic Party, that our principle of subsidiarity passes through the laws in force. There is no need for propaganda, things can be done and this proves it. We are convinced that those services can be managed by the regions and we are because the local authorities know better the needs of commuters who insist in those localities. There would be much to say about the Authority that we have established for the Venice lagoon, regarding which Saturday's positive signal on the functioning of the Mose, finally, after so many rubies and after so many contrasts, gave a reason for pride to our country. We hope that it will continue to work; at least we have silenced the mouth of those who said that this work would not work. Mr President, I do conclude and thank you for your kindness. I began by saying that the rapporteur was right: it is true, because this measure has us in that direction; this commitment has us in deploying the huge resources that Europe has given us. We are demonstrating that we can do so and we will do so for the good of Italy. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u28	Senator Binetti is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u29	Mr President, one of the things that the previous Government has to say about [[Brusio)...]] If the government listens.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u30	I have to ask for the kindness to leave the government to listen to the senator who is intervening.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u31	BINETTI (FIBP-UDC). So far, he's never done it. I've checked it out, and you know it. This is one of the most important points of our debate at the moment: the government does not listen. He doesn't listen when we're in the Chamber and he doesn't listen when we talk in other places and in other circumstances. [[Applause]] Of course, most of the speeches are from the opposition, which is fully aware of a number of limitations that these decrees of the President of the Council of Ministers present and tries to expose them to public opinion in some way; but obviously the absent interlocutor - as when playing with the dead in the tressette - is the Government. This does not even allow that effort, concrete and positive, to put the problems to move attention. It's been a while since I've been sitting here and checking things out. That said, I want to get into the middle of the surgery. We are discussing today a decree-law called the August Decree and we are doing it exactly on 5 October; this already shows a delay between the planning of the interventions that was made over two months ago and the evolution of the situation that we are currently experiencing. Perhaps two months ago we came from the hope that a phase of the pandemic had ended in some way; we presented ourselves to the public, also at European level, as the country that before, more and better had managed the situation. Unfortunately, the concatenation of events shows us that, even in Italy, at this moment there is a resumption of the pandemic, with a growing trend - thanking God inferior to what happens in France and Spain, the countries near us, but certainly a growing trend - that involves Italy in a continuous progression. What are the reasons for this trend, for this sort of health pandemic linked to the virus, which, however, drags with it two other issues, which are currently hanging our country considerably? One is the economic one: many of the speakers have referred to this issue, which the Government has so far handled with a predominantly welfare mindset; it has certainly not managed it with the intention, with the commitment and with the decisions necessary to get the economy back on track. If there is a weak link in this whole system, it is cultural poverty, the structural poverty of decisions that should have given real-time oxygen to companies. It is the welfare approach that we confront each other every evening; and I truly say every evening, on the occasion of the news. There is always a company with enlightened entrepreneurs, who are interviewed, who work and have orders that could give work, but who record the lack of Italians available to take charge of these jobs, because very tiring and, secondly, probably not as much remuneration as you could have with the income of citizenship. Every night there is a company that tells us the difficulty it has to find labor. This says a lot about a frightening cultural gap that has been created within this Government and the decisions it takes. A gap to which the sort of liberalization, which we all know, will soon be added on the possibility of dismissal and probably a kind of drying-up (unless we want to invest most of the money in the recovery fund, when it arrives) of what, in a sense, is unemployment benefit, i.e. the unemployment fund. To these two important viruses (one that touches our health and the other the world of work) are being added two more elements of gravity. One is that of the hydrogeological failure, which has been mentioned by many colleagues. We know that in a movement, let's call it this, which has always believed to assume as its trends the green economy and respect for nature, the culture of contrast to the hydrogeological failure runs the risk of becoming a word, good to spend on television and to make announcements, but completely in vain when it takes into account that the famous 181 decrees implementing this orgy of decrees-laws that follow one after the other, including what will be converted today, obviously without our favorable vote. There is a fast succession of decree-laws that do not even in time to be implemented, because there are no implementing measures. If you do not like this, do not worry because tomorrow morning there will be another one; already tonight the Council of Ministers will adopt it. In this logic, which is the festival of structural incompetence, we are condemning the country also to another composite operation that concerns the world of school. It takes a lot of courage to go on television and say that everything is okay for school. You have to hear the teachers who, in front of the new platforms, say that they do not work and that, replaced in order to be perhaps cooler and up-to-date, they end up being too sophisticated. The consequence is that these tools cannot be managed by teachers who, while the school is moving, also have to learn how to operate the new platforms, thus making the work of distance teaching useless even by those who had somehow learned to do so in the previous months. We need to hear about families. Because of the complex operations involving staggered entrances to school, we have parents who just accompany and go back to school. In addition, it has also become difficult to understand what happens when one of the students turns out to be positive; or, as happened a few days ago, what should be done when one of the students says that one of his canoe buddies has turned out to be positive. Today's measure is the so-called August decree that courage should have suggested not to vote, because, as it is, it is almost useless. In fact, we are already overcoming it and, even if we did not, would have provided to dequalify it the decrees implementing it missing, for a new umpteenth fairy tale and a new utopia. Mr President, I shall conclude because there has been a silent dialogue between you and me over the last few minutes. Do you know very well that the government doesn't listen and, therefore, why do we have to talk? Who are we talking to? We can only speak to the country, in the hope that it will listen and make the right decisions. [[Comments.]] But the government never listens unless it's in the living room. I want to say one thing: we hope to have a government, I do not say enlightened and competent, I do not say oriented to do its work and to write its implementing decrees; I do not say that, but that at least it has the humility, when it is in the Chamber, to listen to the colleagues of the opposition. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u32	He's enlisted to speak Senator Briziarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u33	Mr President, we should say that there is no two without three, since there is another 25 billion deviation that we have voted responsibly and that brings the total to over 100 billion. Unfortunately, you listen to us when it comes to voting on the deviation, but you hardly ever listen to us when it comes to deciding how to use resources, except for those arguments that are so obvious that they cannot be denied. Too bad then that the king - and also the "Count," I dare say - is naked and the bazooka is unloaded. Today even the President of the Senate called for the need to say things as they are and what it is necessary to do. At the outset, in the speeches of previous speakers, we have made some examples, and it was impossible not to start, as Mr Bergesio did, from the situation that has arisen in many regions for the disaster caused by the clouds and the bad weather. I am sorry, Mr D'Arienzo, but we need to remember this in this House; it does not allow us to resolve it, but we need to remember it and it is necessary not to be accomplices. You have made us a list of everything that is not necessary, punctual but not acceptable; I add something that does not need to be done: it is useless to say how much will be allocated in 2031 and not to say why something has not been done in the past year, because something is not being done this year and because investment will not be accelerated in a more consistent way than was done with this decree-law. He was provocatively asking, "What would you have done?" Surely we would have approved by now, if we had not been slowed down by a precise political force - and I refer to the 5 Stars - that bill that on April 4, 2018, together with my colleague Arrigoni, as a League we deposited to simplify the cleaning of the riverbed of rivers and streams. It is not the first time, unfortunately, that we have remembered it. Well, that would have been possible if that bill had been scheduled and approved. Then let's do it now. Does it not mean that we approve it literally, for how it was deposited, but can a choral commitment - sometimes we have done so - be made at once and unanimously in this House? Can we schedule that draft law in the Environment Commission, perhaps pair it with others and reach a speedy approval, so that this is really the last time we remember it, since we are all partly responsible if we have not been able to give an answer? There are other amendments that we have tabled, not provocative ones, which were trying to complete, perhaps even with some good ideas. Why find in article 11 of the decree-law in question an important sacrosanct intervention for the arsenal of Taranto and deny it to the arsenal of La Spezia? Is there anything different? [[Applause.]] If it is permissible to intervene, rightly, to accelerate recruitment for the arsenal of Taranto, why not for La Spezia? Why, for example, not for the Army's light weapons maintenance pole in Terni, which requires fundamental recruitment to make it efficient and to reduce the costs that the State bears precisely for the absence of recruitment? I would remind you that this was the commitment that Mr Guerini made not with us, not with the opposition, but for example with Mr Verini, Umbrian Regional Secretary of the PD, just a few weeks ago in answering a question. However - I repeat - the arsenal of Taranto yes, while that of La Spezia and the pole of maintenance of the light weapons of Terni no: these are the discrepancies and injustices that we see, but there are others. All the parliamentary groups, for example, perhaps with different sensitivities, have pointed out that Article 59 is unfair - and cannot be unfair to Parliament and the Government - to say that we help the economic activities of the historical centers of the cities of art with touristic vocation, but only if they are provincial capitals; as if the tens and hundreds of Italian art resorts with touristic vocation that are not provincial capitals do not have the same right because they have not suffered the same damage to the economic activities of all the others. On this, I repeat, amendments have been tabled by all political parties. I should make a ranking, which time doesn't allow me, of damaged municipalities. I just mention one, from where we left on August 14 and with my colleagues Borgonzoni and Centinario we denounced this injustice: I refer to the Municipality of Assisi, which has 28,000 residents, which in some ways is the Italian capital, since it is linked to San Francesco, which we celebrated yesterday. Well, we are talking about a municipality with 1.2 million visitors per year, of which 600,000 are foreigners, i.e. 20 times the number of residents. The criterion that is introduced is that of a number of tourist presences that is three times that of the residents, if it is provincial capital. It is useless, then, as the Prime Minister Conte did yesterday, accompanied by Minister Di Maio, to go to Assisi to make a catwalk, which is alas empty-handed, because the proposal to amend Article 59 was rejected in all the sauces in which it was proposed in the amendments of the League, of Brothers of Italy, of Forza Italia, of the Democratic Party, of Italy Viva, of the Movimento 5 Stars, of Free and Equal: no amendments were accepted. Faced with such issues it is always said that it was right, but there was no resources. To say that there are no resources compared to the 500 million base, when we have EUR 25 billion available and the whole of Parliament is asking for action, it is unjustifiable. [[Applause]] But there is more, and I am going to conclude, Mr President. As far as environmental matters are concerned, we have come to rejoice, not for something good that has been done, but for a mistake that has been corrected. In fact, if there had not been the intervention - signed by all the Groups, but presented at my first signature for the League - to avoid the blocking of the separate collection and the landfill, we would have had everything stopped since 29 September. Indeed, in transposing one of the most important directives on the circular economy, the one for landfilling, which he had expected for almost two years, despite the fact that the State-Regions Conference had reported it and the Environment Commission had unanimously detected the error, the Government has mistaken a letter, recalling Table 5A, instead of Table 5, effectively outlawing the disposal of municipal waste into landfill. If, therefore, we had not corrected this mistake, it would have stopped everything. Will it therefore be important - I say - that in a parliamentary Republic sometimes the Government, as well as having made a mistake as in this case, but also before that, listen a little more to Parliament, especially when all the groups agree to avoid problems arising? I could go on a lot longer. I would just like to make a brief reference to what could have been done and has not been done, but that can be done in the environmental connection, where there is no inadmissibility: let us unlock the closure of the waste cycle once and for all with the use of secondary solid fuel. All groups agree, except one. This is an example, but there would be others. Italy does not deserve this, it does not deserve that a single parliamentary group, especially in environmental matters, blocks all the others. The Italians of today and tomorrow do not deserve it, since the 25 billion bill will also pay our children. You can absolve yourself in this House, but to condemn you will think of history, while to cancel you, elected after election, the citizens are thinking of you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u34	Senator Garavini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, Fabio has been tormented for weeks, distressed by a nagging question: will he be able to guarantee the work of his 30 employees in the future? Will he be able, that is, to avoid the closure of his hairdressing salon for ladies inherited from his father, a piece of history now forty years old in one of the historic districts of Rome? (16.59) (GARAVINI followed). Because the activity goes, yes, forward, but hiccups. This goddamn coronavirus, which is turning people's lives upside down, risks bringing Fabio's company to its knees as well as that of 90,000 other entrepreneurs, who, without government aid, would risk closing down, Covid-19 cause. Mostly, they are companies that, with great sacrifices, are trying to do the impossible to avoid closure. This decree-law represents a further important step towards meeting entrepreneurs like Fabio and facing the dramatic situation in which our country still finds itself. First of all, we allocate real resources, more than 25 billion euros, that bring the total funds allocated by Italy from the beginning of the pandemic to today to 100 billion, money that our country urgently needs to cope with the effects of the crisis triggered by the Covid-19 and finance measures that serve to support the employment and guarantee that liquidity that as Italy Viva we have asked from the beginning of the coronavirus to support those who work and who create work and that therefore helps people, businesses, workers and families and is able to ensure in the short term the hold of our economy. With this measure we restore the jobs act, a measure that we had introduced at the time with the Renzi Government and that has led to results of great impact: an increase in employment of more than 650,000 units in just one and a half year and the decrease of youth unemployment in the same period of six percentage points; all through the decontribution of the enterprises that they assume in a stable way and that is to say that the State, for a certain period, takes charge of the payment of the social security contributions for the new recruits that the companies occupy indefinitely. The State, therefore, helps companies to invest in people, exempting them from paying contributory costs: it is a measure that has been able to revive the economy and it is positive that we are now proposing it again to help companies create new stable and secure jobs. It is also a winning formula for the South, where companies, with this decree, will be able to enjoy a tax reduction of 30 percent in case of new recruitments. It is a turning point for the Mezzogiorno and a way of detaching oneself from assistantism, instead re-launching policies in favour of work and growth, to offer future prospects to the many talents of Southern Italy who have all too often been forced to take the path of emigration. This decree-law allows us, at the same time, to strengthen social protection, especially in favour of families and the most vulnerable, who have come out particularly tested by this pandemic. I think first of all of the temporal extension of the baby sitter bonus, wanted by Minister Bonetti, a measure that helps thousands of parents struggling with the problems caused by coronavirus to combine work and family life more easily, allowing both parents to continue to work thanks to the use of occasional baby sitters, even during complicated months such as these, linked to the risk of infection by coronavirus, in which children can be forced to stay at home, in the impossibility, among other things, of being cared for by grandparents. However, I am also thinking of the introduction of the home bonus, a one-off contribution to women who want to qualify and who now take care of domestic jobs, or the care of their children or sick family members: this is a sum through which thousands of women will have the opportunity to attend a training course and to achieve job qualifications that allow them to return or enter the world of work. Providing a budget of 3 billion for the vocational training of non-occupied women is a strategic choice, because the revival of our country can also go through a greater inclusion of women in the world of work. The decree-law that we are about to convert today provides, in short, a series of measures aimed at promoting the revival of the economy, such as for the activities related to the tourism and catering sector, especially those located in the historical centers, often small and micro enterprises that continue to suffer strongly from the situation linked to the coronavirus. Thanks to the commitment of Minister Bellanova we managed, for example, to provide for the establishment of a catering fund, 600 million euros for contributions to restaurants, pizzerias and trattorias, but also available for canteens, for farmhouses with catering activities and companies that carry out continuous catering for events. The resources lost will have to be spent to buy food absolutely made in Italy: in this way, not only is it helped to support the catering activities that in recent months have suffered huge losses, but also supports the entire agricultural chain of our country, torn by the collapse of consumption in the catering sector. In short, it is a very broad decree-law, with many areas of intervention, in order to address and alleviate the many difficulties in place. However, I would like to highlight three further details, which have been enriched by the measure during the parliamentary process, thanks also to the commitment of Italia Viva. The possibility for taxpayers to dedicate 2 per thousand of their taxes to a cultural association is re-introduced. It is an instrument already experimented in 2016, with the Renzi Government, which had shown great usefulness in identifying alternative resources for the world of art, music, archaeology, cinema and theatre. It is an instrument that, even more so, can be strategic now, at such a difficult stage when the cultural world pays a very high price because of the collapse of tourism and mobility. In order to help overcome these difficulties, we have fought for tax benefits for companies operating in the entire live entertainment sector, a tax credit to the extent of 30% of the expenses incurred: this is an important result, for a sector hard hit by the pandemic. We are also pleased to be able to finally breathe a sigh of relief: the International Women's House will not close. After months of tribulations and anxieties, we can finally reassure the many people who have mobilized to prevent their closure. Thanks to teamwork with other political forces, it was possible to approve an amendment that, through the allocation of appropriate resources, secures the accounts and allows to extinguish the previous debt to Rome Capital. To sum up, the measure we are about to vote on today is a measure of 360 degrees, with aid and impulses: aid for those who, like Fabio, are in particular experiencing difficulties at this stage. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u36	She is registered to speak Senator Faedeli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u37	Mr President, I would like to begin by supporting what Senator D'Arienzo said before me by addressing Senator Bergesio. I believe that in this House it is worthwhile and important on some issues, such as what has been affecting the people of Piedmont and Liguria for three days, not only to be united, but also to urge, with today's sitting, all political forces to show solidarity and an urgent decree from the Government to intervene. This is an element that should always characterize us, beyond the phases and the political parts that each of us covers. On the other hand, coming to the subject and the measure that we have to vote on today, I think it is important what the rapporteurs, whom I particularly thank, have put on the field, with a common awareness of all three. I am referring to the fact that the transformation of the decree-law contains innovations with respect to the origin, on which I will then dwell, but above all it happens in a context in which there is the awareness of everyone who has worked also with the oppositions to try to verify on some contents the space to create a common choice. We are, in fact, at a time when there is no one in Parliament who can ignore the fact that there is still an emergency which has continued, but which is objectively continuing on the ground of work, businesses, households and consumption, which needs these interventions. I believe that for each of us, but above all for those who listen to us and for the Italian people, from businesses to families, to workers and to the world in general, it is enough to go and see the whole of the speeches because it is already the case that the State and this Parliament, by voting for the conversion of the decree-law in question, stand by the side of those who suffer and have no other possibility. I am thinking of extending the integration fund and supporting the various sectors mentioned, which are the most affected by the pandemic. I would also like to stress - because we never say this - that, in addition to its effects, with all that we know and on which this measure intervenes, in order to give support (which, in my opinion, in itself should be evaluated positively by everyone), the pandemic is still in a complicated phase, because it also crosses the situations of other European countries and - I add - globalisation. Sometimes we do not even realize that there is a very strong mismatch for Italy, which is a country of transformation and export, and what this means with respect to the possibility of international marketing, compared to what is happening in the United States of America or even in China or in other European countries. I say this because the context in which we make political and supportive choices can never be neglected in my opinion, and this, from my point of view, gives further strength to the choices we are making and that have been correctly illustrated by the rapporteurs, in particular - I say this not only in a spirit of partisanness, but objectively - by those of majority. I would like to focus on two points in particular, which I believe have been approved, inter alia, by changing the initial text of the decree-law, one of which is important and concerns work. All the majority in the Commission work has worked on these points (i.e. all parties, the Democratic Party, but not only) to support interventions on workers and fragile workers, both for the public and for the private sector. Here it is not only, as was correctly said, that we have the responsibility and we feel the obligation to pay attention in supporting all the fragility with respect to the virus and all those who would be more involved and penalized, until unfortunately perhaps to die (and we know what the different diseases involved are). Can I say in this House that there is an important point of political and cultural innovation? Having dealt with it in this way means giving a signal and making a political choice. With this instrument and this choice we put at the center a topic that in this country for many years has been discussed separately, that is, safety at work, combining it with employment and growth. Here we unify these issues and it is essential to protect the workplace in safety. Look at how much debate we have had in previous years to distinguish more growth, neglecting the safety of people. This is something that, from our point of view, as a Commission, I work, but also as a Democratic Party, is fundamental, as regards the innovation and change that the debate has introduced. They are precisely to present it this way, because it is a further link in the next stages: that of knowing that we are aiming at protecting the rights of people in the workplace, because they are a qualifying part of the elements of competitiveness of the real economy throughout the production system. In this there is also an innovation - I repeat - of political, industrial and labour culture, which I consider to be important. There is a second element that the conversion of this decree-law introduces, beginning to mark a step forward: here I address the senator who spoke before me, inviting her to read the amendments better, before saying that we have made the fund for housewives. We have tabled an amendment, which has been voted on and approved, which establishes a fund for housewives and housewives. Do you know why? Exactly to break a stereotype, according to which only women have to carry out care work. 5.15 p.m. (Faithful follow-up). This is also an element of political and cultural innovation. [[Applause]] , on which we have all worked together, with the Government, also in agreement with the Minister for Equal Opportunities, and which, in my opinion, is another sign of great change. These are signs of direction that we will have to take up again in the following phases, when we will have to face the fundamental axes to create more employment, starting with the female one, breaking the stereotypes and also that concept for which, let's say, women still have another unpaid occupation, which is to make housewives. I think we have done important things, but there is a link that I quickly pick up and from which we must start immediately in the next days in the Chamber, in the Senate and - I hope - also in the House. In this regard, Madam President, I would like to wish Members and Members who have unfortunately been infected by the Covid-19 a great deal of good luck because, from this point of view too, Parliament's work will never stop, either in the Senate or in the House. I believe that there will be a discussion in the Senate and Chamber classrooms that will immediately have to intertwine the priorities and contents that we want to bring in the strategies of implementation of the recovery fund, then in the famous recovery plan. I should like to add a few quick points: we should have the courage to reform the current cash-in-work instruments; we must know that we must focus everything on employability and active labour policies, to create the conditions for investment and productive change, because that is exactly the strongest and most necessary response to the problem of employment, starting with the problem of women. I believe that this is one of the most important elements. In conclusion, Madam President, if you will allow me, even if everyone can express their views, I would like to say to Senator De Bertoldi that making investments in support of places such as the International House of Women, which have been working for years to support and combat violence against women, is not a trade mark, an unacceptable term. It is a productive investment that should not be considered as an alternative to those in support of companies. I just want to remember one thing, from this point of view: the family, social climate, democratic coexistence or within companies, if there are elements of violence and oppression, makes these realities less productive. I'm not just saying that because of a matter of principle. There are those who agree and those who do not, but from the point of view of the sustainability and productivity of companies - you know, just read all the reports - competitiveness is greater where the business climate does not report discrimination, violence and oppression towards women and towards all diversity. Senator De Bertoldi, reasons in this way, when he talks about the important tools that we have started with this measure, which are a first step to support all the means and places of women who make culture and who guarantee support, in this country, to the Italians, to overcome the still many, too many discriminations they suffer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u38	He's enlisted to speak Senator Aimi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u39	Mr President, honourable representative of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when, as everyone knows, it is economically one of the most tragic that Italy has ever lived. Referring to the previous speech, the stereotypes with the housewife and the housewife may also have broken, but I would like to remind you that the figures I have heard of in this House are by no means the actual figures provided for in the measure. I say this because we judge the August decree as a text that has many shadows and few lights. It is a commercial decree and on this very topic it is evident all its lability. We say that because the figure is not 3 billion for housewives and housewives. If we call Pierino from elementary schools to make a short and simple calculation, dividing the amount invested (3 million) by the number of housewives and housewives (7.4 million), we find ourselves having 40 cents for each. This is a commercial, a shame. The measure we are about to vote on has this evil and drags it along. On the other hand, I would like to give a framework and a complement, if I may, of opposing values compared to those that I have seen emerge in the measure, because on the part of the left we are always at the redistribution of income, on the road of Marxist theories. We have seen what has happened in other countries and I believe that I can say, without a subject of denial, that if Carlo Marx, a supporter of certain theories, came back here, he would immediately say: proletarians from all over the world, do not unite, but forgive me, because the theories that have been realized have not led to anything good. I believe that this measure is, unfortunately, a heart attack. I say this because, as a center-right, we start from a different point of view: we defend property, the free market, companies, the entrapment, the risk and those who have the courage to face the market in a situation of extreme difficulty such as the one you are going through. This measure complicates and does not simplify. We have a suffocating bureaucracy for entrepreneurs. I want to announce this, unfortunately, also to traders, craftsmen, freelancers and those who are on the menu of the needs of this Government. We are faced with a particular emergency, in which the caregivers are much more than the assistants, that is, those who should produce income. This is a very difficult situation. Faced with a state of tax police, such as that which we have before us all, and the suffocating weight, as I said, of bureaucracy and taxes, I believe that the road we should have taken was another, that of freedom of enterprise. We should have helped entrepreneurs, not made welfare policies. I would like to remind you of Draghi's interview with the Financial Times in March of this year, I think. It highlighted the need for state debt, so as not to burden individuals and businesses. At the meeting in Rimini he clarified the need to do debt, distinguishing between the good and the bad. From this government, in fact, we have seen a debt for the wheelchairs (so students also play at the car crash, when they are in class) or even for other benefits that have not had any reception from the market. I could still talk about the income of citizenship: in this case too, it is about redistribution of income; we would have used our resources better if we had helped companies and above all had lowered taxes, if we had gone to flat tax, if we had achieved a genuine reform of tax law (in this type of procedure unfortunately there is a reversal of the burden of proof and the ill-capitulate in turn must always demonstrate his honesty) and if we had achieved the liberalisation, in part, of the cash. One of the main laws of the economy is precisely that of the speed of circulation of the currency and, if this is blocked, of course the mechanism of growth is also jammed. I think then of the lowering of taxes, of large investments on the house: why not hypothesize a house floor? At the end of World War II, in addition to helping with the Marshall plan, we also had a great realization in Italy: the famous Fanfani house floor. So I wonder why you don't think about re-launching the building: from there you should start again, not from vacation bonuses or from bonus data to rain that then have no effect. In my opinion, what the company is experiencing right now is a dangerous situation. We are explanting the organs of Italian economy and entrepreneurship at heart. I was told that on the Riviera Romagnola 300 hotels are on sale, important companies that were the connective tissue of our nation, ready to take the flight to other directions. When I come to the conclusion, Mr President, when I hear about bounces in this Chamber too, I get a little smile on my lips and wonder where we bounce from. After three months of closing, it is clear that a bounce was there, but it always depends on where you start. However, in conclusion, I would like to give a warning. Let us be careful - as the politicians say - because the drift we are taking is extremely dangerous: Italy cannot bear a second lockdown. That is the conclusion I would like to make. We pay great attention, because it will happen anything, there may be important interests in the so-called August decree that we could also support; however, businesses, the freelancers, artisans, VAT matches and Italians, who, if they are in poverty, must be assisted, will not be able to support a second lockdown. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u40	She's registered to speak Senator Pucciarelli. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u41	Mr President, today we are about to vote yet another confidence in the Government for the conversion into law of the so-called August Decree, which provides for urgent measures for the support and revival of the economy; yet another decree-law that will bring nothing concrete to the citizens and that will bring behind other implementing decrees that will never arrive and, if they arrive, maybe it will be too late. It is the data that confirms that the measures taken so far have been ineffective to combat the economic crisis due to Covid: the decrease in GDP of 8% makes us understand that they did not support companies and their production. The Istat itself has evidenced that, while the income of the Italians is diminished, the taxes are increased and the bills are splattered to the stars. The patches that you have tried to put on, in many cases, have turned out to be worse than the holes themselves. Try talking to the ordinary people, who has a VAT number or who raises a screen in the morning, and ask them what came from the government to deal with the emergency. They will tell you that only words have arrived. They all paid the taxes, perhaps they anticipated the redundancy fund to the employees; those who had some savings - the sacrifices of a lifetime - wasted it. Someone has not reopened the activity; someone has reopened confidently, but in September has closed its doors, perhaps after forty years of hard work and with the difficulty of being able to relocate. Words, words, words and only words, as a song used to say; Italians, however, are tired of words, they want concrete acts. My region is again in an emergency situation, due to the bad weather these days. We have huge damage, estimated at around 30 million, and victims; this emergency goes in addition to the others, from the collapse of the Morandi bridge to the clouds of late October 2018, to the situation of infrastructure and Covid. Yet, if the emergencies managed by the Region have had quick solutions, those of the central government are late to arrive and very often worsen already critical situations. Your degree of efficiency in finding quick solutions to what happens is one kilometer from my home. I am talking about the bridge of Albiano, which collapsed on 8 April last, where it is evident the race of inertia between the Government, the Region and the Municipality. To date we have not been able to remove a stone from the riverbed; there is not even the slightest idea of a reconstruction project, but three Commissioners have been appointed in the meantime. We have damage to the local economy, inconveniences in travel both for students and for those who have to go to work, in addition to the anguish of the citizens who live on the sides of the river for possible flooding that could happen because of the dam effect for the rubble in the beehive; but, instead of doing a mea culpa for what you have obviously not been able to do in every area (from the infrastructure to the management of the emergency Covid, to the support to the economy and also in the matter of hydrogeological failure), Minister Costa, in an interview to a newspaper, accuses the municipalities of not being able to spend the money for the hydrogeological failure. Dear Minister, mayors are at the forefront of dealing with emergencies and, rather than receiving criticism, should have the support of the Government. [[Applause.]] Returning to the decree-law August, the subject of this discussion, I presented as first signatory an amendment to Article 11 (the one containing measures in support of the development and occupation of the military arsenal of Taranto), amending proposal that provides the same measures also in support of the military arsenal of La Spezia: well, it was declared inadmissible because of the extraneousness of matter. Since Article 11 and amendment are identical in content, I would like to understand how an amendment almost the same as the article to which it refers can be declared inadmissible. It is clear that this majority is arrogant that, without any scrupulousness, rejects the amendments tabled by the opposition solely by political choice and not by content or lack of funds. In addition to depriving the two Chambers of Dignity, we have also made the work of the Commissions useless. The demand for new recruitments in all military arsenals comes from the Chief of Staff of the Navy, which has evidenced as the reduced number of personnel present, combined with the next retirements and the number of years necessary to the formation of new workers, will soon lead to the collapse of the whole system, with the concrete risk of having to externalize what today instead we succeed to realize with our professionalism. As a Defence Commission - I am also addressing President Garavini - a work had been carried out on an assigned act, through which a survey was carried out on the state of all military arsenals as a whole. All had the same criticalities related to the occupation, not only that of Taranto. Everyone has the same dignity. [[Applause]] Well, we have voted on a resolution unanimously, because the Commission has taken note of the state of the arsenals. In November, an agenda was voted, again in the Committee on Defence, in the budgetary phase, which anticipated the same requests as in the resolution. The Commission's work was useless, because, as we have seen, the amendment was rejected. In practice, it is considered only the arsenal of Taranto. It is evident that there is no other explanation, except that linked to the holding of this majority. Perhaps the attention to that arsenal is the result of the negotiations that have taken place for the allocation of Commission Presidencies. This has nothing to do with the good of the nation. I am surprised by the Ligurian colleagues, who have silently accepted this affront to our region, who are part of the Defence Commission and who have deprived their territory of resources for matters purely of convenience and party balance. You would have made it more beautiful to say that the only arsenal that must survive is that of Taranto and that others can die in slow agony. If that is the intention, have at least the decency to free the areas and return them to the city. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u42	He's enlisted to speak Senator Coltorti. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u43	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, citizens, the decree-law that we are about to pass pours another EUR 25 billion into the country system, bringing up to 100 billion the total amount allocated to deal with the economic crisis. The interventions cover many sectors, ranging from work to territorial cohesion, health, school, regions and economic and fiscal measures to support the economy. In this, as in the other decrees approved so far, it emerges overpoweringly that the State exists and supports its citizens. [[Applause]] The interventions in favour of the workers of Air Italy, granted in the article, illustrate well the paradoxes that have been faced in the past the aviation sector. This private company, founded in 2018, never took off and closed its business in February 2020, due to causes independent from the epidemic: simply revenues did not compensate for investments, despite regional public interventions and ultimately state in support of a private company. The private has abandoned the port of call, leaving 1,500 employees on the ground. Immediate is the comparison with Alitalia, which many want to privatise for a long time. All airlines have suffered a heavy backlash and it is clear that, at the moment, no one can do it alone. Many complain that we have spent billions of euros to support Alitalia, but forget that, alongside industry, tourism is one of the country's main sources of revenue and a flag company, which feeds the sector, is indispensable. The budget seems to be at a loss, but there are thousands of businesses scattered throughout the territory. A mere calculation, based on the expenses and losses of an airline, cannot and must not be the only element of assessment. In the case of Air Italy, a good government does not leave 1,500 families on the pavement. Those who advocate the free market could argue that, for a matter of fair competition, private individuals should also benefit from the same facilities as state companies. However, it is forgotten that the opposite is often the case, namely that private companies, low cost companies, receive substantial regional benefits, which are ultimately state-owned, only advertised with less clamor, and often apply to the flag companies tariffs higher than those of low cost, because for the state companies they pay the State. Also the employees of other sectors of the transport, often in hands of private ones, like the marine one, have received an important aid and a meaningful participation is turned also to the companies that take care of local and railway public transport, that it is still difficult to recover, because of the strict constraints imposed from the physical distance. I remember that, during the acute phase of the emergency, both Alitalia and Ferrovie dello Stato guaranteed the essential transport to bring home our fellow citizens and ensure the delivery of medical equipment, which saved so many lives. It is obvious that the State must protect itself in all ways and provide liquidity against the actual decrease in turnover of an undertaking and, in fact, in Chapter I, the contribution to the Integration Fund is provided according to the percentages of reduction in turnover. It is equally obvious that checks are needed. Oppositions complain about the income of citizenship, calling it a welfare measure, but when the pandemic broke out, everyone agreed to ask for the immediate help, calling for controls only a posteriori. The income of citizenship has played a valuable role as a social shock absorber, for millions of nobodys, avoiding street riots, fueled by despair [[Applause]] Do you think that all the self-employed or all the companies to which a contribution has been made have suffered real losses? The INPS and the much vilified President Tridico, whom I thank publicly for his self-denial and competence [[Applause]] , have initiated control procedures, identifying thousands of fraud attempts. Italians should know that the cash improperly paid for the Covid seems to amount to approximately 2.7 billion euros [[Applause]] , while small city income scams cost 4.5 million euros: there is no comparison! Article 46 allocates more than EUR 2.65 billion to municipalities for public works and the security of buildings and territory. Never before, after the bad weather emergency in the North-West, do we realize how essential these measures are. [[Applause]] With regard to the draft law mentioned earlier by Mr Bergesio, it is stressed that interventions cannot be given to the individual municipalities. The river is a delicate ecosystem, which needs careful interventions along the whole stretch. [[Applause]] It is not that, without any preliminary study, a mayor can be delegated; this could have repercussions anywhere. I also respond to Senator Briziarelli, who asks why we didn't make laws last year. I ask why those who are now in opposition have not done so in the previous decades. [[Applause]] For decades the municipalities have been treated as enemies to be demolished, since the municipality is the oldest form of democratic participation: in the municipalities the representatives of the citizens continue to be directly elected by citizenship, which the Movimento 5 Stars continues to consider indispensable for a new electoral law. The strangulation of the municipalities, carried out through the progressive reduction of appropriations, was a deliberate act of the various governments that preceded us. Each of the political groups in this House is a mea culpa, because there are few who have not supported this policy. It was only with the Count Governments that a little oxygen flowed back to the municipalities and local authorities and resources were allocated for the security of public infrastructure and buildings. Under Article 48, metropolitan cities and provinces are also receiving €1,125 million for the energy efficiency of schools and public buildings. Article 49 provides for funding for the safety of existing bridges and viaducts and for the construction of new bridges, in place of unsafe bridges. The roads have been financed, after decades of non-maintenance that have certainly weighed on the health of the citizens. Article 50 simplifies the procedures for urban regeneration, an issue that is extremely dear to Movimento, which has always supported the need to reduce soil consumption and to start the redevelopment of abandoned areas, which in many cities become degraded suburbs. A fund is also set up for the adoption of specific strategies for the reduction of pollution in the Po Valley, as lung cancer affects one in every nine men and one in every thirty-seven women. Lung cancer kills 80 Italians a day; however, the incidence is enormously higher in the Po Valley, as strong industrialization is often lacking in compliance with emission standards. Too often the industry that pollutes is forgiven for creating jobs; citizens often do not realize this, even though they are involved. The Movimento 5 Stars had to arrive to intervene heavily on this situation. [[Applause]] Article 51 provides for investments to secure schools, roads, public buildings, including the removal of electronic barriers. Then we come to Article 57, which again deals with the earthquake areas. Various articles deal with soft mobility, because with this Government we are pushing the accelerator towards a new Italy, a new Europe, with an economy based on renewable energy. We are trying to reduce the impact of CO2 emissions in the atmosphere and stop climate change; this is also an epochal change. We announced revolutions and are implementing them. To block climate change significantly, however, a new model of development is needed, which gives priority to the circular economy, which reduces unnecessary consumption and food waste and moves to reduce economic and social disparities, which create regions with differentiated development speeds even within the country. I believe that politics is a serious matter and, beyond easy demagogies, this Government has issued a series of measures that really tend to simplify bureaucratic and administrative procedures and at the same time put in circulation large amounts for the modernization of the country and the support of businesses and citizens, process that will not cease until the government there will be the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u44	She is registered to speak Senator Rossomando. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much agree with the approach that has been put forward by the rapporteurs and in the many speeches that have been made before me, and so I would like to take it up again. This is an interesting debate that comes after several months in which we are in this very serious health crisis, but also economic and social and it is obvious that we start again from three and not from scratch. I agree with those who have said (I am referring in particular to the rapporteur, Senator Missa) that this is a bridge to the new European programming and, therefore, rightly intervenes on fragile workers and on all those fragility on which we need to intervene for - we say (and this is a point of approach) - to talk seriously about restarting. It is not simply an ethical and moral duty or a conception of our communities; it is a goal that comes from believing that, in order for there to be a restart, it is necessary, especially for the most fragile parts (such as certain categories of workers, such as - at the moment - those in the tourism sector, rather than certain categories of trade, as well as workers suffering from particular pathologies), for there to be a new European programming. We are talking today, even in speeches outside this House, about a lack of sufficient vision of what is ahead of us and of planning. But when we relate to the new European programming, we are dealing not with something that is neutral and indefinite, but with certain points that have been raised following a debate, which has been held at Community level, to which we have contributed and on which there is a change of epochal direction. I am referring to the failure of a model of development based on austerity and individualism and the need for conversion in a number of areas that focus on social cohesion, welfare, the now sufficiently well-known ecological transition, research and - last but not least - the role of women in society. On the other hand, in order to arrive at this type of choice, the vote in favour of those who, like Ursula von der Leyen, have played an apical role, has been given by the forces represented in the European Parliament not by chance, but on the basis of these policy choices. Last but not least, in these choices there is a look at public policies which, again, is a great element of innovation, with an idea of the role in Europe and of what can be achieved from Europe that is different from the idea of shooting a rope in Europe in order to get something that is on a list of expenditures and that is, instead, in an accession and in a contribution to a new world. We know that there are still many difficulties and that in Europe there is a dialogue and a dialogue with even harsh tones; we know that it is still a battle not completely won. Therefore, no to the shooting of the rope and yes to the opportunity to design a new world that sees as strategic elements ecological conversion, digitalization and care. Of course it is easy to understand the care, very important, from the health point of view, but - even here - we need an important change thinking also of the care of the territory and of our communities. This is the idea for which the ecological transition is part of this broad concept of care and is now more than ever absolutely connected and inseparable from the idea of a new industrial policy and a very advanced technology. In essence, we cannot talk about these matters today if we do not marry them with technology. Giving this direction to technology is for one verse and another verse is a challenge. It has also been mentioned, not only in this House today, because it is a subject of public debate with lively dialectical tones, the report and the role of the opposition in relation to the choices of government and what we vote in Parliament. I believe that we must tackle this issue by being up to date: not only in the measure we are debating today and that we will vote, in addition to the others that we will also vote (I think about the stability law), we will have a very important opportunity: in a few days there is the debate on the recovery fund lines. Let us then ensure that this is an opportunity to really confront ourselves on a high and strategic vision in which Parliament claims its centrality because it is able to discuss it because it is up to it, in which the majority demands a direction and precise choices, but in which the cooperation of the opposition lies in confronting these choices by offering a contribution, as I believe it has been done with this measure. This is not a general replacement for institutional grace, which is always good, but which I believe is not enough, given the challenges and responsibilities we have. For example, one thing seems obvious to me: it is not that we simply disagree on flat tax; the fact is that this measure is totally overtaken by events. But it is also clear that fiscal policy must be discussed in a general strategic framework and the remodulation of the tax levy, with choices that use the tax lever. Mr President, I shall conclude on the issue of the International Women's House, because I also feel called into question. I very much agree with what Mrs Fedeli said: it is short-sighted not to attribute to this kind of garrison a central value in social cohesion and for the progress of our communities. They are not only garrisons against violence against women - which would also be a very important subject - but as cultural references of aggregation in our urban fabric. It is shortsighted and - allow me - crude to think that all this has nothing to do with the development of our community and our society. If ever, we think that this is only a very small step compared to a more general picture that does not only concern this specific International House of Women, which is in Rome but which has a national value, so much so that we have presented some proposals for legislation, even at the first signature of my colleague Faithful, aimed at enhancing and supporting these places of women's protection. It is precisely in the historical juncture that we are going through that there is an absolute need for it for the whole community, and of course not just for the protection of women. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u46	He's enlisted to speak Senator Dal Mas. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u47	Mr President, members of the Government, the so-called August Decree is a 25 billion euro maneuver, so we reach 100 billion net debt. This is exactly what Forza Italia and its economic leaders had asked at the beginning of this crisis as a measure that we would be confronted with in order to put in place concrete initiatives. (17.55) (Followed by the MAS). It wasn't possible. You have conducted a policy made up of a succession of decrees - you have now reached 100 billion in debt - because obviously the vision that you had and that you still have has not allowed you to predict these things in time, so much so that today you practically have to intervene with income support measures within 25 billion. The line would be taken for granted: there is not only Tridico's income in question; there are much more serious and much more important situations. The extraordinary integration fund has not yet arrived in a homogeneous way in the country. An absolutely new measure has been introduced, but only for some Italian regions: taxation of advantage only for the South, while the rest of the country is foreign to this affair. The cost of labour and our ability to be competitive in Europe and in the world go into the background, because you think that, with the measures put in place, in Italy it is possible to allow a tax advantage limited to the South. I come from a region that borders two countries of the European Union, where flat tax has existed for a long time and where tax advantage is a necessity to contain relocation. However, what is evidently not in this provision and which receives no advantage is the real estate system, the house system. The problem of the house is central. We have asked and we are strongly asking for the introduction of the dry coupon for commercial leases; you have announced this, there have been more interventions within the majority, but they have dissipated, they have not been seen. We proposed an amendment which met this requirement by telling the owners to reduce the fee against the advantage of reducing the coupon, but you did not accept it. You have maintained an absolutely unacceptable measure from the constitutional point of view, because it is indiscriminate in its application: I am referring to the blocking of eviction procedures, which have nothing to do with the pandemic affair, because they have matured previously. I believe that compared to this at least you should have provided a compensation fund for those owners who supplement the pension or receive the income simply from the lease and cannot receive it because they are stuck for a year and more in the procedures until December. You did not foresee this, but instead consider the possibility of giving up the credit up to 60% in the rental fee for the month of June. Fortunately, I know that the budget committee has been given the opportunity to extend the transfer of credit for hotel rentals until December 2020: that is fine, but this should have been a measure designed for all rentals, but you did not. It cost 500 million euros: within 25 billion you have not been able to conceive this measure, you have not been able to conceive a measure that sets the real estate market in motion, that solves an age-old problem. We had to think about postponing - and Parliament should have done so - the payment of the second instalment of the IMU: it was necessary and it could be brought forward to March next year. The IMU continues to provide the state with a revenue of 22 billion. Since 2012, due to a measure proposed by Professor Monti, we have increased the cadastral coefficients indiscriminately. The result is that on the house, on the real estate, imposes an unprecedented taxation, asphyxiating, which is in fact a blockage to our economy. On taxes on the house, down the real estate values: this was the impoverishment of the Italians, compared to which, with the appropriate measures we have suggested, you could have given oxygen to a sector that is very important as that of real estate, which concerns 90 percent of Italians. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u48	She's enlisted to speak Senator Brollini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u49	Mr President, on the other hand, I would like to highlight some aspects which I consider to be very positive in this measure, as Senator Garavini and other colleagues who have already pointed out before me, particularly in the area of welfare, policies in support of families and, consequently, in support of women, also from the point of view of employment and services. We know, in fact, that in order to start talking about restarting and relaunching the economy it is strategic to start right from women, from their emancipation and from their entry into the world of work, because they are the ones that have certainly suffered the most, in this very long period of lockdown and pandemic, that unfortunately is not yet finished. There are, therefore, important measures; it cannot be said that there is nothing positive about this measure. There are concrete actions, there are economic measures to support those policy areas and to address such a subject as violence against women and children. Unfortunately, from the words of some of my fellow men, it seems to me that this is almost considered a marginal aspect. We know, however, how, unfortunately, cases of violence have increased both on women and children in their own families, also because of this continuing infection from Covid. The measures put in place, therefore, are measures that help and support this aspect, which remains fundamental to us. It certainly does not solve the problems, because we know that structural measures are needed, but in fact in the coming days we will talk about recovery fund and we in Italy Viva hope - we have said so in every way - that as soon as possible we can finally take the important resources of the ESM, especially if there will be an extension of the state of emergency. It is necessary to have a debate - as we have said these days - within Parliament, in the parliamentary classrooms, to take all those resources and spend them well both on recovery funds and on the ESM. The other aspect that I would like to highlight very quickly concerns two amendments by Italy Viva which have been adopted in this decree-law, about which Senator Garavini spoke well before and which concern my Commission, aimed at finally paying attention and encouraging the resumption of a sector that has suffered greatly and which has been totally neglected, which is tourism and culture. In this sense, the two amendments that have been adopted begin to put the cultural heritage of which this country is rich at the centre. And when we talk about culture we also talk about economic recovery because we are talking about an extraordinary and unique heritage that Italy has in the world. In this respect, two amendments have been adopted, which I consider to be very important. The first is tax credit, which means that tax credit is 30% of the costs incurred by companies carrying out activities related to the entire live entertainment sector. This proposal aims precisely at giving concrete support to this sector which has been severely affected by the pandemic. As for the 2 per thousand, it is a rule that had been launched in the budget law of 2016 by the Renzi government and that today, thanks to the amendment of Italia Viva, was approved within this measure. This means a truly unique opportunity to make a contribution to those involved in art, music, archaeology, books, cinema and theatre, and we know how important it is to talk about these issues. Think of the question, precisely, of closed cinemas and theatres. But today it is necessary - I say this at the end of this speech and after reading some statements in recent agencies - also to resume in hand the theme of sport and capacity in the palaces and stadiums, which is not a secondary theme, because sport belongs to the economy and entrepreneurship of this country. I would like to conclude by saying that we are beginning to talk about subjects and areas that have suffered too much and to which this measure is beginning to give concrete answers. We hope that in the next few days we can enter into the full concrete action of relaunching this country with the discussion on the recovery fund and then the much-desired for Italy alive MES. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u50	He's enlisted to speak Senator Floris. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u51	Mr President, Mr Secretary-General, the latest figures on the number of employment reports show the seriousness of the situation in Italy. They are also indicative of economic policies and there are too many rules adopted so far by the Government that stiffen the labour market: from the so-called dignity decree to the citizenship income, which lacks the objective of bringing to work those who perceive it. The so-called August Decree unfortunately goes in the same direction today, i.e. assistantism, but the so-called active policies are lacking. More than a million jobs lost, a figure that without a clear reversal of trend, when the redundancies end, could also increase. Further resources are being allocated (I am sorry that Minister Catalfo is missing, with whom we have repeatedly talked about the income of citizenship): about 8.7 billion for work and social shock absorbers, bringing the appropriations in this area to more than 36 billion in total. The 30% reduction in pension contributions for the less-favoured areas of the Mezzogiorno for the period October-December 2020 is actually a measure that leaves great concern, because these are purely welfare policies, which are waiting for the green light from the European Commission. About one billion costs to support contributory reductions which continue in the wake of policies which have been decoupled from a structural growth plan in the Mezzogiorno, because the contributory reductions were total and not limited to 30% in the Mezzogiorno and were in force until 1994, for about twenty-five years, and were then rejected precisely by the European Union which promoted an infringement procedure against Italy. In those twenty-five years, however, there was no increase in employment; therefore, it is not a new measure and is not even historic, as has been said. Nothing to try to bridge the chronic infrastructural gap of the Mezzogiorno, the islands and even more of Sardinia, which serves, in addition to territorial discontinuity, also the extra-cost of energy. For a maximum of eighteen weeks, the ordinary cash benefits, the ordinary allowance and the supplementary fund are extended for a maximum of 18 weeks, but it must be remembered that the management of the supplementary fund has left hundreds of thousands of workers without salary and without cheques for months, also because of the complex bureaucratic procedures envisaged. More than 100,000 workers are missing. It should also be borne in mind that 70% of the cash benefits paid are still to be reimbursed to the employer who has advanced them to the workers. The decree contains the additional measure for companies which now employ permanent employees, in the presence of an increase in net employment, which provides for the exclusion of the payment of social security contributions for a maximum of six months from the recruitment until 31 December. In short, another temporary and non-solving measure. How, at this unprecedented time of crisis, can companies be expected to assume indefinitely? The first concern the government should have is to remove workers from welfare and return them to the dignity of having a job and a salary. The way of individual dismissal procedures, as well as collective dismissal procedures are suspended, remains foreclosed. It is worth remembering that there are about 400,000 redundancies still blocked and it must be noted that the workplace cannot be maintained by law, but by providing concrete measures to ensure that the resumption of economic activity produces the reintegration of workers, but above all to allow economic activity to continue in safety with the protections and precautions necessary, avoiding new closures. My colleague Aimi said we can't afford a second lockdown. That's absolutely true. On the other hand, there is also the provision that fixed-term employment contracts may be renewed or extended for a maximum period of 12 months, subject to the overall limit of 24 months and for one time only. We have always opposed the limitation of fixed-term contracts and the elimination of vouchers, since the so-called Dignity Decree. The time and practical application of those provisions, especially in this period of crisis, has proved us right. We call for greater liberalisation of the labour market, an ever-increasing role for continuing training in order to get workers to enter or re-enter the roles for which they are trained. Our positions are supported by Unioncamere-ANPAL's data that record the difficulty of finding suitable professional figures with percentages ranging from 20% for the less qualified figures to 40% for those in possession of more training. We strongly support the role of continuing training which must help to completely redesign the dynamics of the labour market. Too little has been invested in training for which the world of enterprise must be involved. We see that for citizenship income there are eight billion in 2020 and 8.3 billion in 2021, i.e. twelve times more than the so-called new skills fund. Citizenship income has failed precisely in order to create jobs through matching between supply and demand in employment centres, so much so that only one in six of those ready to work has signed up to an employment relationship. While we believe that, in any case, targeted measures to combat poverty should remain. In short this is a decree with many resources for the topics of the job, but with effects that unfortunately will be limited in time and that lack the opportunity to introduce structural measures in order to make more dynamic the labour market, market that certainly passes through a growth of the economy driven by the increase of the infrastructures of the Country for which the economic decrees of the Government, in beyond six months, have not predicted anything. We continue to think that welfare policies are useful in reducing social hardship and poverty while the enterprise is the only one capable of creating jobs in which the role of regulation and bargaining must only have the aim of making it more dynamic. In this regard and with regard to the lack of infrastructure, Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to remind you that I have tabled an amendment to the Commission with regard to Sardinia. This amendment is for the Mezzogiorno, but for Sardinia in particular, which still serves the absence of methane gas which could reduce the cost of energy for all Sardinian citizens, but above all make our island more competitive. It would certainly be a cleaner source of energy in a decarbonisation process due to the substitution of coal with methane gas waiting to have in Sardinia also, as a leading region, the production of hydrogen energy. By creating the infrastructure, it would be possible for workers currently in the Cassa Integrazione to return to their occupation, thus recovering the dignity that they have probably lost for the many years of Cassa Integrazione. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u52	Senator Ferrero is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure completes the series that composes the fateful 100 billion debt that we are placing on the market to the sound of treasury bills. Attention! Speaking to many people, I have understood that many people believe that this money already comes from Europe, but the path of Europe's fantasies is only just beginning and it is difficult to predict when and if the first money will come. For now, we're doing it ourselves. I'm closing the parenthesis. These 100 billion, of which today we are destined the last 25, after 20 of the Italian cure and 55 of the relaunch, will weigh heavily on the future generations and for this reason, for more reason, they had to be spent with special care and, in a first phase, in emergency, but then with a second phase of organic vision of the future. Well, what I denounced in my speech on the decree I relaunch continue to denounce here in this August decree: there is no vision. I would like to give a few examples: Article 21 provides for the fund for the personal training of housewives. Does this seem to you to be a measure of urgency and revival? [[Applause.]] Article 24 provides for urgent measures for the protection of cultural heritage and entertainment. There is nothing to say at first glance seeing the title, but inside we find only assumptions and collaborations of the Ministry of Cultural Heritage. That's all I'm gonna say. Article 43 resolves a regional dispute, specifically with the Campania Region. Do you realize that? A state law resolves a regional dispute. [[Applause.]] It could then continue. Already in the article there are particularistic measures which have nothing to do with recovery. We now come to the long period of amendment in which the opposition has maintained responsible and constructive behaviour. In this regard, I would like to thank the two rapporteurs, Mr Errani and Mr Missa, to whom I acknowledge the efforts of mediation between the Government and oppositions, between the majority and the minority, but now we have to look ourselves in the eye and tell ourselves everything: this is not the way to proceed. We were assured that some important topics would be dealt with by transposing our amendments into shared packages. For the analysis of these packages we would have been given a reasonable time to examine them and, instead, apart from four packages arrived the evening before the fateful night, everything arrived at the beginning of the session, if not during the sitting at night. Apart from the difficulty of reading and including hundreds of new amendments, ladies and gentlemen, explain why we must always be reduced to the night. I don't understand that. [[Applause.]] A saying suggested by a friend - it is a saying of popular wisdom - reads: the work done at night is seen during the day. That's not good. In fact, the work is messy, confusing and managed with great difficulty by the offices, forced to an effort without sense. I would like to extend special thanks to them too. In fact, in the report I read that: The amendments which were not expressly put to the vote, or expressly withdrawn or converted into agendas, were considered to be technically rejected, if tabled by minority groups. In my opinion and in the Group to which I belong in this sentence there is a technicality of too much. Those amendments that were reported were assessed by the Government and the majority and were rejected politically. [[Applause]] What proposals have been rejected? As Mr Bergesio rightly said, Piedmont is now more than ever on its knees. Know that an indicative and non-exhaustive list of municipalities in emergency for calamitous events has been drawn up in the instructions of the Revenue Agency for the non-refundable contribution April on April. Well, Piedmont (with other areas of Italy) has been forgotten: it is, that is, an error of the Revenue Agency. Amendment 13.06 would have solved the issue without further burdens, but it was rejected, except then to approve Amendment 58.0.13, which was limited to the mountain municipalities and erroneously predicting their honesty. This is what happened during the night work. Amendment 77.1 was intended to incorporate at least part of the proposals of the Tourist League, on the other hand, it reduced to a rental tax credit, extended to the rent of a farm, therefore aimed mainly at large hotel facilities (no comment on this). There is nothing for the little ones, no overview of accommodation facilities, which are not only large hotels but also bed and breakfast farmhouses, campsites, villages. With Amendment 99.3 (text 2) we wanted to propose the suspension of the sending of all the debitory folders, whose departure - as you know - is scheduled for mid-October; it is not a fiscal peace but we wanted to block this departure. Italians already have many problems, let's let them live, let's not tartaxiamoli with folders from which we often have to defend ourselves. This amendment has also been rejected, so the charts will start. Compared to some proposals, we have turned our amendments into agendas, in the hope that something will be incorporated into the budget law, such as the extension of the bonus facades, which is not consistent with the 110% bonus deadline. A little logic is needed: I don't embellish the façade first and then destroy it to make the coat; in the real world it works exactly the opposite. Another proposal was as follows: if the companies close and the sheds remain empty and empty, they are no longer worth anything and collapse to pieces, we want to predict the bonus of 110 percent also for the reclamations of the covers in eternit? It's also about security. This proposal was imagined for the sheds, but also for the agriculture sector; it was an amendment proposed by Mr Bergesio in particular with regard to agriculture. Then there is the whole vision of the League on taxation: I think about flat tax at least for the activities just started and the mini-Ires, but unfortunately the majority is deaf to all these concepts. In short, do we want to revive the economy or do you just want to fill your mouth with bounces that will never be there (these are the words of Minister Gualtieri)? Colleagues, the economy does not start again with the implementation of the centers for the recovery of men perpetrators of violence and not even giving 900,000 euros for the International House of Women in Rome to heal a debt with Rome Capital. It is time to stop doing politics to please this or that little interest. We are in an economic emergency; ladies and gentlemen, we must put ourselves in the head that we must make politics for Italy and for Italians. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u54	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u55	Mr President, we are dealing with yet another decree-law containing many things. It is a text that includes the most heterogeneous measures: containers rich in content that are mostly promises, headlines with journalistic impact, that predict billions, millions never seen coming and that will certainly be the panacea of all our problems. Moreover, our - or rather, your - President of the Council also came to Umbria, to the land of Francis, and he also began with his "encyclical." I don't know if you've listened to him; he's dealt with highly existential issues at the expense of people's everyday problems: We rediscover the value of the essential, of what is invisible to the eyes but decisive for existence (...) This pandemic has made us aware of the value of the relationship (...) We have understood that we are all brothers (...) We are drawing up a national plan for a regenerated country. A nice slap in the face of the real problems of Italians, the problems that every day Italians encounter, from cassintegrati to traders to operators of the thousand economic activities that stand on their knees. Not to mention the earthquakes of the craters of Umbria, Marche, Lazio, Abruzzo, to which they are destined in this measure 15 million euros. A problem that we have been dragging for years now; a reconstruction that not only has not started but is not even on the horizon, is not even anticipated; there are still the rubble. Colleagues, if each of us went around the earthquake zones he would realize how much the words of this "lawyer of the people" who now posing as Pontiff, have been a slap in the face of the Umbrians, the earthquakes, the Italians. Colleagues, as I deal with health - I am a member of the Health and Health Commission and you know that I often speak in this House - I want to deal with the famous measure of waiting lists. You know that there is a huge problem, that was ante Covid, that is the enormous amount of diagnostic treatments and not only, even health care, in dire delay. Think how serious it can be to wait six months for an oncology tac; how dramatic it can be for that person, who obviously raises the necessary money and then goes to take the exam from the private obviously, since the skin is at stake. Think of all the treatments that we have suspended: surgical ones, cancers, all those for the vast people of heart disease. With Covid we have accumulated a huge series of serious delays, which will cause therapeutic damage - now this has been highlighted by many of the scientific community - that we will drag for years. As announced by Minister Hope in the Chamber, we finally set a substantial figure, a half billion euros round, for the benefit of the Regions to absorb the waiting lists. Well, first problem: the measure lasts until 31 December 2020. If you talk to a child, perhaps the son of some doctor, he will tell you that by December 31, 2020 of this half billion, if that's okay, the Regions will be able to spend 20, 25 or 30%, because it is not conceivable that what has not been done in years, in a situation further aggravated by Covid, is disposed of in three months. It doesn't exist. It's meaningless. It's backwards. It cannot be, as the Minister says separately (which on official occasions behaves like the fourth Pontiff of Italy: in fact we know that we have two Popes, the third Pontiff is Count and the fourth is Hope; moreover, as the name says, he is the man of hope and therefore it seems absolutely right for him to pontificate, on public occasions), that if he established a longer duration the Regions would not spend. What does that mean? It is not possible to reason in these terms. The regions don't even get their hands on it, because you can't keep saying that we'll see if it extends and what happens. It is not possible to think that half a billion euros, for the absorption of waiting lists, a problem that goes back over the years, we absorb it in three months. It's an insult to logic and intelligence. Unfortunately, it is not enough, because evil always comes as a couple. You have therefore drawn up a document for the distribution of this money and in the same measure - I am sorry that colleagues from my Commission, apart from the President, are not present in this House - in the table. You show us how it should be distributed, according to logic and common sense, that is, by distributing to the regions to the extent of the backwardness they have accumulated over time. Then there is a table B, in which practically this concept is reversed and you write it also in bold, in the part where it is said that the table B differs from that resulting from the sums of Annex A, for the choice to share the total sums on the basis of the access quotas, regardless of the incidence of the pandemic from Covid-19. But how? This is a measure that attacks the emergency from Covid-19 and yet distributes the money - and you write it - regardless of the incidence of the pandemic from Covid-19 and the consequent reductions in benefits related to it. What is this? In the comparison between Table A and Table B, remove then 12 million euros to Lombardy and add 9 million euros to Campania, 12 million euros to Lazio and 10 million euros to Sicily; then remove 8 million euros to Veneto and 5 million euros to Piedmont. But where was the emergency, excuse me? In Sicily and Campania? In recent days has come out a table of the National Authority anticorruption (ANAC) - not of Senator Zaffini - that has explained how much each Region has spent for every positive. The vicious Lombardy - I am not from Lombardy and I am not from the Northern League, but from the Brothers of Italy - has spent 5,000 euros for every positive, while Campania knows how much it has spent? He spent 76,000 euros! And you give her more money. You remove the money from the regions that experienced the emergency and add it to the regions that the emergency did not even see it (the one of lockdown; then maybe something will change now). Frankly everything has a limit, everything can be objected to with respect to common sense. We have prepared two amendments, one on the deadline, which we have turned into an agenda, and one on the famous table. We have proposed, instead of Table B, to adopt Table A. You wrote it; you did not hide it from us, you are not even good and sincere: stay here. The table A takes into account backwardness, suspended performance, surgery, diagnostics: adopt Table A, for once do things well. Then there will be the problem of spending these money, but do not insult common sense, do not insult those who really had to handle the emergency, those who filled the televisions and newspapers with images that we all printed in the head. This is an affront to common sense. This is to make politics upside down and it is not possible for you to go all the way, without yourself realizing it and without appealing to your common sense and your ability to enter into the substance of the measures and to judge them. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u56	Senator Cucca is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u57	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, I am speaking very briefly precisely to draw attention to an issue that was already proposed by Senator Floris a moment ago. I do so with great bitterness, because I must observe that, beyond the fine words that have been said a thousand times in Sardinia, during the visits of political representatives - often of government and of any formation - even in the past, the commitments that are made on the island regularly then are not maintained, indeed are put in oblivion. The bitterness comes from the rejection of an amendment that I had tabled, for the umpteenth time, on the possibility of realizing the methane network in Sardinia. Once again, with ludicrous motives, which are ridiculous, and in fact clumsily concealing ideological problems, that amendment has been rejected. What is the result of this fact? Sardinia is the only region in which methane is not there. The absence of methane obviously brings very serious consequences on the economy of Sardinia, as very high costs, much higher than those present in the rest of Italy; to this we associate the situation that we live because of the insularity and the fact that the territorial continuity, for carelessness, once again, and for little attention to the problems of the island, is not applied. All this has devastating effects on the island economy, especially in this period, which is not only related to the Covid-19 emergency. Of course, I am disturbed to read in a newspaper that, according to the Secretary-General of Hydrogen Europe, Italy has the potential to become the European hydrogen hub in the coming decades because it is equipped with the largest gas network on the continent. This means that we are going to use the energy derived from hydrogen, but that Sardinia will also be cut off from this passage because, in an absolutely incomprehensible way, it is not possible to realize the net for the distribution of methane. It is better to turn around the streets those "bombs" that are the tanks containing methane that circulate in Sardinia (let's imagine that accident could cause the explosion of a tank loaded with gas), rather than create a net that has become absolutely indispensable. In this sense I wonder if this Government too remembers that Sardinia is part of Italy, like all other regions. I have to say that I am basic, because today we also have the fact that there is no attention and that flights from Olbia are being reduced from three to two. The last flight leaves at 11 a.m. The government hasn't said a word. I look forward to seeing concrete actions to protect my island and that, in some way, we move because this cannot go on. I must say that on this occasion I had even thought of not voting for trust, but I do not do so out of respect for my colleagues and for the indications of the Group, to which I will stick, and also out of respect for myself, because I agree with the action that this Government is taking but I do not agree with the method. We are moving forward with trusts, even in an understandable way, but there is no comparison. I have no chance, except this, of screaming the reasons of my island, as my duty as a representative of the territory. But this can't go on forever. I ask the esteemed representatives of the government who are present today (and really when I say "valued" I am deeply convinced) to look at this island, because you cannot go on in this way. We are experiencing a situation of extreme difficulty: unemployment is skyrocketing and we cannot do anything but try to match up with the other regions, however. Allow us. I look forward to serious signs in the next measures, because it is already the third time that this issue is not taken into consideration, which is very important and relevant to the economy of Sardinia. I look forward to serious signals from the government and a specific commitment, because otherwise I will have to make decisions very reluctantly. As I represent the territory that elected me, I will be forced to make decisions that I do not want to make. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u58	Senator Gallone is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u59	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, today, 5 October, when we are going to vote for yet another confidence in the conversion into law of the August Decree (and that already says a lot), I would like to speak, in the eyes, with the real interlocutor to whom each of us in this House and from the benches of the Government should address: the young people. My speech today is for you, young people. I wish you were here now to hear your voice and put me in your shoes as "differently young" who never ceases to dream and believe in a better world that passes, for example, from a better school. By the way, today is the World Teachers' Day that, instead of being at the top of the social pyramid, are still begging competitions to be stabilized, with school leaders to whom we should make a monument for how they can compensate for ministerial shortcomings. I would remind you that EUR 2 billion has been allocated for the benches and only a few dozen million for school construction. Young people, claim the freedom of educational choice that, first of all, is your right. Dear young people, I hear and listen to you, because every choice, every decision and every line of direction taken today, in this particular historical moment, will condition your life. It's time for you to get involved directly, because quotes and pats on your shoulders, I don't think you're gonna do anything about it. The answers to Fridays for future can not be only the dangerous electric scooters without rules, while the bills increase in an unsustainable way. There is no concrete and structural plan to combat the hydrogeological failure that destroys territories and takes lives. Let's all see what is happening today in Lombardy, Piedmont and Liguria. What do we want to do with Italy? A pile of rubble? Let us also blame the mayors, not content; and fortunately our amendment has passed on the recruitment of municipal secretaries. Young people, claim the right not to have to abandon your territories because you may live in the mountains or in a small Municipality of Salento or Sicily; ask with us, loudly, the areas with special economy to have tax reductions and simplifications to stay at home. Fortunately, our proposal to promote youth entrepreneurship under 30 has been accepted, which allows us to look to the future and which derives from an even more composite bill, at the first signature of Senator Anna Maria Bernini but signed by the whole Forza Italia Group. In fact, not only does Covid get sick the man. "Freedom is participation" sang Gaber, and without participation we will be forced to suffer the choices, because today's choices will determine for our country, dear young people, being beyond the border between being free and protagonists or being subjects. It is a thin line and time and emergency do not play in favor. Let's open an emergency parenthesis. The emergency applies when it is convenient; it does not apply, for example, when we talk about enemy number one at this time of economic crisis: taxes. The emergency is no longer such when it comes to tax collection and deadlines, which remain blocked with an Revenue Agency which is perhaps the only public office that works and works for the ordinary. Accountants and professionals who see themselves reducing or zeroing the few revenue from tax deadlines are well aware of this. This is a political use of Covid. Fortunately, we have intervened to help some categories, to walkers, to spas, while other sectors die. Shall we talk about the dry coupon for commercial rents? But what's the problem with introducing it? At least the tax credit is extended. I have already said: this government offers a glass of water instead of repairing the aqueduct. Dear young people, it's time... [[The microphone is automatically switched off.]] Mr President, just give me a minute and a half to finish the speech. It is the time of boldness and commitment. Tomorrow there will be insufficient doctors; tomorrow there will be no work for everyone. What are we gonna do? We make ourselves ridiculous by allocating 50 cents per head for the formation of housewives and housewives (which today is still the meaning of kitchen utensils). But then you wouldn't be able to re-introduce the domestic economy to school first? Dear young people, claim equal opportunities against one is worth a senseless one, instead valorizing the differences: the paradigm must be reversed. Equal opportunities for all does not mean leveling everything down but, on the contrary, raising the possibility of everyone giving everyone access to the best services. I think of the Lombardy Region, the dowry school, the integrated system of health; many are doing to bring down the Lombardy Region by acting like that husband who... in short, you know. Without a project, a couple bursts; without a project, a city becomes a cluster of buildings; without a project, a nation survives a wheel of choices decided for other reasons. Dear young people, let us hear you, for not only does Covid die a nation. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u60	She is registered to speak Senator Testor. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u61	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Government is preparing to put yet another confidence in the so-called August decree of 25 billion euros. There are three budgetary deviations that have occurred so far: 25 billion euros on the Italian care provision; 55 billion with the decree-law relaunch; and now the 25 billion of the decree-law in question. A total of 105 billion net debt, equal to 6% of GDP: an amount that, in total, corresponds to the last five budgetary manoeuvres. It is a debt that sees very few structural reforms and many temporary measures, important yes to cope with the emergency, but little influential to give a real boost to the country, which - it is before everyone's eyes - runs out after a lockdown following which many companies have no longer seen the light and shops and hotels have been closed. Little far-sighted and much hopefully I'll be okay. Even arming himself behind the constant demands of trust suggests that this government is shaky at every opportunity of confrontation. A certainty, unfortunately: the inability to give concrete answers. There are 420,000 workers still waiting for the integration fund and about 15,000 companies still waiting. I wish President Tridico would look into finding a fast delivery system, as was the case with the increase in his salary. There is uncertainty and, unfortunately, the Government does not listen to our proposals and thus does not help the country. Let us think of tourism: 1.3 million workers in the sector are at risk, which is worth 13% of national GDP and has been among the most affected by the pandemic. We had asked for grants to cope with the crisis that has been massively suffered by the whole sector and that few answers have been received. We asked for an extension of the use of vouchers, both for the tourism sector and for agriculture: Deaf. Think about how we will face the winter season in the mountains: so far we do not know the Government's intentions on the lifts, while we do not know if there will be the flow of foreigners: I remember that there are places that usually work with 80 percent of tourists from abroad. Without certain answers how can investment and recruitment be planned? In addition to the lack of liquidity, there is also a lack of answers in concrete instruments, but they are useful at this time to overcome situations of discomfort. In a condition of uncertainty could vouchers not be considered a useful tool to fill the gap at the time of need? Was it not better to invest to generate jobs to support businesses? Are you convinced that the income of citizenship is the panacea to the problems of Italians? Whether it is a flop is now before everyone's eyes, even the Prime Minister Conte has noticed it: the income of citizenship is a welfare measure without planning. Not only have the navigators found no jobs, but the municipalities have not been able, especially those guided by grills, to start projects useful to the community. We remember Mayor Appandino, who started zero projects on 20,000 income recipients, while the Rays only 2,500 out of 185,000 recipients. Another serious deficiency of the Government: in the Budget Committee an amendment was rejected to extend the stoppage of the debitory folders, so on 16 October 9 million debitory folders will fall on the taxpayers with an avalanche of foreclosures. Minister Gualtieri reassures: there will be a very gradual restart; let's forget it. Unfortunately, as some of my colleagues have already pointed out, these days we are witnessing the tragedy of bad weather and I express my condolences for the victims and closeness to the territories. We had tabled an amendment to set up a fund to prevent floods and floods, with an initial budget of EUR 100 million for 2020. It has been considered too expensive; we have turned it into an agenda and we hope that it will not be forgotten. To date, while our Italy is again wounded, the Minister Costa dumps responsibility on the municipalities for the difficulty of identifying the areas at risk and planning the lack of resources, as if the resources and the bureaucracy did not depend also on the central government. Think that, according to the latest data from the national report on the situation of hydrogeological failure in our country, 91 percent of Italian municipalities are at risk, with 7 million residents in vulnerable areas and not even a cent has been allocated. There is no clear policy that puts at the heart of the political agenda interventions to stem the hydrogeological disruption and solve the problems related to our fragile territory. It is time to stop downloading your incompetence on Regions, Provinces and Municipalities. This is a habit of grill matrix. First there was Azzolina, who poured on school leaders and municipalities the inability to start schools and now also Minister Costa follows this path. Less theories and more facts, less scooters and more money to control bridges and clean up rivers; fewer constraints and more funds to municipalities, now. To this majority, deaf to the needs of businesses and private citizens, let us say that we do not solve problems by making ourselves look good and putting responsibility on others. I attended a conference last weekend and Minister Azzolina told his story of a young migrant who left Sicily with cardboard bags to look for luck in Italy and many young people are doing the same, and it is a commendable thing, but it must also be said that at this moment, given the inability manifest, as he is facing situations and emergencies, perhaps having to pack is only and exclusively the Government. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u62	Senator Laus is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u63	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, to the question of whether this decree-law could still be improved, the answer can only be, of course, yes, of course, and let us say that in part it has been improved by the amending action of the opposition and majority forces and some adjustments have also been made by the Government. Of course it could have been improved, but this Parliament - so we, every single senator - has the responsibility to tell the truth to ourselves and to the country and we must remember that we are in the heart of a pandemic that has shaken the balances and the world economies, has upset and disturbed the ordinary family balances, the lives of people, children, children, adolescents, women, men, grandmothers and grandparents. These behaviors have influenced the social part of the country and the world and have greatly influenced the ability to react that every single national economy could and can activate. But does this majority have a vision? Someone or someone - I think the President of the Senate - reminded the country that this majority does not have a vision. Well, I want to remind you that, thanks to this majority, there is fortunately a vision in the country. We saw long when we realized that the yellow-green government had placed our country in a corner of international breath and European location. This means that today we have the opportunity - other than the game of the goose - to understand what are the resources that can be used in our country; if we hadn't had the vision there wouldn't have been this dream either. In simple terms: without European resources we would not have had the hope of returning to those moments when we were worse. Here, then, the so-called August decree that we are preparing to vote today, that allocates 25 billion euros, ringed with the decree care Italy, with the decree liquidity and with the decree relaunch, brings the total amount of the appropriation to 100 billion euros. What have we done with these 100 billion? What did the majority and government want to do with these 100 billion? As I said before, they did not want to neglect social cohesion and territorial cohesion, in the heart of the pandemic, to defend the productive capacity of our country from the economic consequences of the emergency, looking at the future of our economy in the global scenario. On the director of these decrees that we have ringed (other than living the day) has been given a support to our National Health System, ranging from research on the fight against Covid to the disposal of waiting lists (knowing that a problem is complex and not susceptible to fleeting examination), until the strengthening of the entire section. Among the other measures taken are the resources necessary for the restarting of the new school year. The measures in support of workers are extended, extending for 18 weeks the integration fund in different types. And more: contributory reductions for disadvantaged areas, as well as specific payments on the kneeling sectors and incentives for permanent recruitment; refinancing with 7.8 billion of the Guarantee Fund for small and medium-sized enterprises; extension of the moratorium on loans and loans; 1.5 billion euro for the capital strengthening of state-controlled companies; Cinema, entertainment and audiovisual emergency fund; EUR 200 million to boost transport activities, including taxis, NCCs, road haulage, tourist buses and travel and cruise services. A lot of fiscal measures: huge resources for municipalities, metropolitan cities and regions to cope with lower revenues. I could continue to inignate the measures and interventions provided for by this decree-law. The real bet will pass from the ability that we will have in the realization of plans for relaunching the Country, utilizing all the resources that Europe makes available to us, starting from the resources of the ESM, because if it is true that our Country was already in difficulty in the health sector and we need to intervene, they serve resources. And if we do not find the resources from the European voice, we must free those resources from other voices and from other sectors that are already in difficulty today. I am sure that on this, even on this, the majority will be able to find a synthesis in order to better re-launch our country and our economy. I would like to take up a concept which I shared in the Committee on Employment, which was brilliantly taken up by my colleague, Mr Fedeli, on the relationship between labour security, social security, investment in human capital and growth: they go hand in hand. Today with Covid the world has completely changed: before we talked about minimum wages; today we have to explain that an account is the right pay (and on this we rely on collective bargaining between trade unions and employers), another account is a figure - that we must identify - below which the risk today is that there is exploitation of work and the violation of human law. So we have to find two levels: one is the right pay and the other is a level below which no one can take himself. I apologize, Mr President, but I would like a few more minutes. I would like to refer to Article 27 on territorial cohesion, which provides aid for employment in disadvantaged areas and decontribution to the South. On this subject, unfortunately, I am making a note of bitterness, because I too have tabled an amendment and I am putting it as an important political issue. In fact, the same approach that has seen the investment and the attention to territorial cohesion for the areas of the South must be activated for the metropolitan areas and for the areas in difficulty, because the lights of Christmas are not enough to activate the areas of metropolitan crisis. We have the need - my amendment provided for this - to intervene by promoting micro and small enterprises, by activating free zones. Free zones means zero bureaucracy and zero taxes and this can be done with reasonableness. Only and exclusively with this type of intervention and with this approach can we raise the fate of the depressed metropolitan areas that range from the North to the Deep South. I put this as a political matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u64	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u65	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Government, my fellow Senators, we are in this House at a particular time to adopt yet another urgent measure by this Government. We do this, as I said, at a particular time because in recent weeks we have seen a strong return of the contagions and of the emergency of health and therefore, as a consequence, also of the economic emergency, also because tomorrow we will listen to the Minister of Health who will talk to us about the new measures of the Government and the President of the Council on what could be the possible further restrictions in order to face the emergency of health and economic. So we are at a critical time and Government and Parliament are called upon to find effective solutions. Once again, however, we find ourselves in this House dealing with a measure that is similar to all previous ones. That is why, in the speeches of my previous colleagues from the opposition and in particular from the Forza Italia Parliamentary Group, we have already, in principle, expressed our concerns about the measure before us, which we once again define without effect. We affirm this because it is a full-bodied, complex, bureaucratic measure, made up of 115 articles that have the task of relaunching the economy and instead need in turn 53 other implementing decrees. So today, with all the previous measures, we arrive at about 289 implementing decrees necessary to implement the measures envisaged. Of these, today, going to analyze even the previous measures, only 20% were issued by the various ministries. In many cases, therefore, the deliberate measures voted in this House, voted by Parliament, have remained absolutely dead letter. This is a very serious problem which, as I said, comes today at a very particular time when it is necessary to be timely with the measures to get directly to the citizens. On the other hand, when the measure is voted on by the two branches of Parliament, everything will be moved to the Chambers of Ministries and therefore politics will give way to bureaucracy. This is absolutely not possible at a time when the decree-law is urgent and its implementation should be immediate and arrive immediately at our citizens and our companies. Without these decrees, the measures are useless, so the Italian citizens, in these weeks and these days, perceive little, as well as our companies. We hear it every day. So once again, in this House, I must recall the gap between the communication that the government makes and the real country. The government communicates roboating measures, bazooka measures and instead the real country is another. Once again we find ourselves talking about the distance between government communication and reality. Today the measure provides for an economic measure of an additional 25 billion which, added to all previous ones, make a total of 100 billion. I would like to remind all of you, especially my colleagues in the political majority, when in April we at Forza Italia were talking about allocating immediately 100 billion, certainly of debt, but in a few measures, indeed in a single measure that provided clear rules to write all together. Instead, many of our colleagues in the majority have even mocked us on this 100 billion. Today we have reached 100 billion, but with so many small pieces of stew that they are not bringing and producing positive effects for the economy. As we said, no one gave us this 100 billion because, in fact, it is a debt that we are putting on the shoulders of our children. There is no problem talking about debt, because we had asked for it too at the time, but let's be careful because there is debt and debt and recently reminded us of Mario Draghi when he told us about good debt and bad debt. We are back in the first case if the resources are used today with an appropriate destination and purpose, with reforms and if the debt is made for investments. In that case, we can talk about good debt; something quite different is, instead, these "broken" measures that feed exclusively current expenditure and do not create a virtuous circle of investments. Proof are the many bonuses, of which I would like to remember some things later. You do not generate consumption today by parceling the expense in this way or making available these bonuses. In fact, the effects are double and negative because bonuses have a quantity and they can't even satisfy all requests and then are limited in time and do not generate a consumption even for long or medium term. They do not generate it because they are immediate: they generate their effects only at that particular moment. They are measures that do not go in the direction of consumption and, therefore, at a time like the current one of great uncertainty, Italian instead of consuming, not knowing and not knowing why there is no country vision at this time, tries to save money. As I said, the bonus was your policy. The bonus flop has been mentioned by many in this House. I would just like to quote them: the vacation bonus is one of these and has remained unimplemented; there have been few requests and also poorly managed because to the detriment of tourism entrepreneurs today, who instead had to be helped. Mobility bonuses are not at all launched; there is still no portal to download the mobility bonus and then there is the famous 110% bonus, in which we also believe because we believe that construction is today a driving sector. Instead, even on the 110% bonus there is the interpretative difficulty between the Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Economic Development. Here again we are firm and the entrepreneurs and citizens who want to use it are not doing so. As I said, it is a set of measures and measures that we have defined as welfare and that absolutely do not serve at this moment to relaunch our country in order to support the investments. The recovery started in May did not offset the losses incurred during the closing period. For these reasons with colleagues from Forza Italia and oppositions we express a negative opinion on the August decree. The defects and shortcomings are those of the measures that we have already approved in these classrooms. Therefore, we already know that the measures contained in the August Decree will also be ineffective. I would like to end with a warning because the weeks ahead will be important and decisive. The government will be called to the most important challenge of recent years, the second most important historical challenge after the post-war one. The Government will be called upon to make important European efforts to develop proposals, projects and reforms. We have talked about the so-called recovery fund in many and we are all studying it, but, as I said, it is the Government that has to give answers. The fund amounts to 209 billion. Considering all the funds and the possibility of using the others available, we have a firepower (this, yes, today can be defined in this way) of about EUR 300 billion. It will therefore be essential to seize this opportunity, but for the Government it will also be decisive to have a political vision for the country and to verify the effectiveness of the relationship between politicians and technicians, because if it did not work on these measures, alas it will be difficult for it to work on a measure and on an important challenge like the one that awaits the Government. For this reason I am talking about the country's vision: if we already have this experience, today we must put in place the ability to find solutions, to be slim and above all to look to the future. That is why I would like to conclude, Mr President, by paraphrasing Seneca, who said that no wind is favourable to the sailor who does not know where to go. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u66	She's enlisted to speak Senator Gaudiano. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u67	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the so-called August Decree is in perfect continuity with the Italian Order of Care and the decree of relaunch. Support for the economy and incentives for the full recovery of consumption are long-term objectives and require consistent and consistent action. From this point of view it is worth noting the package of norms that the Government has presented to the Chambers. While it is true that the difficulties we are facing in 2020 are extraordinary, it is equally true that the answers of our Government are extraordinary. Support for growth, workers, entrepreneurs and families is economically quantifiable and is before everyone's eyes. In fact, the total resources that the State has put in place with the measures taken so far amount to EUR 100 billion, thanks also to the further budgetary deviation approved by Parliament. Of these, as many as 25 billion represent the additional sums that will have positive effects on the whole country with the August decree; it is a historic occasion, also thanks to the success of the President of the Council in the European negotiation, which has allowed the use of much more expansionary fiscal policy. For this reason it can be said that we are facing an Italian and European new deal that will allow the country to have the recovery it deserves. The path initiated and pursued by the Government by the August Decree brings innovative and development measures, putting in the field proposals of tax facilitated, incentives to lose money, financing of tools to support companies, as well as new compensation for workers who have most suffered the effects of the Covid-19. More than anything else, however, it brings with it a new systemic approach to the southern issue, which for too long has strained the Italian economy, not allowing its full development. For the first time, in fact, the Government approves a tool designed to bridge the gap between the South and the North Regions; a gap that inevitably affects citizens, their possibilities and ambitions and the infrastructure they could benefit from. The subject is very dear to me, not only because of my origin, but also and above all because I believe that eliminating territorial differences is the only way to overcome the economic crisis. Taking up the words of President Conte, I am sure that the August decree lays the foundations for a process of reindustrialization of the South, that is, it can be a flywheel for the economy and an attraction for the companies that want to invest in the South. In practice, the measures envisaged make it possible to have a significant impact on some 500 000 companies, of which more than 90% have fewer than ten employees. They are, therefore, small and medium-sized businesses that constitute the hard core of the Italian economy. Specifically, what we are achieving is a reduction in the cost of labour for all employees, with an advantage tax that provides for a decontribution for the company of 30% of the taxes on employees, from the beginning of October until December 2020 and that I hope will be reconfirmed with the next budget law. To this is added a general attention for the labour sector, on which I believe are the most incisive measures of the Decree-Law. I would like to mention, for example, the refinancing of the Integration Fund for a further eighteen weeks, which is accompanied by the possibility for entrepreneurs to re-enter employees from the Integration Fund and, alternatively, to benefit from a 100% contribution relief for four months. In this way, we are sure that we will support employment and businesses that are most in difficulty. In addition, in the field of active labour and training policies, the Decree-Law provides for the financing of 500 million - for the two-year period 2020-2021 - of the Fund for new skills, designed to implement the employment of workers. In detail, it is a fund that allows employees to employ hours of work, paid directly by the State, to follow training courses. This will generate added value both for companies with more skilled employees and for workers themselves who will be better prepared, which will enable them - where necessary - to move to other jobs by increasing their employment opportunities. We are also faced with a measure that guarantees a boost to employment, providing for a 100% decontribution for six months for the recruitment of new permanent employees, as well as a 100% decontribution for three months of seasonal work in the tourism sector. This sector is among the most affected by the Covid-19 epidemic and also among the most affected by the resources of the August Decree-Law. With this measure we have confirmed the compensation to workers in the tourism and spa sector. I would like to point out that a number of support instruments have been refinanced in order to ensure liquidity for companies. These include the 64 million for the new Sabatini, the 500 million for development contracts and 950 million for the support fund for companies involved in the implementation of major projects of European interest. Again, we have refinanced for 7,8 billion euros, for the three-year period 2023-2025, the guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises in order to facilitate their access to credit through the granting of a public guarantee. As regards small and medium-sized enterprises, I also recall the moratorium on loans and loans until 31 January 2021, as well as the increases foreseen for funds linked to the world of culture and entertainment, which have severely suffered the effects of the pandemic. These are just some of the measures designed and implemented to deal with the crisis and to reorganize the restart, to which are added increases of considerable funds established by the decree-law relaunch, such as the fund for the exercise of the functions of local authorities and the fund for the exercise of the functions of the Regions and the Autonomous Provinces, in the awareness that in order to fully implement the principle of subsidiarity in overcoming the enormous difficulties that the pandemic has put before us, it is necessary to guarantee the local authorities and the Regions sufficient resources. All this and much more is contained in the decree-law August, which is a vast package and with a very broad breath, which, involving many different sectors, tries not to forget anyone. For these reasons, to those who continue to repeat from the opposition benches tiredly and instrumentally that too little has been done, I allow myself to retort by borrowing the words of the Greek poet Hesiod: If you add little to little, but you do it often, soon the little will become very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u68	Senator Boldrini is registered to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u69	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, we are examining the August Decree-Law, on which the many speeches made by my previous colleagues have focused. This measure introduces further measures to consolidate the state's response to the economic and social consequences of the Covid-19 epidemic. I would remind you that the resources used for this purpose are largely obtained by means of increased indebtedness, approved by two resolutions, approved by an absolute majority by the House of Deputies and the Senate, which have allowed these funds to be used. Already this incipit, that is to say the use of funds in debt, makes us assume a greater responsibility than their use. I have heard colleagues say that we need to have an eye on young people, because in theory we are causing future generations to be in debt. So we must feel a further responsibility, because we must consider that what we do may be useful for the present, but it must be absolutely useful for the future. I remember that many colleagues talked about spot interventions and bonuses, but we need to have a programmatic vision of what our country will be after the Covid, because it can no longer be the one before the Covid. So we have additional possibilities - as we know well since we will look at the recovery fund guidelines - to reorganise the country, precisely because of the changes that we will have to make. Therefore, we no longer need to intervene in commercials, as colleagues say, but we need to find a new assessment of what our country must be: this is the most important challenge. We had to put our hands in the most absolute way to everything that was done in the August Decree-Law, especially on the subject of work, because this was the guideline of the decree. I remember that important investments have been made to prepare the restart phase of the country, with an economy that was running away. However, we are restarting it and I believe that all colleagues know the estimates, which indicate growth: it is a small growth, but we are succeeding. I would also like to point out that we have touched on the subject of work in a comprehensive way, including on issues which I particularly welcome, such as health care. I remember the fragile workers, with that important amendment, which the rapporteur, Mr Errani, spoke about at the beginning of the sitting. This amendment has led to a greater sensitivity for people who are more fragile in the face of Covid. So I really think we're doing our duty. Although listening to many of the previous speeches does not seem to be the case, I would like to stress the great work done in the budget committee. If you go through the amendments adopted in the Commission, you will find a lot of them proposed by the minority and it is therefore a bitter job, done together. From the speeches I have heard here, in this House, it seems that we have always been opposed and that we have accepted nothing. Go and see the amendments, because the names of the signatories, who represent the minority and the majority, know them all. I therefore believe that it is not right to have this kind of attitude. Of course, we play the game of the parties, for God's sake, but it is not fair to the rapporteurs, who really accepted all the demands and listened to all the demands, which also came from the minority. My colleagues have already spoken about the economic and labour issues covered by this measure, and I will therefore focus mainly on health issues, which are what we are dealing with in the Commission of which I am a member. During this period we cannot forget the energy spent by all our health personnel, who still at this moment, in which the pressure of Covid on our structures is returning, is working very hard. So adding additional resources to the National Health Service was very important. I am speaking to my colleague who spoke before (and I am sorry it is not now in this House) who spoke of waiting lists. We must rightly say that it is time to remove the waiting lists, because unfortunately the Covid-19 did not stop the other diseases, which - alas - have continued in a predominant way for those suffering from serious diseases, unfortunately. There is therefore an obligation to put a hand on this. I would remind you that no funds have been allocated to enter data, but some observations have been made through the Ministry of Health, which has identified in the various regions the deficit of waiting lists to be escaped. I therefore believe that a good job has been done, obviously in cooperation with Agenas. I would remind you that Parliament is also examining a measure in support of this Agency, a data collection point between the Agency and the State (the Ministry of Health) and the Regions. These are important data, which will not solve the problem - of course not: we will still have waiting lists - but they make us understand that, at this point, as I said before, we must reorganize our national health system. Unfortunately, there have been considerable inequalities, including between regions, and this we must continue to say. One of the interventions that gave me the most satisfaction, also thanks to colleagues and the Ministry of Health that supported it, is what really puts hand to the territorial system of health. I am referring to an approved amendment concerning the strengthening of health districts. Health districts are the place where the closest services to the citizen insist. As the Minister of Health has said at the Commission's hearing, a health care which is closer to the citizens is what we must strive for. We must strengthen those services, but (also on this front is changing the paradigm) not by lowering the services from above, but by basing them on the needs and needs of health. Now, with Covid-19, we realize that the needs of health become others; therefore, through the analysis of needs, we can enhance services. But with who? Not alone, but together with the mayors, who are responsible for the health of their citizens, to see what are the main needs of the territory. No commercials have been made, as has been said, but the first stones have been laid in order to be able to really reorganise the health system, which must certainly be revised, so that it can bring about improvements in the health of our citizens in the future. In this emergency it has been recognized that our country is going better than others, because these measures - which everyone is criticizing - have nevertheless led to an improvement and a positivity: we have a model that we can pursue and, indeed, we also school in other countries. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u70	He's enlisted to speak Senator Caliendo. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u71	Mr President, last Thursday, when Mr Mirabelli announced in the Committee on Justice that all the examination of the measure would take place today, I immediately asked Senator Malan to sign up for a general debate. I firmly believe that it is time to reflect on what this Parliament is. It seems to me that we are reducing it to something different from what is outlined in the Constitution. Our Constitution puts Parliament at the centre of all political and state action. But how is it possible that there was no evaluation anymore? Now Mrs Boldrini wondered why there had been a long debate in the Commission, but she did not ask why there was no discussion by the House on the amendments. Because in the general discussion everyone brings his own thesis and not a comparison of ideas or proposals. President Alberti Casellati anticipated me with an interview, which probably has the same origin as my thought. Let us be clear, I am referring to the origin, not of a party, but of studying law and the Constitution. The same origin has led us to make perhaps the same reflection. Here is a cultural delay that creates a handicap for our country. I believe that there would have been a need for a serious and in-depth debate among all of the events that are being planned. President Alberti Casellati says - and he said this not in the interview this morning, but even four days ago - that there is a danger to parliamentary democracy at the time when laws- decrees are followed converted all with confidence. This is a real matter. There is nothing to do, it is not in accordance with our Constitution and our idea of democracy to legislate on everything through decree-laws converted into law with confidence. Look, it's not like we're saying this today. Senator Mirabelli, when I was Undersecretary I always opposed majority meetings, because I always felt it necessary to involve the opposition. Why should the opposition be involved? Perhaps to ensure that the opposition takes part in the decisions? No, participation is important so that the Government can also understand the ideas of the opposition, in order to allow the maximum realization of a project and any hypothesis that looks to the future. I remember that we spent EUR 100 billion, with the idea that growth would be there. Let us see what will happen tomorrow morning after we have approved this measure. You have read and you all know of companies that have used the 25,000 euros guaranteed by the state. When the banks did not give the funding, despite the state guarantee, the report was made and those companies no longer had the opportunity to open up credit and to have financing. This is your ability to grow. At the same time, from 15 October onwards, it was planned to extend the co-active collection of taxes and from that date the new co-active collection will take place. Mr President, if I were a little populist, like some in this House, I should say that perhaps it is no longer appropriate to print this type of paper for every decree-law converted with confidence, because none of us can read it. None of us is aware of what is being voted on and of the changes made in the Commission in relation to the original text, because we do not have the list of amendments adopted, nor do we know the amendments. I had to scrape it off to find some solutions. I'm gonna ask myself a question. In the activity of those who, by necessity of things, want to work alone, there is a logic, that is to work without knowledge of the consequences. If we knew, we would not be in the situation that I have just denounced, at least for companies. We would have needed an overall development of our country's production system, because this served to guarantee those who are less well-off a possibility of certainty for the future and not already temporary assistance, which is not enough. Mr President, I shall conclude. I hope that we will proceed differently. I have read President Conte's statement that they will be ready to submit their decisions to the opposition's remarks in Parliament. I hope that it will not take place under this system, i.e. with a decree-law converted with confidence, but with prior consultation before the entry into Parliament, because Parliament will only serve to deepen the issues that the Government, possibly hearing the opposition... [[The microphone is automatically switched off. Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u72	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the previous speaker has already talked a great deal about the content of this measure, touching on articles and referring once again to their discrepancy with the real need of Italy as a whole and the Italians. In particular, I was struck by a statement by Mr Laus, who said that this epidemic has affected the balance of society in all its segments and has practically affected every social part. Senator Laus also added that there is still a vision of this majority. I am sorry to have to repeat this, but perhaps the vision of this majority corresponds to the delicacy of participation and listening to my fellow minority senators, who still represent a fairly copious slice of the Italians: I counted more than twenty-five senators with my back turned, very "warmly" while speaking to my colleagues. If you have such a vision of the Italians, which you think you can please with your decree-laws, you should first of all demonstrate this in this House. You should therefore all be present, listen to the complaints and what you have been told in the three hours of discussion so far by all those who have punctually pointed out to you what articles are only "picks and hubs" with respect to the real needs. Instead - I repeat to those who are following me - the same delicacy that this majority has with us, it has also with you Italians. This is my premise, which seems important to me and to which I add more news that I read this morning when I was on the train. It is very fresh news from the ministers Costa and Gualtieri, who refer to the content and the situation that we are currently experiencing. The Minister Costa, since the hydrogeological disaster that is taking place in several regions is in all the newspapers, refers to the fact that he is very optimistic because the funds are there: 7 billion are in cash. But there is a small problem, something of nothing: I am referring to the simplification decree that will certainly break all the administrative and bureaucratic laces and laces. The question, however, is that this decree-law of the month of August and, before it is technically usable, there is a material relapse, there are times of operation. However, the Minister is optimistic about the possibility that we can use it sooner or later, which leaves me a little perplexed. I have said to myself that in fact, while the houses, bridges and everything falls, something could be done; we could really start to streamline the bureaucracy, starting from what is perhaps the most important reform that flies and on which all the other situations are concerned: that is, the procurement code, which is still molding in the 8th Commission. But be patient. Minister Costa echoes the Minister Gualtieri, again around 10.35 am, with the debitory charts. It has been said that the deadline was running out, but the Minister has reassured that there is no problem: after talking to the Revenue Agency, the charts will be notified gradually and this is a reassuring news, as he is confident. Minister Gualtieri is also confident about the recovery fund that - in his opinion - can be operational at the beginning of 2021, and adds: I am confident that Italy will be ready with its plan. The Minister for Economic Affairs should, however, try to link these statements with what Prime Minister Conte said, according to which, if you are not ready with the plan, you will go home. Minister Gualtieri is confident; less confident and a little more realistic is Count, because it would be really difficult. However, there is another little news that, if it isn't in 2021, we will move a bit further and arrive at 2022. On several occasions we have listened to speeches by representatives of different parties - they were not complaints - who have punctually listed things that are not good. On the other hand, it is enough to see ourselves: we are here today with yet another confidence; if this were such a substantial measure, perhaps the House would be full and everyone would make speeches. Perhaps there is also a feeling that has not been called up, that is shame, because one thing is to go in haste, to move, to simplify and to sburocratize; one thing instead is to arrive in a rush and to have to resort to confidence with a measure that, analyzed well, has little to do with the emergency. In fact, there are small interventions that go to buffer certain situations that will resume in three months. But when you go to ask for money, they will ask for reforms and reforms cannot be mentioned in ten lines, with pre-printed schemes. Reforms need content and content must have such a heavy value as to justify the release of more than 100 billion, plus the sums for which we are already indebted and the additional 200 billion that should serve to put the country back on its feet. Proof of this is that we are talking about National Recovery and Resilience Plan, and above all of Resilience, since the Italians ask just to resist: "Resist, for in the meantime we here, in some hopeful and optimistic way, will try to put something in place." Simplification also means having courage and not fear. Simplifying means not being superficial, but putting the companies and all the commercial segments, the craftsmen - all the sectors, which I am not here to indicate, from health to trade, to industry, to transport - under the conditions of having really some norms that can be applied immediately; I remind you that then, once we have finished, you will have to take a course to try to understand what rules among those present within the plicchi to our examination will have to apply, because it is all a copy and paste. If, however, it is so worrying, if we are so afraid that perhaps in the folds of this simplification the underworld may be nested, I ask the President and all of you the following question. I ask if it corresponds to truth - we are so afraid to simplify, starting from the code of contracts, which is a matter that is very heartfelt - that here, in a simplified, fast procedure, without laces and laces, have entrusted to a company of Cerignola, the Cerichem Biopharm, which also has problems with the tax, with the Agency of income, three different contracts: one on 5 March for 270 cans of five liters of disinfectant gel, 50 bottles of 500 milliliters with dispenser; a second agreement a month later for 12,000 euros, for 25,000 liters of disinfectant gel; a third agreement for 21,000 euros, for 5,000 packs of wipes, 50 sprays disinfectants, 170 protective visors. The Finance Guard, however, then seized 4,000 packages from the company, because they were not in possession of the authorization of the European Community, nor that of Minister Hope and, therefore, could not be put on the market. Then two weights and two measures were applied. I ask you if that is true, but I think it is because, if news reported in such a precise way did not correspond to truth, it would be really disastrous for the person who brought it back. I wonder why double standards apply: you buy things without looking, letting go, more so here, inside, directly with the Executive, and then, when it's time to simplify a rule that gives the possibility to those who struggle to put together lunch with dinner, we refer to the fear that citizens can delinquere. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u74	He is registered to speak Senator Pellegrini Marco. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the August Decree is in perfect continuity with the decree cure Italy and with the decree relaunch and - not surprisingly - the provision that we are dealing with today is also called the decree relaunch 2, although it introduces numerous elements of novelty. The spirit of the measure, like the two above mentioned ones, is to continue to extend and strengthen the protection network around our entrepreneurs, to our economic-productive fabric, put to the test by the pandemic by Covid-19, and to lay the conditions for relaunching our economy by combining temporary aid measures and perspective measures, which look to the future and economic development. At the basis of the decree-law there is the third deviation of the budget, which we have already approved in both branches of Parliament, for 25 billion euros; and therefore, after the 20 billion of the decree cure Italy and 55 of the decree relaunch, the decree August brings to 100 billion euros the amount of resources put in place to cope with the emergency Covid. There are many support measures that have been confirmed and extended: on all of them I mention the extension of the supplementary fund by way of derogation and the refinancing for the coming years of the central guarantee fund for small and medium-sized enterprises with more than EUR 7 billion. There are many new measures to support workers and economic operators, such as, for example, the 600 euro allowance for seafarers, the 1,000 euro allowance for seasonal tourism workers; the 600 euro subsidy for sports workers; the introduction of a fund for the catering industry, with 600 million euro for 2020, to ensure non-refundable contributions for the purchase of agricultural products and foodstuffs, with the aim of enhancing local production. And again, I quote the introduction of grants for shops in historic centres, which have been penalized by the decline in tourist flows always as a result of the pandemic; contributions that will not be less than €1,000 for individuals and €2,000 for individuals other than natural persons and up to a maximum of €150,000. There are many measures that look to the future and to sustainable and technological development: we have allocated 500 million additional to the fund new skills for the training of workers; we have increased by 500 million euros for 2021 the resources allocated to municipalities for investments in public works on energy efficiency and sustainable territorial development. We have increased the resources for development contracts by EUR 500 million for 2020; we have increased the budget of the IPCEI fund for the implementation of projects of common European interest in research, development and innovation by EUR 950 million for 2021. There are also many tax extensions to give oxygen to our economic and productive fabric: we have introduced the possibility to further rate at least 50% of the value of previously suspended tax payments and this installment will extend for much of 2021; we have extended to 20 April 2021 the payment deadline of the second deposit of income tax or IRAP for taxpayers subject to synthetic indices of fiscal reliability, the so-called ISA. We have extended from 31 August to 15 October the final deadline for suspension of payments arising from payment records or enforcement notices. During the parliamentary process of this decree-law, several improvements were introduced: for example, the deadline for tax payments for taxpayers submitted to the ISAs was extended to 30 October. The exemption from the payment of TOSAP for streetwalkers was extended to 15 October, which is an additional measure compared to that which provided for the exemption until 31 December for bars and restaurants. With regard to the 110% superbonus, it has been made clearer the insurance path that technicians and designers will have to make and the thresholds for deliberation of the condominiums have been lowered in order to access the bank financing or the invoice discount or to transfer the tax credit to the financial institutions. The concept of autonomous access to the building has been made clearer: all measures tending to facilitate and expand the audience of beneficiaries. The protection of fragile workers has been strengthened, with the provision that until 15 October all public and private workers considered to be such - as an example only: cancer patients, immunodepressants, disabled people under Law 104, etc. - the period of abstention from work will not be considered as illness and after this date they will be able to use smart working until the end of the year. And these are just a few examples. President, beyond the controversy and controversy of instrumental and propaganda, it is impossible not to see the quantity and quality of the effort made to combine the protection of citizens and businesses and relaunch the country. [[Applause]] It is a species that criticism comes from those - and I am referring to the political forces that supported the government of the center-right - who, during the crisis that originated in 2008 and which went on for many years, did not move a single finger, not even a finger, and witnessed the disappearance of almost 500,000 companies and hundreds of thousands of jobs. And now they come to make morale and lesson! [[Applause]] It should not be forgotten, Mr President, that the drafting and examination of the budget law is approaching, which will provide additional resources, between EUR 30 billion and EUR 40 billion, and that it will have to be conceived in conjunction with the recovery fund. Some important measures for our future development will be based on expenditure commitments financed during 2021 by the recovery funds. All this will allow us to focus our efforts on other important goals for the country, on which the Movimento 5 Stars has worked incessantly and will work again. I am referring to the stabilisation of the 110% superbonus, therefore beyond 2021; to the stabilisation of the substantial incentives for the companies of the transition plan 4.0, which - as I recall - are already worth seven billion euros per year; to the extension of the decontribution to 30% for the companies of the South, which is a very important measure introduced by the August decree, and therefore by this majority and by this Government, which will be vital to extend given the importance for the country that invests the revival and the recovery of the South. In the same budget law will lay the foundations for an organic reform of the Irpef, which will not be without a drastic reduction in the tax burden and expenditure on the middle class, but preceded by two immediate measures, namely the confirmation of the cut of the tax wedge for 16 million taxpayers, already approved by this Government for the second half of 2020, and the debut of the single child allowance, which will facilitate the lives of families rationalising the jungle of existing bonuses. In conclusion, the Movimento 5 Stars will continue to work tirelessly to give every possible relief to the citizens and to put Italy on the path of the revival it deserves. That is why the expenditure of the large recovery funds will be decisive, and this is a historic achievement, which has been achieved in Europe and is also due to our constant stimulus. We've never stopped on this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u76	He's enlisted to speak Senator Urso. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u77	Mr President, the name and history of this decree make it clear to everyone that this majority and its government have also finished their fantasy. To date, at least that was not lacking: the decree of dignity, the income of citizenship, the decree of care, the decree of liquidity, the decree of relaunch. At some point you also noticed that you had exhausted even the fantasy of denominations and, not knowing how to call the decree to our examination, being a meatloaf without meaning, you called it August decree. In this there is all your lack of vision and strategy, the lack of a policy to deal with the serious crisis and to make sense of the debt of the state you have achieved; a debt, yes, without precedent. The tens of billions you peek at every step, listing one billion for this, one hundred million for this, five million for this other, start from a assumption that you never admit: it is not a treasure that you found under the tree; it is not resources that you created thanks to a fiscal policy or a productive policy that has led to new revenue. The 100 billion that we are talking about is 100 billion of new state debt with three budget deviations; 100 billion that no one has ever had in order to realize a maneuver in this country, 100 billion that carry the state's debt, in a few weeks, from 134 percent to almost, in perspective, 170 percent of the gross domestic product. And this debt is so costly that it alarms those who have budgetary powers: businesses, productive associations, even left-wing trade unions who blame you for the lack of vision and design on how to recover this debt. There is no record of how you will put the country and subsequent governments in a position to recover this new debt of 100 billion more and those you are preparing to list with the recovery fund or with other European measures. It is as if you had found a little treasure in Rome and then suddenly another more important treasure in Brussels. This is not the case because the 25 billion or a little more than the Sure, the 37 billion ESM - if anything you will activate it - the EIB's financing for businesses and almost all of the 209 billion recovery funds are new debt. Of course, it is the debt of Europe and not the direct debt of the Italian State, but it is always about debt and it will have to be repaid, because even the non-recovery fund, which is smaller, will always be on a European budget and, therefore, on new taxes that Europe has not yet decided how to achieve. If taxation on digital or financial transactions were not achieved, it would always be part of our budget for the part that is our responsibility. And if this were to happen, unfortunately, in the end, of the 209 billion, the Italian income lost would be 25 billion. The rest - we are talking about hundreds of billions: these 100 billions, those of the ESM, the Sure, the Bei and the recovery fund - reach monstrous figures, equal to almost 300 billion new debt for Italy in different forms. I wonder: what is all this to do? Who has seen any results of these 100 billion? Your maneuver is all made of tips and micro measures. Do you realize that to make the bill less heavy and reduce the number of its pages, it was written with body six? It is the fourth measure and, if we put all those produced next to each other, we arrive at about three kilos of cards. Well, there are twelve ministers involved in this measure, each with its own small things, but there is no strategy and vision on how to relaunch the production system. This is clear to everyone. Let me give you just one example, which is the fittest one because we leave the so-called tourist season. I'm referring to the vacation bonus. Who has used 2.4 billion so far? How much is the use of the holiday bonus, which should have supported in these moments the tourist-hotel sector, which is the frontier of the crisis? Less than 10 percent of them have been used. It is true that there is still a few weeks left, but why was that money not given directly to businesses? We have suggested in the amendments tabled that we should create some sort of tax compensation with what companies have already paid as a tax advance in November last year for IRAP and Irpef. At least we give directly to the companies that need it and have already paid the tax; to the active companies that, however, contribute to the well-being of our country and to the tax revenues. Through tax compensation we avoid leaving them in the hands of anyone and dispersing the rain bonuses that no one realizes. All the industrial nodes of the country are still there to be resolved, and I list some of them that also constitute your battles: we don't know and you don't know anything - this is even more serious - than how the dispute on Atlantia will end, with the title that leaps into the stock market at every declaration. I wonder when they'll investigate those statements and the consequences of the stock exchange and the shares in Atlantia. I'm telling the transparency movement. We do not know and do not know anything about the fate of Ilva and the steel industry. You do not know what will happen because you have not yet established it, where the Indian giant would withdraw. You do not know or better you know that the flag of Whirlpool will close and with it will close many of the hundreds of enterprises at the crisis tables of the Ministry. For the optical fiber project a single network with state control is indispensable, all the more so to be able to really create a system of smart working and smart city; well, there is talk of an understanding in which even the arms of the State do not agree on how to do it. Everything is suspended, everything is postponed, as in the worst Morotean Christian government; however, compared to that historical precedent, the country is in turmoil and in a global and Italian crisis that has no precedent. We do not talk about what happens in our ports, with very strange investments of Chinese companies (Trieste to the Germans, Taranto to China) and lack political decisions on 5G, if we must accept the subjection towards China or bind ourselves indissolublely to our world, the European and Atlantic Alliance. Then there is a sort of atomic bomb - I turn to the 5 stars - launched by a serious CEO like Nagel of Mediobanca. By the way, at the beginning of June in front of the recovery fund agreements I made a tweet in which I asked what was the list of expenses agreed with Macron, and then I indicated with an asterisk Borsa Italiana, with another Mediobanca and with a third Generali. I have no divinatory capacity, but that is what is happening: here is the list of expenditure agreed at the beginning of June with the French President. Well, the atomic bomb I was referring to is the fact that Nagel, the CEO of Mediobanca, speaks of what is about to happen as the terrifying wave of new loans deteriorated for 400 billion euros if we do not change the directives of the European banking authority (EBA) and, therefore, of the European Central Bank. In the ignorance of this Government - it is not enough to extend the moratories - we all know what will happen if they come into force - and come into force - the new rules on the location of the debt of businesses and citizens, most of which will end up among the insolvents. This mountain, this boulder, this atomic bomb risks deconstructing the Italian productive and social system. That's what we'd like you to talk about. And, above all, we would like a serious government, endowed with a strategy and a vision, to intervene before - on the one hand - the enormity of the public debt that is accumulating and - on the other hand - the atomic bomb of the deteriorated credits, which should dissolve the social and productive fabric of the country, can really bend the Italian nation. We're not gonna let that happen. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u78	He's enlisted to speak Senator Beginini. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u79	Mr President, the so-called August Decree contains very important and substantial resources which contribute, after other measures, to supporting our country. I am referring to the 25 billion that follow the important appropriations of the previous decree-law care Italy, of the decree relaunch, in addition to the measures of the decree simplifications. On this occasion, too, the measures put in place by the Government on labour issues, tax issues, support for sectors and specific sectors were important. The Senate, in its discussion and analysis of the measure under consideration, with specific amendments has made numerous improvements in different areas and sectors. Briefly I would like to retrace some passages that are the result of the work of the Italian Group Viva-P.S.I., which have often been supported by the majority and in some cases by the whole Commission. I refer to the possibility of devoting 2 per thousand to culture, which is restored in order to give support to this sector by taxpayers; the extension of a series of payments for those professionals, for those realities that apply synthetic indicators of reliability; measures such as the International House of Women, saved from the risks of closure, which we know well, in the face of the debts accumulated over time, as well as the fund for recovery centers for men perpetrators of violence against women; amendments related to the world of disability, with teaching continuity for school support to children in need of this type of support and support; smart working for parents of persons with serious recognised disabilities; bonus restaurateurs, extended to farmhouses with catering, catering for events and restaurants of hotels. Similarly, the earthquake measures have put together proposals and suggestions from several colleagues. I quote the help to fragile workers: a very important measure for the huge resources that the Senate has used among those available, integrating them at the same time thanks to an extraordinary effort on the part of the Government, which meets the needs of those who, for health reasons, find themselves in conditions of serious difficulty in returning to their work and their activity. Still, there are: the first house fund; the extension to the start of the energy efficiency works for the municipalities, moving in there the deadlines that the budget law had foreseen; the measure that finally removes - even in our country - the obligation to use only up to a maximum of 50% recycled plastic in the production of new plastic bottles - in this way we bring to the same with other European countries and we will no longer see on the labels the words up to 50 percent recycled plastic, but we will see up to a maximum of 100 percent recycled plastic usable - the tax credit for live performances; the revaluation of the assets also for those subjects who have an operating budget that does not coincide with the solar year. In short, we have made an important contribution, like many colleagues from other groups, to the improvement of the decree-law under consideration. Now, however, we have the gaze that already turns - on the one hand - towards the budget law and - on the other hand - towards the important measures that will have to be taken thanks to the use of the resources of the recovery fund. I believe that the government, first of all - with the proposals it will make - but also Parliament, the Senate in a specific way, with its power of direction towards the Executive, will have to give the use of these huge resources a strategic finalization. We must not run the risk of using rain resources, trying to cover so many demands and requirements that come from all sides, not only from productive sectors, from supply chains, but also from other institutions, from the regions, from the municipalities themselves. I believe that every local reality aspires to be able to use some of these resources for something specific, perhaps never resolved in the past, but, beware, dear colleagues: we must not fall into the temptation to distribute resources in rain where perhaps it has not been possible in time and years to arrive with the measures of the budget laws or even with those provided for in the decree-laws that we have approved this year. We have a duty to concentrate the resources where they serve to change step to our country, to change Italy where it is necessary to do so; to reach those areas of the country that have not yet served by important infrastructure, by high speed. Mr Cucca first recalled the metanization of Sardinia: a scandal that still an entire Region does not have a service like this, when the whole country is counted in Europe among those with a greater network of metanization. We need to get to, not the little things, but the operations that can change the face of the country. The theme of culture, which is identity, which is the basis of the same knowledge of our country in the world, I believe must be one of the areas on which you will have to invest more in order to make even more tourist attraction for our territory, allowing in this way to develop also hospitality, catering, typical products: everything that makes Italy great in the world. 20.20 p.m. (Beginnings followed). We must invest in research, in a much more important way than has been done so far, in order to allow our country, in different sectors, such as those of technology and health, to be up to date with the research that is being done in other countries. Italy is able to develop important significant projects, but not as many as the Italian genius would allow to do, if you invest more. Therefore, the next resources that we must allocate, even with the specific guidelines that Parliament wants to give to the Government, will have to be directed precisely to this extent, to issues that can strategically change Italy, especially where there is need. Allow me, however, to make a final remark on the manner and operation that Parliament has also had on this occasion, at a pace of work which will not allow the House of Deputies to fully examine the decree-law, which will therefore have to be adopted as we are firing it today. Mr President, I believe that this is a huge problem, because I do not want to guarantee and no longer allow Parliament to play its full role, through full readings in its two branches, and therefore to have an alternate monocameralism, I think it is a serious issue, which Parliament itself and the various political forces must stop and consider, in order to decide how to proceed. If there is a need to make changes to the Constitution, so that a different way of managing the legislative process can be achieved, I believe that this is the time to do so. After the referendum, the political forces sitting in Parliament must ask themselves - majority and opposition together, if possible - what measures to change our Constitution must be approved, because the style, process and practice that have prevailed for some time now have not been acceptable. I believe that the President of the Republic should also expect an appeal, so that the necessary changes can be made with responsibility to ensure that our Constitution is fully implemented. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u80	Senator Berutti is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u81	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the Government, the media name of the decree-law we are about to convert is emblematic. We are talking about August decree and today it is October 5. It was approved by the government when there were temperatures in our country with peaks of 30 degrees and Parliament finds itself converting it today, when our peninsula begins to arrive autumn and some phenomena of exceptional bad weather have begun to hit the territories, with unheard of violence. This is the case of Piedmont: by quoting my region, may I express here the greatest closeness to the families of the victims of the bad weather that in recent days has hit the North West of the country. [[Applause]] It will be necessary to intervene on this issue in a structural way, starting from the infrastructures and all those works of maintenance of the territory that can no longer wait. It is necessary to intervene and do so soon, starting from the resources of the recovery fund and without making accusations at the lower levels of government, as Minister Costa does today in the newspapers, in a confused and inappropriate way. A government that finds skills gaps in the smallest municipalities and in those of the inner areas, which are the backbone of the country, cannot limit itself to accusing them, but it must create conditions, even in a subsidiary perspective, so that certain interventions can be done, both in terms of skills and of the workforce. Coming to the decree-law that we are called to convert, we know that now the centrality of the Executive in the production of legislation is consolidated and it has been even more so during this long epidemiological emergency. However, we must return to giving Parliament centrality. Today we note that this time, too, we have chosen to put our trust. We take note of the increasingly marginal role that is left to the work of the Chambers. But what we have to highlight once again is that in this measure the Government tries to put up a patch on everything. The same is done with the guidelines of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan. We are therefore faced with a modus operandi of this Executive: we try to intervene on everything, without a strategic plan, and this way of not leading the country is very worrying. The best part of the country, however, does not ask for welfare, but interventions and opportunities to be declined in a long-term structural way and concrete answers to the pressing needs. On this, then, let me spend an appeal for immediate intervention, to give answers to the concrete needs of the territories of the North-West of the country affected by the bad weather. On this subject, in agreement with the actors of the territory, I had tabled an amendment for Alexandrino. Now it is all Piedmont that needs attention and resources. The Presidents of Piedmont and Liguria called for the state of emergency: the Executive hastens in this regard. I would have liked this House to give a signal to the territories with the approval of my amendment on Alexandrino. That was not the case and the continued use of government confidence prevents us from giving a signal, at least with the approval of an agenda. The August decree contains everything, but in this case it does not take into account what it needs. Political attention, however, cannot and must not be lacking and I therefore call on colleagues to create the conditions for not leaving the territories, families and entrepreneurs alone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u82	Senator Taricco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u83	Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of this brief speech, let me send a greeting and a hug to all the families and communities of the valleys Tanaro, Gesso, Vermenagna, Valsesia and Val Roya and the other valleys and territories affected by the recent avalanche of water. [[Applause]] , of over 500 millimeters; at Lemon Piemonte, 549 millimeters of mud in a few hours caused enormous damage and loss of human lives. On this subject I would like to thank President Conte for the care with which he expressed the will for immediate interventions, which we will follow and accompany, because the damage, as you have all seen, was really devastating: entire communities have seen everything they had destroyed and, in many cases, are practically isolated and cut off from everything. Coming to the merit of today's work, I believe we are all aware that the decree-laws today to our attention for conversion - moreover, after an important work by all our colleagues and, in particular, the Budget Commission - is extraordinarily important to help our country, in all its articulations, and our civil community to face this emergency season caused by the pandemic that hit and continues to hit the whole world and also our communities, with deaths, sick people and limitations, and that it continues to require us in a strong way not to lower our guard. It is a decree-law that follows the decrees care, liquidity, simplifications, relaunch and that to some extent integrates the work, providing for the continuation of the protections for the world of work and going to cover the sectors that had been discovered, putting in place new measures to face the demand for health in this extraordinary season, from all points of view, and to allow our health care to structure to the best to do so. New measures are planned for schools and for the general education universe, called to a complex test and which must be put in a position to manage itself in a renewed ordinaryity, because the present and future of our children are at stake. New measures are planned to support the work of our armed and security forces and local authorities, which have been and are at the moment a real front in which the confrontation of this emergency is taking place, on whose outcome depend the conditions in which our families will live and the quality and context in which our companies will operate, in all forms of organized life, and, in general, in which the civil, social and economic life of our communities will be articulated. There are also specific measures to support our own economic system: micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, in general, but above all those sectors particularly affected, such as tourism, culture, catering, entertainment, trade fairs, spas, sports, but also the manufacturing, fishing and agriculture sectors; measures to simplify and adapt to new behaviours; limitations imposed by the continuing emergency, such as the rules that oversee the condominium life. The measure also contains - or perhaps I should say above all - measures that guide and encourage a life and development oriented in a more sustainable way: low emissions, greater recovery and reuse and less waste of resources in the field of construction, materials, mobility and transport; and then infrastructure, publishing and many other sectors of intervention, as well as fiscal extensions: all measures to address the emergency, but also oriented to that idea of new season that will open before us at the exit - hopefully soon - from this emergency. 20.32 (Taricco follow-up). That fact in the Commission has further completed and enriched this work with normative clarifications, implementations and refinements of norms already present in the decree and in the previous ones, with the recognition of particular situations, such as those related to the quarantine of members of families or persons in fragility; in the case of the fourth range and of the crops affected by frost for the agricultural sector, has included additional measures for the local authorities; in agriculture, for the wine sector; and then, fiscal measures. All this, of course, is a source of satisfaction and gratitude for the work that, with the collaboration of all, could be done in the right climate. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteurs, the representatives of the Government and also the oppositions to the climate of cooperation in which they were able to work. There remains regret for what could not be done and that it will necessarily be referred to the budget law or other measures: I refer to amendments such as 58.9 which aimed to clarify the way in which a rule is implemented in a different way in various territories; or to the issue of the requirements for the connection to the agricultural activity of farmhouses (the aim was to introduce national guidelines that were applied on the territories in a uniform way by the individual regions). I am also thinking of amendments which tended to delete instruments and rules that no longer have the right to exist, such as 103.4 which aimed to abolish the state mark on alcohol: an instrument which was born to control the payment of excise duties, but which, now that it is acquitted at source, no longer has reason to exist; or which aimed to guarantee the quality of the products, but which now, with packaging, the image of the companies producing these products and communication, has no reason to exist. It is a norm that, for the purchase of these marks, costs to the companies 7 million euros per year, but that generates costs induced for tens of million euros in charge of the public for the logistics, the warehouses, the accounting and the controls and creates enormous diseconomies to the enterprises that they must keep separate warehouses for the Italian and the foreign market, with costs of storage, accounting, management and logistics. Or, I think of amendments aimed at regulating areas of human activity, tools or materials of new utility and use, as in the case of 58.0.48, aimed at regulating in a precise way the use of digestate, i.e. the result of anaerobic digestion of biomass, waste and agricultural-zootechnical waste; this is an important necessity in order to guide in a virtuous way the best quality of this product, which can largely replace the chemical fertilizer and improve the zootechnical waste returned to the soil, ultimately improving the texture, the fertility of the soil and the relationship with the water. All this would be done by asking for higher quality and stricter controls on operators and, in the face of this, allowing wider use. I would like to express my regret at Amendment 11.0.2 which would have allowed the immediate use of resources for workers affected by diseases resulting from the inhalation of asbestos fibres in the railway rolling stock. Some of them are also exodus, i.e. without work, pending the pension treatment referred to in Law No 208 of 2015, paragraph 277, which referred to the benefits of Article 13 of Law No 257 of 1992. On all these issues we should find a viable solution as soon as possible. As I have already said, we have responded to so many measures and issues with this law. Rules remain to be clarified, deleted or interpreted as new challenges. Our country can draw from this emergency a strong and renewed challenge to get out of it better. It is our job to provide businesses, families and citizens with the tools to do this best. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u84	Senator Tosato is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u85	Mr President, I too want to start this intervention by showing solidarity with the territories and populations affected by the clouds that have spilled over Piedmont, Liguria, Lombardy and in general over our country. [[Applause.]] I do so on this occasion, all the more so, after the statements of a representative of the Government who, instead of expressing judgements, should find solutions. I am referring to Minister Costa who, from the warm and comfortable office of his ministry, has allowed himself to accuse those who are first citizens not only in representing a community, but also in facing the emergency, and who in these days, together with their community, are facing with their hands and with their commitment in first person the attempt to repair what the bad weather has devastated. They certainly deserve our respect, regardless of political membership, because they deserve it. [[Applause.]] Today being mayor means trying to give answers to their communities, without means, without staff and, sometimes, without even the rewards that derive from their commitment. It is shameful that a minister says that hydrogeological failure has never been tackled, not because of lack of funds, but because of the shortcomings of the municipalities. If a minister of this kind has the right to represent our country, I believe we have expired at very low levels. It is the same Minister who, in all the measures that we have carried out in recent months, has always been the "Mr No": no to every attempt, even of our movement, to make corrective changes to a system absolutely cast; no, even in this decree, to the request to allocate 100 million - a figure that we thought reasonable, in a measure that allocates 25 billion - to give the first answers to the hydrogeological failure. We did it: we tabled an amendment, we discussed it with the majority and with the government, but the answer was: no, there are other priorities. We are seeing - alas - even in these hours that is a priority of our country and you are not facing it at all. I intervene without great enthusiasm with respect to this measure, because it is the fifth of the current emergent phase, after the decree-law care Italy, liquidity, simplification and relaunch, all with the same track: a direction that is absolutely not ours; it represents a vision - you say - but in our opinion it is light years away from the reality and drama that we live in our country and that is perceived among workers, entrepreneurs, craftsmen and traders, that you do not hear. The situation today is paradoxical, because, in a sense, it is calmed by the allocation of these 100 billions that you have paid into public spending, but that only deal with the integration fund in an emerging way with subsidies, allowances, contributions and bonuses that absolutely do not solve the problem that our country is experiencing. The problems you are handling will be repeated and manifested in all their drama when these resources end (and, sooner or later, these appropriations will end). You spent 100 billion this year, you plan to spend 200 more next year with the recovery fund, but it should be remembered that all these resources are in debt, they are not in the availability of our production system. You are in debt and it is appropriate to do so, but if there are structural solutions, not forms of subsidies and allowances that leave the time they find and postpone the abyss towards which we are going. It is here that you reflect the difference in mentality between your political part, which is that of the left and the 5 Stars, which at least from the economic point of view have the same vision, and our part. We believe it is clear that all these forms of benefit and benefit are financed either in debt or through the collection of taxes. We have a different view: no allowances, no subsidies, no citizenship or emergency income. We leave money in the pockets of families, entrepreneurs, traders and craftsmen, so that they can work and give jobs. [[Applause.]] In this way you can have a healthy society, built on work and not on subsidies or emerging forms such as those you propose. You have a completely distorted view of the economy and you think that our country can live with these tools, but it is clear that sooner or later the castle will collapse. We are now in a situation where the boat makes water from all sides and continue to put patches to the right and to the left, in various directions, without finding definitive solutions. We must lighten the load, which is made up of taxes and bureaucracy. In these three years, two decree-laws were approved that had to simplify the world of procurement, with our Government, certainly hampered by a vision of the 5 Stars, which was not ours, and in fact that decree-law did not achieve all the objectives it had to, and with a decree simplifications that in the same way did not simplify anything at all. Courageous choices are needed. In dramatic situations such as the one we are experiencing, we do not need survival and watershed interventions such as those you are carrying out, but a revolution, which passes from a drastic reduction in the tax burden and bureaucratic burden on those who work. These goals do not know what they are, indeed you hinder them, because you tend to have a mentality for which the self-employed are a tax evader and must be fought and hindered [[Applause]] And bureaucracy serves, because we tend to be all dishonest and therefore, to prevent dishonests from doing what they want, it takes endless rules, impossible to manage and to deal with for those who work. In the end you reach only one goal: who is dishonest remains, manages to escape and avoid bureaucracy and does what he wants, despite all your laces and laces. I also record that, from the Update Note to the DEF you have recently baked, it is still assumed to be able to collect huge resources from the fight against tax evasion: yet another fantasy; yet another madness. On the other hand, you do not notice that, with a huge tax burden, you shut down companies and craft and commercial activities and make those who were workers today become unemployed who need subsidies, fund integration and citizenship income. With the bureaucracy you put out the honest, who want and find themselves forced to fulfil all these forms of constraints on the part of the State and make survive those who instead manage to avoid with dishonesty all these procedures. This is the model of your society, which will certainly lead to the failure of one of the most cutting-edge economic systems in our country. This is the drama that we are experiencing, in total silence and indifference: in a surreal situation, here we are not realizing that, after the 100 billion and the 200 million of the recovery fund have ended, we will only have more public debt, without having faced the challenge of changing the tax burden and the bureaucratic burden that we had to face today more than in the past. We had a historic opportunity, with all the resources that Europe has generously authorised us to use in debt, but we are not doing so. We're losing this opportunity because of you. For the umpteenth time you load citizens and workers of bureaucracy and taxes and condemn all of us to an inexorable decline. We hope that this period will end, but the risk is to collect only ashes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u86	He's enlisted to speak Senator Fenu. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u87	Mr President, once again we are called upon to convert a decree-law quickly and in a climate of apprehension. Often, when we spend our days here, inside the Senate premises, it seems to us that the pandemic is a little far from these halls. Instead, last week she entered the Senate building and infected two colleagues: Marco Croatti and Francesco Mollame, to whom of course go our hug and a wish for prompt healing. [[Applause]] We feared that we would have to stop the work of the Commissions and the legislative process and not succeed in converting the August Decree into law, with all the consequences for the recipients of the measures provided for in the measure. Failure to convert would have meant: the failure to extend the integration fund, with thousands of companies forced to immediately dismiss their employees; the failure to extend the payment of income taxes and exemption from TOSAP and COSAP for bars and restaurants; the failure to extend the Naspi social shock absorbers and unemployment for employees. The seasonal workers of tourism could not have received the compensation of 1.000 euros provided for by the decree and the seafarers would have seen the right to the allowance of 600 euros lapse for the months of June and July. Still, there would not have been an increase from 600 to 1,000 euros of allowances for the month of May in favour of the freelancers enrolled in compulsory pension funds, as well as the 600 euro grant for sports workers. There would have been no conversion of the 30% decontribution measure for recruitment in the South Regions. Nor would there have been an increase in the Fund's budget for the exercise of the fundamental functions of local authorities: EUR 1.6 billion more to compensate municipalities, provinces and metropolitan cities for the loss of local revenue resulting from Covid. So, we were afraid that all these measures, along with so many others that I have not listed even for reasons of time, could have lapsed together with the same decree-law. Today we have heard some comments from colleagues in the opposition. Someone, I believe Senator Urso, called the August decree a "meaningless puppet." I believe that many of my opposition colleagues today also know what the serious consequences would have been if this decree-law had not been converted and I believe that they should have been concerned that 83 amendments which were adopted, proposed by the opposition, would not have been converted together with it. To consolidate the state's response to the economic and social consequences caused by the Covid-19 were used by the Government Count resources for 100 billion euros, 25 of which are allocated in the August decree alone that we are called to convert. We know that from this shock, from this emergency we could take a unique opportunity, not to be missed, to question all those aspects of the country's life that have negatively affected economic and social progress in the last twenty years. We all know of the great opportunities that we could draw from the resources that will be found with the next generation EU program, which plans to raise funds on the markets for 750 billion euros, of which approximately 191 (209, if we consider other funds of minor importance) will be destined to Italy, 80 of which lose money. For the first time, what could become a European sovereign fund, fueled by the issuance of European debt securities, will grant individual Member States with non-refundable transfers, just as the Italian State does to its own regions. Unexpectedly, certainly because of a serious emergency situation, we have made a huge leap in European integration and now we are called to spend, and to spend well, the resources that will have to come. European Commissioner for Economic Affairs Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, a few weeks ago, confirmed that the resources of the recovery fund cannot be used to reduce the tax burden. However, I believe that they can be used to innovate our tax system, to develop new technological tools that make taxpayers' lives easier and cheaper to evade taxes. There is not only an excessive tax burden on average-low incomes. We know that between 28,000 and 40,000 euros of income the average marginal rate, i.e. the rate that the tax on each additional euro earned, varies from 45 to 60%. The problem exists, it's serious, but it's not the only one. Our IRS is almost inscrutable, it's unknown. From this comes the fear of the unknown and our tax system is frightening, especially to companies that would like to engage in economic activity, invest and innovate. It is necessary - and this is why I am also addressing the Government - to abandon the old schemes of tax reasoning. The delicacies about rates, which we hear about these days too, are useful, certainly not exciting and often risk being vain. On the other hand, it is necessary to involve people in the reform of the tax system who are able to build complex infrastructures, making it easy to calculate and pay taxes. The taxpayer, the small entrepreneur and the professional, who are the backbone of our economic system, must be able to know in a simple and immediate way, before accepting a new assignment and carrying out a new work, how many more taxes will have to pay in correspondence of a certain greater revenue. Those who exercise economic activity must be freed from tax obligations, tax bureaucracy. The technological level reached is such that it is possible to think of an immediate withdrawal or micro withdrawal system, which frees the small business or the trader from any further or subsequent tax burden or tax fulfillment. The self-employed in this must be equal to the self-employed. It must have the same right not to live in the concern of future tax compliance or controls and must think only to grow its own business. Only then can we be sure of the tax relationship. The complexity and uncertainty are perhaps among the major causes of tax evasion, even more so than the quantity or extent of tax rates, which is the subject we are debating these days. Those who exercise economic activity often live in fear of being delivered claims that they had not anticipated. This condition helps to create a climate of fear, which discourages and degrades investment and entrepreneurial initiatives. With the money from the recovery fund, we cannot reduce the tax burden, as the European Commissioner for Economic Affairs tells us, but we can use the funds to make the tax relationship simpler and more transparent. Technology can and must also be used to make tax incentives easier to use. As far as the superbonus is concerned, I would first like to remind our Group's colleagues that it is a measure of the Movimento 5 Stars. [[Applause]] We have introduced for the first time the possibility of giving in without limits the credits deriving from the deductions for energy efficiency. Through the use of technology, we can think of making the circulation of these tax credits smoother. Why, once certified through a portal such as the tax drawer, can you not think of allowing the use of these credits also as a consideration for the purchase of goods and services? There are constraints, but I believe that technology is such that it can be taken into account in the circulation of credits. Moreover, from a regulatory point of view, claims on the State can in fact be transferred to third parties since 1923, when Royal Decree No 2440 entered into force. It can be done, therefore, and in the meantime we have also reached a level of technology that allows us to do it even more fluidly and safely. [[Applause.]] An article appeared on September 24 on the "Corriere della Sera" (Corriere della Sera), which told of a clash between the Irish Privacy Supervisor and the colossus Facebook, found that the estimated economic value of the personal data of European citizens that are transferred to the United States every year and that are used by Facebook as a raw material is equal to 7,000 billion euros per year. Our personal data that we supply every year and that is worth 7,000 billion euros are exploited economically and free of charge by companies that use them to produce services and to legitimately achieve revenues worldwide. You can use the recovery resources to build a system that can intercept and track this data. One can foresee a form of refreshment towards their legitimate owners, or towards us. We fear perhaps a trade war and perhaps we have some reservations about this, but the problem must be addressed with reasonableness, the same one that must prevent us from wasting a fortune of 7,000 billion euros. Mr President, with the approval of this decree-law, the will to support Italian families, workers and businesses with an unprecedented effort is confirmed, protecting them from the negative economic consequences generated by the epidemiological emergency. The decree-laws that have followed in recent months and with which we want to protect these same subjects are necessary, but they are not enough and we must plan the future especially with the resources of the recovery fund. We must let them know that we intend to do so, perhaps occasionally leaving out the media visibility even with ideas whose scope may not be immediately understood by the electorate; however, we must do so: we must plan the future of the country. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u88	The general debate is closed. I call the rapporteur, Senator Manca.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u89	Mr President, I would also like to make a few brief comments on the course of the debate and on the issues that several of my fellow senators have put to the attention of our debate. The first is related to the path we followed. I continue to think that the accusation that is being made to us about the use of the vote of confidence, according to some improper, does not take into account, in my view, the valuable and important work that we have done in the Commission. We have voted on the amendments, through which we have carried out a political confrontation that I consider serious and productive, also with the opposition forces; we have converted this decree-law also thanks to a valuable collaboration with the Government, increasing the resources available: we have gone from 250 million euros on 2020, plus 50 of 2021, to over 520. We have dealt with important issues, which I believe are a valuable element for our democracy, for the political confrontation between different forces, which obviously have different identities and profiles, which I believe has also been useful and constructive to enhance Parliament's work. In fact, in the budget committee, I consider this comparison to be useful. Compared to the other parliamentary passages of conversion, from the decree-law cures Italy to the decree relaunch, we consider this path particularly important, also because of a constructive confrontation. Similarly, to define the proposals of the majority and the Government without an identity, a vision, I continue to think that it is an element of weakness, because identity and vision are within our projects and proposals with which this Government has intended to take Italy away from the pandemic crisis. There is an identity when we talk about work; there is an identity when we talk about support for businesses; there is an identity when we talk about support for families; there is an identity when, through specific interventions, we put Regions and Local Authorities in the condition to collaborate with the State to get out of this crisis. I cannot be told that there is no vision, because the plan that the Government has put on the field to cross and get out of this crisis is based on precise values of not leaving people behind and at the same time to unite and not divide the work from capital, the work from the enterprise. There is no retroactive ideology in considering the enterprise valuable to the territorial system; we have no ideological reason and we do not consider VAT matches, the self-employed as elements of tax evasion; we consider them fundamental elements of a community, because this is the political direction contained within all the measures we have determined to go through this crisis. Of course, both in the procedures and in the merit, to go through such a serious emergency, that it has not only affected Italy but that has struck the world at heart in its entirety, obviously it has also required the use of emergency procedures, because we are within an emergency. It is not just a matter of decrees by the President of the Council of Ministers; we are in an emergency because the pandemic dynamics have produced a very significant economic shock. When we lose more than 10 points of GDP, it is inevitable that we are in a upheaval of the economic and social dynamics that require structural action. The so-called August Decree is a bridge towards the use of the new face that Europe will make available to overcome this crisis and build a new model of economic development; it is a model of economic development that will support on an environmentally sustainable economy, on a more digital Italy, on innovation and research indispensable to accompany a new idea of economic development. It is a change, because it is not part of the instruments of the past; new economic and social dimensions must be identified which are indispensable for promoting work and economic growth. It will be a new economic growth, not the same as that before the pandemic crisis. They are discussing this in every corner of the globe and therefore also within Europe, which is why I call it the bridge to European dynamics, and for this reason it seems ungenerous and unfair to accuse the majority and the government of not having a vision. As clearly as I can say, social shock absorbers are not a form of welfare intervention for us. Their selectivity is essential to save businesses; it is crucial to secure pieces of our production fabric. How do you define a social shock absorber as a welfare intervention? If we place the work and the enterprise in a form of welfare, it is the precise identity of a country that decides to build the fundamental conditions to protect the work, save the enterprises and contribute, also through a new commitment of the state, to new economic conversion of pieces of our economy, certainly more oriented towards environmental sustainability. Green economy means this: circular economy, innovation and research; they are points of contact that are an integral part of the political project of this majority. That's why I say there's a vision, an identity. We are certainly going through an emergency, but there is an idea of the society on which we have built our response to the pandemic crisis. Moreover, there are a number of measures that we have also introduced on the economic side; we have not had time to exploit them, but I consider many positive actions such as those taken with regard to companies. The temporary suspension of depreciation, as regards tangible and intangible fixed assets, will have a positive effect, i.e. it will protect several small and medium-sized enterprises from their possible extension to the difficult procedures that the rule on bankruptcy procedures determines. Every action is being taken to secure a significant number of companies, to be able to restart, to build an idea of the future of our country. The same interventions are not commercial: the interventions we have taken against small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed, VAT consignments. They will probably not be complete, they will certainly not end up within these measures because we need to reposition the State obviously within the dynamics of infrastructure, the economy, the infrastructure system even digital that we have to help achieve. They are not the only interventions; you can not define tips or bonuses a go go go. They are fundamental interventions that have their own profile and orientation, and that I believe will help this country to emerge from the crisis, but will support this crisis on a new vision of the economy and society. Colleagues, I have tried to represent certain elements in my reply, certainly not to accuse someone, but simply to consider what we have accomplished in the conversion of the decree-laws a choice consistent with a vision and an identity that unite us. A vision and an identity that they have decided to work to widen the area of rights, because to use over 300 million euros to give guarantees to an immunodepressed worker or to a citizen who is undergoing cancer treatment is in my opinion the duty of a country; a duty of the public system. Ensuring and expanding the area of rights is something that belongs to us. Returning centrality to work is a cultural and political choice that sees us united in an idea of the future of our country. Soldering capital with labour and removing ourselves from the ideological contrasts of the past is the fundamental element of an idea of the future of the economy and society. We begin to leave the debate of the past to the past and try to contribute together to the construction and reading of a new social and economic dimension. That is why politics is again credible, the institutions are once again fundamental to guarantee essential interventions for families and businesses. I have been the mayor and I have heard inappropriately of Mr Costa's statements. I do not think that the Minister had any intention of downloading to the municipalities an issue that cannot be blamed on the Minister's responsibility. What happened in Piedmont is a serious disaster; it is a tragedy for that territory. We must intervene, but we must not forget that the reasons for the Stability Pact blockade, the reasons for the blockage of investment by local authorities have far-reaching roots: they date back to the austerity season; they go back to the face of a different Europe than what we are building and with which we are helping to give the European perimeter a new vision. We begin to abandon these ideas because there is no doubt that the hydrogeological structure of our territory and its maintenance operations require a quantity of new and additional investments compared to the past; but the municipalities were not in a position to invest because, unfortunately, for many years, the whole public system was forced, through the Internal Stability Pact, not to be able to develop investments. In order to attack the crisis of 2008 we were forced to give up investments and the municipalities have reduced the maintenance of the territory, and therefore today we must put the investments back on track. This country will start again from the investments, there will be no space to leave without the investments of the local authorities and without a new perimeter, a new identification of the role of the public administration. We must pursue these actions, because if we want to start again with the investments we have to restructure our contracting stations, we have to create optimal territorial areas, we have to rebuild the face of the social and health system in the territory. Here we start again with investments and also start again with an extraordinary plan of hydrogeological reorganization of our country is a priority: No conflicts, no charges against the Minister, no charges against the mayors. It is up to us to mend, to maintain, to put investment back at the centre, to realize a great plan of contrast to the hydrogeological failure in our country. These are the practical and useful actions that we have included in this measure, on which we are calling for the consent of this branch of Parliament today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u90	The minority rapporteur, Senator Calandrini, does not intend to speak in his reply. He asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u91	Mr President, the Government submits to the Presidency, pursuant to Rule 161 (3) - 3b of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the text of an amendment transposing the amendments proposed by the Commission in the referee, entirely replacing Article 1 of the bill of conversion of the decree-law in question, on which, subject to the permission of the Council of Ministers, it intends to raise the question of trust.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u92	I call the Conference of Leaders at 9.30 p.m. The sitting is suspended. (The sitting was suspended at 21.12 a.m. and resumed at 22.40 a.m.) Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with Rule 161 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Presidency has assessed the amendment tabled by the Government, entirely replacing Decree-Law No 104, which supports and relaunches the economy. The Presidency declares that the provisions of the maxi amendment tabled by the Government which reproduce the content of the following amendments adopted in the referee: 30.0.4, only for the last two periods; 32.22; 42.0.1; 44.0.3; 44.0.4; 54.0.1; 77.37, limited to paragraph 2-c; 77.62, limited to paragraph 3-a; 82.0.3; 100.10, limited to paragraphs 10-b to 10-f; 112.0.5. The following amendments included in the amendment are admissible provided that they are relocated as follows: 47.2 to Article 51; 058.1 to Article 60; 59.0.13 to Article 60; 80.10 to Article 51; 95.0.10 to Article 50; 95.0.11 to Article 51; 96.0.7 to Article 51; 96.0.24 to Article 51; 109.1 to Article 64. He again asked the Minister for Relations with Parliament, Mr D'Incà. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, authorised by the Council of Ministers, I would like to raise the question of confidence in the adoption of the amendment entirely replacing the single article of draft law No 1925, in the text deemed available by the Presidency, of the conversion into law of Decree-Law No 104 of 14 August 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u94	The Presidency notes that the question of confidence has been put on the approval of the fully replacement amendment, as amended by the Government. In accordance with Rule 102a of the Rules of Procedure, it sends the text of the amendment to the 5th Permanent Commission, which is now authorised to convene.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u95	The Conference of Leaders organised the question of trust announced by the Government on the amendment entirely replacing the decree-law support and relaunching the economy. Ten minutes were allocated for the discussion, which will begin tomorrow morning at 9.30 a.m., on the basis of specific requests from the Groups. They will follow the explanations of vote and call you. The timetable is integrated tomorrow, at 12.30 p.m., with the Minister of Health's communications on the content of the measures implementing containment measures to prevent the spread of the Covid-19 virus. Three hours were allocated to the Groups, including speeches in the debate and explanations of vote on any resolutions tabled. On Tuesday 13 October, at 3.30 p.m., the President of the Council of Ministers will make communications with a view to the European Council on 15 and 16 October 2020.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u96	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-10-05-LEG18-Senato-sed-260.ana.u97	The Senate will meet again in public session tomorrow, Tuesday, October 6, at 9.30 a.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 22.46 p.m.
