ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u1	The sitting is open (9.35 a.m.). The Minutes shall be read. Mr Tosato, Secretary, read the Minutes of the sitting of the previous day. PRESIDENT. - The debate is Since there were no comments, the Minutes were approved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u2	The list of senators on leave and absent on assignment received from the Senate, as well as further communications to the Assembly, will be published in Annex B to today's Minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u3	I communicate that on 5 February 2020 the following draft law was presented: by the President of the Council of Ministers and by the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance: "Conversion into law of Decree-Law No 3 of 5 February 2020 on urgent measures to reduce the tax burden on employees" (1698).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u4	I inform the Assembly that at the beginning of the sitting the President of the Movimento 5 Star Group sent, pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure, the request for an electronic vote for all votes to be taken during the sitting. The request is accepted pursuant to Rule 113 (2) of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u5	[[The President and the Assembly stand.]] Colleagues, we learned this morning of the serious railway accident on the high-speed line. In interpreting the sentiment of the entire Assembly, I express the closeness of the Senate to the victims' relatives and, while waiting for precise information, I extend my thanks and encouragement to all rescuers. I call on the House to observe one minute's recollection. [[The Assembly observed a minute's silence.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u6	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u7	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u8	AIROLA (M5S). Mr President, I just want to thank you for your words with respect to the two workers: I know the drivers and the hard work they do, because I have been taking that train for eight years. PRESIDENT. - The debate is My words were expressed on behalf of the Senate Presidency and, therefore, due.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u9	The next item is the vote on the election of a Senator Secretary. Pursuant to Rule 5 (3) of the Rules of Procedure, each Senator will write on his card a single name. He or she who obtains the highest number of votes will be elected. With equal votes, the oldest will be elected. Two booths have been set up in front of the Presidency to ensure the smoothest possible conduct of voting operations. My fellow senators, immediately before the entrance into the cabin, will receive from the parliamentary assistants the card that, after the vote, they will deposit in the appropriate urn at the exit of the cabin itself. The call will be done in alphabetical order. After the call has been made, the ballot boxes will remain open until 1 p.m., while the Assembly will continue to discuss the next item on the agenda. I therefore declare the vote open and invite the Senator Secretary to proceed to the appeal. He asked to vote first, and the Presidency granted it, Senator Salvini. I invite the Senator Secretary to register his vote. Tosato, secretary, makes the appeal. (The voting operations followed). I declare closed the vote of the senators present at this time in this House. I warn the Senators who have not yet voted that they will be able to do so until 1 p.m., passing under the Presidency and communicating their name to the Secretary Senators. (The ballot boxes remain open.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u10	On behalf of the Assembly I greet the teachers and students of the Institute including Via Val Maggia in Rome, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u11	The next item is the debate on draft law No 1672, already approved by the House of Deputies. The rapporteur, Senator Bottici, asked for permission to carry out the oral report. No comments were made and the request was accepted. I therefore call the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u12	Mr President, representatives of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, the bill of conversion of the decree-law comes to the House after an in-depth inquiry into the other branch of Parliament and an important confrontation between majority, opposition and government in the Senate's Finance and Treasury Committee. This measure defines a complex financial transaction, whereby up to EUR 900 million for 2020 are allocated to Invitalia one or more capital contributions. [[Brusio.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u13	Colleagues, there are already people who have to vote. Senator Bottici is conducting her speech, so if you wish to speak please go out or sit down.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u14	Please, Senator Bottici. BOTTICS, rapporteur. Thank you, Mr President. Invitalia is allocated one or more capital contributions up to EUR 900 million in 2020, entirely aimed at strengthening the assets of Mediocredito Centrale-Banca del Mezzogiorno (MCC). MCC is also allowed to promote financial and investment assets through the acquisition of capital participations of banks and financial companies. The measure intervenes, therefore, on the one hand, on structural objectives, being directed to contributing and promoting the overcoming of the situation of considerable undersizing that characterizes both the production system of the Mezzogiorno, and, in particular, the banking and financial system that operates at the service of that area of our country, and, on the other, on the economic crisis situation of the Banca Popolare di Bari, which has been subjected to the procedure of controlled administration by the Bank of Italy. In this regard, I would like to give some information on the economic and financial situation of Banca Popolare di Bari, updated to the report of 16 December 2019, carried out by the Bank of Italy. We are talking about a bank with a significant market share in Puglia, Basilicata and Abruzzo. Customers are just under 600,000, of which more than a sixth are companies accounting for 60% of jobs (about 6 billion euros). Deposits amount to EUR 8 billion, of which EUR 4.5 billion is of less than EUR 100,000 per unit and thus guaranteed by the interbank Deposit Protection Fund. The shares issued by Banca Popolare di Bari are widely distributed among the public of savers: the number of members is approximately 70,000, with an average participation of 2,500 shares. These data help us to understand what the impact of the crisis may have been on the socio-economic fabric of one of the most important credit institutions in the Mezzogiorno. Banking crises are all different and have specific characteristics. In the case of Banca Popolare di Bari, the crisis is due to a multiplicity of factors, which have emerged since 2010. As early as 2010, the Banca Popolare di Bari was subject to inspections concluded with a partially unfavourable assessment, due to shortcomings in the organisation and internal checks on the credit. Following these investigations, the Bank of Italy prohibited the Banca Popolare di Bari from expanding its business and imposed a specific capital requirement. Those measures were removed in June 2014, taking into account the actions taken and the reports provided by the internal control. In July following, the Bank of Italy authorised the Banca Popolare di Bari to acquire control of Banca Tercas, as part of a rescue operation accompanied by a contribution of 330 million euros from the interbank Fund for the protection of deposits. In the spring of 2015, the intervention of the interbank Deposit Protection Fund in favour of Banca Popolare di Bari was contested by the European Commission for the alleged configurability as State aid. Between 2014 and 2015 the bank carried out a capital strengthening operation for a total of 550 million, between issues of new shares (330 million) and placement of subordinated bonds (220 million), but this capital increase and bond collection were characterized, according to CONSOB, by violations of the rules of transparency of behaviour in the provision of investment services to the customers of the bank. Between 2016 and 2018 the bank failed to realize the entry into the company of investors able to increase its own resources. In the meantime there has been an acceleration of the deterioration of the business situation. On 18 June 2019 the Bank of Italy started a new inspection with the parent company. The results, officialized in December, show serious capital losses that have led prudential supervisory requirements to below regulatory limits. It is clear that, in the absence of state intervention, the economic consequences on the territories concerned would have been much more serious and far more disastrous than the ones that have been created. The instruments made available by the decree - which we will soon see in detail - need to be constantly followed and monitored, not only by the Government but, as well as the crises of the past teach us, also by Parliament, as well as by the Supervisory Authorities. Much has been discussed and deepened, both in Parliament's classrooms and in the press, on the reasons for the financial difficulties of the People's Republic of Bari, of how the system of controls has worked, of what the acquisition of Tercas has done, of how the values of the shares of the bank have been proposed to the buyers, of why the inadequate governance of the bank has not been more sanctioned in the past, of the timing of the start of the extraordinary administration that could have been arranged perhaps before the time when the measure was adopted. We can say that in the Commission, more than the controversy over the past, even if at times necessary, attention has prevailed in comparison to the future, to the necessary choices that are made with this decree, to the need that the measure under consideration is not only aimed at rescuing and relaunching the bank, but that it can actually provide all the instruments envisaged for the protection of customers and the protection of the socio-economic fabric of reference, in order to facilitate access to credit and the financing of families and businesses residing in the Mezzogiorno, which has always been affected by situations, including the context, particularly critical. I think it is worth remembering, in this regard, that following the negotiations initiated immediately by the extraordinary directors of Banca Popolare di Bari with Mediocredito Centrale and with the interbank fund for the protection of deposits, already at the end of last year have been assumed deliberations that have secured the bank and are the prerequisite for carrying out a strategic project for restructuring and relaunching the Banca Popolare di Bari by the middle of this year. This project envisages the transformation of the bank into a joint stock company, with the coverage of losses that will arise as a result of the assessments carried out by the commissioners and the concomitant recapitalisation of the bank by Mediocredito Centrale, the interbank Fund for the protection of deposits and other private investors that can hopefully be identified. With this in mind, the Board of the Interbank Fund unanimously approved an immediate intervention in favour of Banca Popolare di Bari for the amount of 310 million euros, as part of the broader plan to strengthen assets that can reach up to 1.4 billion euros to be implemented in the coming months. In addition, both the Fund and Mediocredito Centrale have signed, with Banca Popolare di Bari, a framework agreement defining the successive steps to be taken to complete the transaction in the framework of a pre-defined path and timing. The framework agreement contains, inter alia, the strategic lines of the industrial plan for the relaunch of the Apulian bank, the recovery of its economic and capital balance and the assumption by it of a central role in the financing of the economy of the Mezzogiorno. Coming to the merits of the measure more specifically, Article 1 provides for the assignment, with one or more decrees of the MEF, to the National Agency for the Attraction of Investments and the Development of Enterprise S.p.A. (Invitalia) capital contributions up to a maximum total amount of EUR 900 million for 2020. These loans will have to be used to increase the capital of the Bank of the Mezzogiorno - Mediocredito Centrale S.p.A. (MCC). The purpose of the transaction is to promote, according to logic, market criteria and conditions, the development of financial and investment activities in the Mezzogiorno, including in support of enterprises and employment, to be carried out through financial operations, including through the use of the acquisition of shares in the capital of banks and financial companies. As a result of these operations carried out by MCC, it is also possible to separate the same Institute and set up a new company, to which are assigned the aforementioned assets and holdings acquired by banks and financial companies. (The sitting was suspended at 10:33 a.m.) (The sitting was suspended at 10:33 a.m. and resumed at 10:33 a.m.) The shares representing the entire share capital of the company thus constituted will be assigned, without consideration, to the MEF. During the examination in the Chamber of Deputies it was also foreseen that the Bank of the Mezzogiorno, or the new company mentioned above, should report on a four-monthly basis to the Chamber and Senate Committees on the progress of financial operations carried out, including with regard to financial profiles, and on trends in employment levels, as well as to submit to the Chambers, by 31 January of each year, from 2021 onwards, an annual report on financial operations carried out during the previous year. At the time of the possible establishment of the company, the Ministry of Economics and Finance reports to Parliament on the choices made, the subsequent actions and the planned programmes. Article 1 also excludes the application to this new company of the Single Text on companies with public participation, referred to in Legislative Decree no. 175 of 2016, and also provides that the appointment of the relative board of directors is entrusted to the MEF, in agreement with the Minister of Economic Development. Also during the examination in the Chamber of Deputies it was also specified that the discipline on the requirements of good repute, professionalism and autonomy provided by the Single Banking Text for directors remains firm. Finally, the article exempts from each tax all the acts and operations provided for by it and allows the transfer, after quantification by the MEF, of the resources allocated to the intervention and not actually used to the budget of the State, with subsequent reallocation to the chapter of expenditure of origin. Article 2 provides that the burden arising from these transactions shall be covered by the corresponding use of the resources allocated to the capital participation of banks and international funds and shall authorise the MEF to make the necessary budgetary changes. Finally, Article 3 provides for entry into force. Let me close by thanking the majority and opposition senators, with whom we have carried out a constructive discussion which enabled the decree-law to arrive here today, after examining in the Commission the 21 amendments tabled by the opposition and working also to accept some agendas: from those relating to the protection of customers, with the timely payment of compensation to savers, the safeguarding of employment levels, proposals which, if not very close to the scope of the decree-law, are however of particular importance, such as the criticalities found on the opening and closing of current accounts and the classification and evaluation of the deteriorated credits. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u15	I declare that a question has been referred to the Court for a preliminary ruling. He asked Senator Faggi to intervene in order to explain the question referred for a preliminary ruling QP1. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw the attention of all of you to this measure. 10:39 a.m. (Follows FAGGI). Before explaining the question and reading the few institutional lines on the preliminary question of constitutionality, allow me to use a few minutes to focus attention on this measure. I would like to refer to a final explanation of vote by Mr Silvia Covolo della Lega on Tuesday 21 January 2020. The honourable Member says that, in the context of the work of the Finance Committee, there has been an opportunity to raise some of the players involved in the crisis of the People's Bank of Bari and also to discuss the amending proposals. Once the formal obstacles had been overcome, the Lega Group was expressing its position on the merits of Decree-Law 142 of 2019. The honourable Member goes on to say that the vote will be in favour. [[Brusio.]] I'm asking for some attention, because it's state money, it's not ours. The vote will be in favour because the purpose of the operation is to allow the capital strengthening of the Bank of the Mezzogiorno-MedioCredit central to allow it, together with the interbank fund for the protection of deposits, to participate in the relaunch of the Banca Popolare di Bari, through a capital contribution of 900 million euros of 2020. Still continuing, Mr Covolo refers to the fact that acting with urgent measures to enable the rescue of the national banking system, after the economic and financial crisis of the years 2000, is now a repeated practice of the legislator from 2015 onwards. It gives a series of examples, which I leave out here, but the most important part is the reference to Decree-Law No. 1 of 2019, by which the first Conte Government had granted state guarantees on the liabilities of new issue and the loans provided by Banca Popolare d'Italia to deal with the serious liquidity crisis of Banca Carige, already placed in extraordinary administration like the Banca Popolare di Bari. The Government itself, with the 2019 budget law, has tried to introduce forms of compensation for savers of institutions in crisis, progressively expanding the instruments already available, and in particular providing a financial envelope of 525 million euros for three years. The Savings Compensation Fund has also been regulated for all those who have suffered unfair injury in relation to investment in shares of banks in compulsory administrative liquidation: and there are many. The compensation for shareholders is proportionate to 30% of the purchase cost, while for bondholders it is 95% of the cost itself, up to the maximum limit of 100,000 euros for each saver. By ministerial decree of May 2019, operational arrangements for accessing the Fund were also laid down. From August 8th the portal for the presentation of requests is active. Savers, i.e. individuals, individual entrepreneurs, including farmers, direct farmers, voluntary and social promotion organisations, micro-enterprises with less than 10 people, have access to this fund. I mean, a whole crowd of people who've had serious damage from these situations. In the budget committee, we tried to point out this situation on 21 January. We were told that it was. I, on the other hand, in the light of the successive situations that have occurred, with reference to the arrest of father and son, president and managing director of the Banca Popolare di Bari, and to the two billion liabilities that are emerging, I would have liked some attention, because the situation was evolving and especially because it had already been clearly outlined to the House with a preliminary question. Without prejudice to the goodness, however, of the entire plant that instead carries the title " Urgent measures for the support of the credit system of the Mezzogiorno and for the realization of an investment bank" and that, as we have been clarified in the Committee on Budgets, was used to create a new bank that was a flywheel for the investments of the Mezzogiorno. And we are in favour of that. Therefore, given that the Government intervenes with this decree-law for the strengthening of the assets and financial capacities of the Bank of the Mezzogiorno - Mediocredito centrale... [[Brusio]] Mr. President, I can't talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u17	Senator Faggi, I also used the bell and I also consider it disrespectful for colleagues to repeat the same things every time. However, it seems to me that it repetits iuvant, so I would kindly invite the House to create a more silent and respectful atmosphere towards the colleague who is intervening. I'm not referring to anyone in particular, but it would be welcome. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, I think this is the situation because we have parliamentary immunity: I was the mayor, I had to be careful... PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Senator, please continue your speech on the subject. BEACHES (L-SP-PSd'Az). This strengthening operation, in second instance, will have to lead to the creation of a new company, to which will be assigned the assets and holdings acquired by the Bank of the Mezzogiorno in order to promote financial and investment activities in support of the enterprises of the Mezzogiorno, which - I repeat - is very important. However, in the enactment of the decree-law there is a clear violation of the constitutional precept that entrusts the exercise of the legislative function collectively to the two Chambers, pursuant to Article 70 of the Constitution. It is well known, in fact, how the use of the decree of urgency has for years been a form of imbalance and forcing of the balance of powers provided for by the current constitutional dictation, de facto shifting to the government every legislative power pertaining instead to the Chambers. This is all the more evident with the Giallorossi Government, which has for a few months already extensively abused the use of the decree of urgency with seven decree-laws in four months. The need and urgency, as referred to in Article 77 (2) of the Constitution, to address the matter of the strengthening of the assets of a state-controlled credit institution, moreover, is not repented by providing an increase of up to the maximum amount of 900 million euros, which can also take place during 2020, as expressly indicated by the Government in the explanatory report of the bill. It is also considered that it is not possible to address the issue of the historical gap between the Regions of the Mezzogiorno and the rest of Italy through the instrument of the decree of urgency, moreover at the end of the year, as the Government explicitly declares that it wants to do in the report illustrative to the bill, in defense of the legislative intervention put in place. The measure in these terms also risks being considered as an anti-competitive measure by the European Commission, which could revisit state aid, since it only benefits companies located in certain areas, all the more so by taking due account of the European Communication on State aid to banks of 10 July 2013. Therefore, pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, it is asked not to proceed to the examination of bill no. 1672 and kindly to dwell on the subject perhaps trying to supplement it giving absolute priority to those pensioners, those farmers and micro-enterprises who have had serious damage from the People's Bank of Sondrio.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u18	[[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u19	Pursuant to Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, a debate will take place on the question referred for a preliminary ruling, in which one representative per Group may speak for no more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u20	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u21	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u22	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, I was expecting everything this morning, except that a fill-in initiative should be taken, and that it should be referred to as a preliminary question. If there is a problem, with regard to the economy of the Mezzogiorno, which is becoming increasingly harmful, it is precisely that which coincides with the promotion of prejudiceal attitudes. It is not a game of words what I do, I do not borrow an intellectual game, but really, compared to the need that is felt in the Mezzogiorno of economic vitality to be recovered, of fairness and fairness in the relationship between finance, credit and vitality of enterprises, it is not necessary to promote any discussion entrusted to the breeze of prejudiceality. Instead, we must make sure that the truth of the complexity of this affair emerges. Days ago it emerged, as a gift of Google, an old document by Pasquale Saraceno that reminded us that we could have expectations of liberation of the Mezzogiorno only with the 2020-2021 programming tools, to remember the long march that has covered the Mezzogiorno of Italy from the first intuitions, when it was wanted at all costs rightly put at the center also the ability of the credit to push the vitality of the enterprises. At first we had the Banco di Napoli. Those who worked, studied, lived and reflected in the 20th century best know the founding role of the Banco di Napoli infrastructure. Then there was the storm of liberalism that shrunk when normal dimensions were needed, and it magnified when normal dimensions were still needed. So we found ourselves in front of a clearing of destruction of the ability to make credit. On this front we must not borrow even the thought of a great Abruzzo from the origins, I say it looking at the most adults of this House, because it is of Abruzzo origins, to be precise of Tornareccio, Alec Ross, who taught a generation of students how to approach the future. He reminded us how the ideas are certainly valid and they are a great part of the economy, but that ideas need financial coverage: in addition to the equity that puts us the holder of the ideas, we need a bigger coverage on the part of the credit system. Even the best Tremonti posed the theme of a Bank of the Mezzogiorno, so much so that that bank, very inhabited by the Post Office, was born on intuition of Tremonti. Why, then, should we give prejudice today to a debate that is finally taking up the measures? Thirdly, the need to ensure that the European framework of compatibility is respected. Eurostat should read that it specifies the compatibility conditions, all of which are met in the decree-law installation at our examination. So I wish you well. D'Annunzio said to let our brains go. Good job. [[Applause from the PD Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u23	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u24	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u25	FENU (M5S). Mr President, the question raised by the League seems to be an instrumental one, which is useful to make colleagues waste some time. We can agree on the considerations on the use, sometimes a little excessive, of the urgent decree and we have often talked about this in this House and also among ourselves; the former opposition and the current opposition have spoken about it. You can agree. In this case, however, we cannot agree, because we are talking about an intervention that is in the interest and is aimed at saving about 70,000 savers. We are talking about 3,000 workers and families and many companies that, without immediate intervention, would risk failure. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I believe that speaking of urgency in this case is quite inappropriate; urgency is necessary in this case. As well as it is necessary to think also of a new bank for the South. I would not like to use strong words, but I believe that in recent years there has been some sort of colonization of the southern banks by the banks of the North. This has also hurt the North because it has degraded the credit, weakening it towards the enterprises, also affecting the consumption of the products and the production of the North Italy. I therefore believe that this may be an opportunity to restore confidence to companies and southern savers. I also believe that the measure serves to start a new path in the South and to help the economy in some way. I would like to focus on one last aspect. It seemed to me quite instrumental in the reason that, through this urgent decree, we would like to address and resolve the historical gap between the southern regions and the northern regions. That also seems to me to be a rather out of place phrase. None of us claims to resolve the historical gap by means of a measure. However, it is clear that a path must be started and this was the occasion, in this urgent case, to be able to do so. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u26	Pursuant to Rule 93 (5) of the Rules of Procedure, I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the question referred by Senator Faggi for a preliminary ruling. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u27	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I read the text of the decree-law and the bill of conversion, I immediately noticed some critical aspects. I am a man from the Mezzogiorno and therefore I cannot but welcome the creation of an investment bank to support the business activities of the Mezzogiorno. So, something is always better than nothing, and in this respect the League welcomes the measure. Attention, however, does not imply that criticism, even harsh criticism, is not possible. The first comment concerns the resources made available. It seems to me that these resources are not adequate; they are not adequate if the measure conceals the intention to save the People's Bank of Bari. These resources do not seem to me to be sufficient if the aim of the measure is - and this is what can be seen from the textual reading of the documentation - to support business activities in the Mezzogiorno. But if it is to be rescued, then it is crucial and very important that these resources go to savers. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] , which must be protected before any other position. A second profile, which has created doubts in me, is the prediction of the creation of a second legal entity, that is, a second company. It seems to me that there is the government's strategy here to safeguard the administrators of the Bank of the Mezzogiorno: this already raises me the suspicion that there is the intention to separate debt from responsibility and this is not the cause of an efficient allocation of resources. I note that the measure, which is very general in terms of what I am about to highlight, lacks the criteria to ensure efficient allocation of resources. You see, colleagues, the South is littered with abandoned industrial sheds. My land in particular, after the earthquake has been the recipient of many funds, which have crossed not only my land, but all the South, more than a river, which notoriously brings well-being, vegetation, wealth and fruits, like a tsunami, leaving rubble behind. This happened because investments were made without assessing the specificities of those areas. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let us not forget that the South has a logistical gap. If we plant a company in the South, which produces the same product made in the North and the reference markets are in Central Europe, that company will never be competitive, because it will have to exceed from 800 to 1,000 kilometers away. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Damiani]] South is therefore a winner when we guarantee a quid pluris of innovation, study and research. The winning companies on the market, which fortunately exist in the South, are those that offer high quality products, thanks to research and innovation. I therefore believe that it is essential to draw attention to this profile and I hope that the statutes will be corrected. Alas, I must speak of'statutos', since the text refers precisely to two companies. It raises my doubts that creating an extra society can only serve to multiply the managerial positions. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] And we know what lies behind these goals. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, I have been very brief and I am using much less of the time available to me. I should like to conclude by saying that I have a concern: I would not like the measure before us to go a little further than Oscar Wilde's well-known aphorism: I love talking about nothing. It's the only argument I know everything about. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group and Senator Damiani. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u28	He's enlisted to speak Senator Damiani. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u29	Mr President, representatives of the Government, fellow senators, the issue of state aid to banks is easily suited to political exploitation, of which we have had extensive knowledge and experience in recent times, for some well-known events. Addressing this issue in this House requires a great sense of balance and, above all, clarity of intent, for a specific and particular case, such as that of the Banca Popolare di Bari, which assumes a connotation of public interest. I therefore believe that the debate in this House must be characterised primarily by the public interest, so much so that the same measure in our examination is entitled " Urgent measures for support for the credit system of the Mezzogiorno and for the establishment of an investment bank." Here are three key key words, which are present in the text of the measure: Mezzogiorno, credit system and investment. These are three key concepts, which we must have in mind, in the management of this criticality and this shock. I therefore hope that today's debate will be an opportunity for Parliament to address a much wider issue than the individual case and what has happened, with a broader view of the Mezzogiorno and its investments. We have always been critical in this House, we have also done so recently; we have done so against the First Count Government and we also do so against the Second Count Government, precisely because we lack a vision of investment policies for the Mezzogiorno and the fact that you have embarked on the path of welfare, with those that have been and are the negative results that we have denounced from the outset. Today we find ourselves in this House - as has already been said in the previous speech - dealing with the issue of investment in the South because a serious and shocking fact has happened such as the Commissariat of Banca Popolare di Bari, which - I would like to remind you - is a system bank: it is the most important system bank in the Mezzogiorno in Italy, with its more than 350 branches, 9 billion collection and 14 billion assets, 3,300 employees and 70,000 members. This is therefore an opportunity to discuss the problems of the Mezzogiorno. In a situation of extreme fragility of the economy in the South, with its unemployment rates above average, with the lack of infrastructure, the absence of incentives to enterprises, the bureaucracy that stifles, the high mortality of self-employment initiatives and the increasing tax burden, the impact of a shock event such as the affair of Banca Popolare di Bari multiplies its negative effects on the entire southern economic and financial system, and beyond. From these premises comes the need - I strongly support - for a state intervention, over which we have no prejudices whatsoever, nor simplistic positions, because we are well aware and aware of the complexity of the reality to be managed in a territory already proven by numerous negativity. Public intervention in support of troubled banking institutions is common practice in other European countries: in Germany, the impact on public debt of support measures to the national financial sectors was around 7% of German GDP at the end of 2017; in the United Kingdom, 4.3 percent; in Spain, 4.6 percent; in Austria, 9.5 percent and in Italy alone, the impact was estimated at less than 1.5% of GDP. Our country therefore has the lowest percentage of public support for the banking system, despite the financial sector making a significant contribution to national GDP. In fact, the financial sector of our country contributes to the national economy to a greater extent than both France and Germany. The point, therefore, with regard to this matter, is not whether to intervene or not, because it is clear that action is absolutely necessary. It is also supported by a recent ECB study, which acknowledged that public intervention is now needed to safeguard the financial stability of our countries. We don't have to hide behind a finger. The point is to translate today a single fact, the particular case in a wide-ranging strategy of intervention and support for the financial policies of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. This is the fundamental debate today. In summary, we all know the measure: they are allocated to Invitalia up to 900 million euros in 2020, aimed at strengthening the assets of the company Mediocredito Centrale - Banca del Mezzogiorno that, in turn, will be able to promote financial and investment activities, in support of the companies in the Mezzogiorno, also through the acquisition of participations in the capital of banks and financial companies. The text of the measure does not specifically mention the Banca Popolare di Bari, but we all know - it has been publicly announced - that a capital increase will be arranged that will allow Mediocredito Centrale, together with the interbank Fund for the protection of deposits (FITD) and any other investors, to participate in the relaunch of the Banca Popolare di Bari. With regard to this operation - I want to be clear and clear immediately the field from doubts - Forza Italia absolutely maintains its position of coherence and responsibility. We approve of the intervention in the banking system to protect accountants, bondholders and shareholders, for whom we hope an effective and not only announced refreshment. We do this in favour of the employees of the bank and the economy of a territory that is already fragile. There are 3,300 workers concerned. And above all, we are talking about a long history of contributing to the growth of the local entrepreneurial fabric. This is our position and it is always consistent in support for these reasons. It is, however, on the wider table of the revival of Southern Italy, which I support, that the game must be played and not on the single case. We all know that it is difficult for companies in the South to finance themselves; the cost of money and financing in the South cost more than the Centre-North (1.6 points more). It is a game that you play on a table even wider and more important. At this moment it is also essential to consider the possibility of aggregation between the most popular precisely in order to achieve economies of scale. But the project must also open up to other contributions and aim at involving in the fate of the southern economy intermediaries who are also healthy carriers of greater efficiency. In the Mezzogiorno, the problems to be solved also have other dimensions and are as different as the difficulty of accessing credit; a lower efficiency of the administrative machinery; less availability of public resources and, at times, long justice times; unfortunately, also the presence of crime that stifles the economy of the Mezzogiorno. Mr President, no one today is expecting miracles from the creation of a public investment bank. However, it is fundamental and - I would say - necessary at a time of crisis such as the current one to give a united signal of trust by increasing and trying not only to safeguard the individual case, but also and above all to look to the general interest and, therefore, increase the availability and resources for initiatives of development of the Mezzogiorno of Italy. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u30	He's enlisted to speak Senator Marino. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u31	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Senators and Senators, Mr Undersecretary, we are dealing with a very important measure which, once again, the Senate has not been able to manage and with which there is a substantial commitment. We have to admit it. We are facing de facto monocameralism and perhaps, if we had implemented the constitutional reform, at least we would have included it in the Constitution, but we are doing so. Having said this, schematically, the decree-law has basically two objectives: the first of a structural character is to promote the overcoming of the situation of undersizing the production system of the Mezzogiorno, with a particular attention to banking and financial systems and the other, instead, of a cyclical nature - we call things with their name and surname - concerns the Banca Popolare di Bari. For the structural objective, the dimensional gap between the production and financial system of the Mezzogiorno and the rest of Italy, which has already historically increased, has expanded considerably during the double recession that went from 2007 to 2013. This has happened considerably, so much so that the 2018 figures tell us that the GDP of the South is still 10 points less than that of 2007, when the same figure for Italy is 4 points less, while for the European Union it is in line with the pre-crisis side. Thus, the southern companies are in a situation of lower productivity because the smaller the size; they struggle to make investments and development and to export to international markets. Southern banks, which are involved in financing local small and medium-sized enterprises, suffer from an excessively small size. It is clear from all this that there is a need for action to help overcome these dimensional deficits. The second topic, however, is that of a cyclical nature, that is - as I said - the crisis of the Banca Popolare di Bari. Bankitalia gives us a picture of the economic and patrimonial situation of Banca Popolare di Bari very precise, articulated and - I would say - almost exhaustive. The rapporteur also referred to this in part. It is important, however, to focus on some of these aspects. We know that the Banca Popolare di Bari has a significant market share in Puglia, Basilicata and Abruzzo; 600,000 customers; 100,000 companies representing about 60% of the intermediary's jobs, a significant mass (8 billion deposits, of which 4.5 billion is less than 100,000 euro and, therefore, protected by the interbank deposit protection fund). There is, however, the sensitive and important issue of actions, which are widespread in the public of savers. First, the rapporteur spoke of about 70,000 shareholders who have an average stake of about 2,500 shares. You know that the mechanism for determining the price of the people's shares is decided by the assembly. Well, the assembly that approved the bank's financial statements in 2015 lowered the price from €9.53 to €7.50. In this way it has caused a significant imbalance between the sales requests and those of purchase, forcing to suspend that internal activity of crossing of the orders of the customers that the bank offered between its services, and has led to data for which on 31 December 2016 there were orders of sale for 38,9 million shares, that correspond to a quarter of the capital. In November 2019, the latest contracts were concluded at EUR 2.38: you understand the damage that savers have had. At the same time, on the NPL side, from 12.6 percent of 2011 portfolio credits to 22.9 of 30 June 2019. There is a valid base, there are 350 branches; in many territories closing that bank would mean closing the only bank in the country; there are 3,000 employees. But the theme is: how did you get to such data? It is spontaneous to question this. The reading of newspapers, especially of the Republic of Ireland, has made an interesting investigation these days, gives us a disturbing picture, which emerged, however, also from the observations made by Bankitalia: poor management with a lack of transparency, serious problems of governance, a lack of control functions. But not only Bank of Italy, Consob also noted these elements and, during the capital increase - between 2014 and 2015 - highlighted and sanctioned several violations of the rules of transparency in the provision of investment services to the customers of the bank. What happened? Products from the bank itself - shares, bonds, subordinates - were sold to customers who were not always able to understand the real levels of risk. Now, since this is a scheme that we have already seen repeated in other banks, perhaps we too - on this I will return quickly afterwards - should be called upon to do so. It is clear, in fact, that any underwriter of bonds and shares that are the subject of misselling must be repaid and helped by the State and that the seller must be sanctioned, but there must also be control mechanisms that allow for incisive action. Regulators, members, customers: no one was satisfied with the Banca Popolare di Bari, and the data is confirmed - funny! - by the referee of the financial disputes that, in the annual report of 2018, shows that out of the 1,800 appeals of that year - think - 13 percent alone concerned the Banca Popolare di Bari, which was the first in this type of proceeding. So - as I said before - even watchers need to be careful. Let me say that it is today that the Banking Committee of Inquiry has been set up. Well, I think it is an important instrument that Parliament has equipped itself with. However, I would like to point out that the Commission in the last parliamentary term had given indications for 22 instruments that it would have been appropriate to start applying precisely because they highlighted the same behaviour that we are currently denouncing. In medias res, the decree-law under consideration prepares 900 million euros for the strengthening of the assets of the company Mediocredito Centrale - Banca del Mezzogiorno, through Invitalia. It is the picture that has also been made by those who preceded me. What do you want to do? On the one hand, we lay the foundations for the creation of an investment bank that can support the credit system of our South; on the other hand, we work for the rescue and the industrial relaunch - very important - of the Banca Popolare di Bari, commissioner from Bankitalia after the recognition of prudential requirements of capital inferior to those of the norm. This is absolutely necessary, as were those for the four banks, for the Venetian banks, for MPS, for Carige, but I will speak on this in the explanation of vote, because on the point a political consideration is necessary. All this was aimed at protecting the financial stability of our country. Fires must be extinguished before fires start, in order to avoid running to deposits, in order to prevent irreversible damage, which is also likely to spill over to healthy banking institutions. Moreover - as we all know - the total expenditure of the Italian State in support of the banks was laughable and absolutely inferior to that carried out by the other European States, even after the banking communication of 1 August 2013. And these can only be elements on which an in-depth reflection is more necessary than ever. To conclude, we must learn from mistakes and it is therefore desirable for us of the Gruppo Italia Viva - P.S.I. a radical transformation of the governance of the Banca Popolare di Bari into a public limited company. I remember the reform of the popular banks made by the Renzi government. It is true that some accused her of being a reform imposed from above, unlike the one concerning cooperative credit banks, which we, as a Parliament, have given an important role with the Memorandum of Understanding between banking foundations and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Finance. However, some themes had been seen and some happy indications had been given above all by the governors of the Bank of Italy Draghi and Visco. Popular banks are a virtuous reality close to the territory, which operates in the interest of businesses and people. However, it is necessary to go all the way to achieving that transformation, envisaged as an obligation for those who had more than 8 billion assets, followed by eight out of ten banks and not two, the Banca Popolare di Sondrio and the Banca Popolare di Bari. Imagine what would have happened if this had been done. There is a need for intervention using market logics and criteria that also involve private parties, so as to limit costs for the State, for an industrial revival involving various actors, starting with the interbank deposit protection fund. Under these conditions the rescue of the Banca Popolare di Bari is sustainable and its industrial revival is credible. Similarly, it is credible to create an investment bank that can consolidate and unite the southern credit system. Vote in favour of this measure means protecting savers, defending jobs and helping the entire credit system. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u32	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the students and teachers of the Institute of Higher Education (Fermi-Filangieri) of Formia, present in the gallery. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u33	Senator Zaffini is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measure before us this morning contains urgent measures to support the credit system in the Mezzogiorno and to set up an investment bank. I think I am an easy prophet if I say that, after some time, we can easily verify that both objectives will not be achieved. The title of the decree-law is not unique in its kind, but follows a fashion - regrettable as far as I am concerned - of the holder measures with great lies. This is yet another measure containing in its title a great lie, as there is no support for the credit system of the Mezzogiorno. Colleagues, I was addicted to the then glorious Banco di Sicilia, although not Sicilian. I have seen the extinction of very important banks such as the Banco di Napoli and the Banco di Sicilia, already issuing institutions. There is no interest shown by the national legislator to date for the Mezzogiorno, first, and then for its credit system. Nor is there any interest in the creation of an investment bank. It's pure demagogy. Having said that, we do not miss the need for a rescue measure of a bank as important as the People's Republic of Bari. We are not unaware of the fact that some of our colleagues say that public aid - let us call it this - to the Italian credit system is less than the resources allocated by other European countries. Germany has been cited. Let me make a joke: the Deutsche Bank problem has not yet arrived. When the Deutsche Bank problem comes to an end, I imagine that Germany will go much further than the current summary of resources directed to the aid of the credit system. Our criticism of this measure is a system. It is a commercial measure, yet another one after a series of measures that I am not listing - colleagues - but that you will all remember, to rescue other banks, which have followed in the history of our credit system: Banca Marche, Banca Etruria, CariChieti, CariFerrara, Popolare di Vicenza, Veneto Banca, CR-Cassa di risparimento di Rimini, Cesena e San Miniato, Monte de' Paschi di Siena, Carige - which would then be my last banking port - Banca del Fucino and today Banca Popolare di Bari. These are spot measures in the absence of a system measure which should do nothing else - colleagues - but simply read a reality that has changed profoundly and has seen a profound change in the intermediary function of the banking system. It has seen the role of financing of the economy and, that is, of the enterprises, of our Country, in the absence, moreover, of a system of exchange that can somehow summarize the lack of financing of the national economic system. It has seen a profound change in the social function of Italian banks, their territorial presence: the simple network of ATMs has been deeply mowed. He's seen a change in the private financing system. Think of consumer credit, which has been completely left in the hands of private companies, which evidently make the maximization of profit their sacrosanct and legitimate goal. Just look at the rate that is applied to consumer credit. The system of financing private and households has been abandoned, which is probably even more serious than having abandoned the system of financing companies, at least from a social point of view. The system of support for savings has been completely left to the market. Think of the story, already mentioned, of the information prospectuses of the capital increases, compared to which advance a legislative provision, which we will present in the coming days as Brothers of Italy, to protect the need to adequately inform savers when compiling the information prospectuses. I am not afraid of being denied if I say that all the increases in bank capital, in the last three, four or five years, have been characterized by information statements at least lacking, if not definitely liars. There is a large amount of cases brought; only in the capital increase of Monte de' Paschi dozens and dozens of cases have been brought in this regard. All the management of savings has been left to the so-called market. Think of the story clearly following the global crisis of the so-called NPLs, the deteriorated credits, and the bail-in, which you all know, on which a real social scourge is being manifested, colleagues: over 240,000 homes will go to auction in the coming months; there are over 1 million and 400,000 subjects involved in the procedures following the transfer of the presumed deteriorated credits, necessarily deemed to have deteriorated, transferred to the private system, very often participated, hidden or clearly, by the same banks, making profit on the people's skin. These are loans, sometimes backed by mortgage guarantees, sold at 15-20 per cent of their nominal value. All this has generated a system of speculation on the part of the citizens, totally left to the observer, the reporter and evidently not concerning the legislator. I am still quoting the financialization of the economy, the country's entry into the euro. All these things, colleagues, have not happened, no one has seen them. As for the banking system, its regulation, the actual system, the framework is that, it has not changed, it is the same as before, nothing happened for the national legislator. We continue to produce commercial measures that are urgently needed to rescue important credit realities without providing for a system standard that takes note of the various changes that I have simply, quickly and very superficially listed and which today leave you disappointed. The resources are spent with the logic of current expenditure and rescue, without understanding that perhaps huge resources, if invested instead in a system measure, would have led today a modernization of the system, a take-up of the changes that have occurred and also an update of the controls and of the whole inspection apparatus. Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, but today - with all due respect for the fine professionals who work there - the Bank of Italy is for what? What is the so-called Central Institute for? Today a bank of only 15-16 branches is already under the aegis of the European Central Bank, and I could give examples by simply quoting names. Time is what it is and, in order to deal with all the matter, we would need an entire day of deepening. The proximity bank has failed. There is no liquidity needed for the economy, because it is drained by the public debt system. The two main Italian credit institutions (the whole system of Unicredit and Banca Intesa) are now practically in foreign hands and hold good half of the Italian public debt. All this alarming picture, to say the least, cannot continue to be left prey to adventurers and to the observer and the reporter. A system measure is needed. Someone's gonna have to do it sooner or later. We are counting on a Government other than the present one, a strong Government that is aware of Italy's problems and wants to remedy them. [[Applause from the FdI Group and Senator Rizzotti]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u35	She is registered to speak Senator Messina Assuntela. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this decree-law aimed at supporting the credit system of the Mezzogiorno, the Government has intended to intervene to protect savings in Italy and to defend the business system and the ability to provide credit. The measure, in the action of relaunching the policy of recapitalisation of the banking system of our South, manages to give a rapid and effective response to the emergencies emerged especially after the commissioning of the Banca Popolare of Bari: protection of savers and bondholders, that is, of the thousands and thousands of families that have invested much of their savings in the activities of the bank; safeguarding the jobs put in serious danger from the crisis in progress. We are talking about the plan to create the Bank of the Mezzogiorno as a public-led credit institution, which can help in Italy to rebalance the deficit in the cost of money between North and South of the country and, therefore, to reduce one of the structural elements of the economic gap of the South, that is, the cost of access to credit. An agile institution, but capable of operating in market terms in favour of companies and territories in Southern Italy requires that this Parliament and politics should not forget the issue once the decree has been converted. In fact, in order to operate as Banca del Mezzogiorno public policies need to give the role of the investment bank a message, a content that is not only that of the network of branches, but also that of being protagonist and actor in a new season of investments in South Italy. This process goes through the mobilization of public resources and the competition of private resources. The Banca Popolare di Bari itself can succeed in the mission of becoming attractive to other southern credit institutions, so that a credit offer network can be established in the Mezzogiorno of Italy, but provided that it operates in a context of real credit business, in compliance with the rules and laws of the market. The decree-law in question - it is important to emphasize and specify it - definitively puts the word end to a method of management of savings that can only be defined totally improper and that has caused the strong decay of a symbol of an entire territory, not only Apulian. We therefore place our full trust in the investigative bodies so that they can shed light on the facts and responsibilities of the summits of the Banca Popolare. The Government and this Parliament have a duty to provide a rapid response to remedy the very serious mistakes that have been made. The decree-law under consideration today allows first of all to protect the accountants and savers of the People and, at the same time, to impose a very strict regime of control and monitoring of the bank, which will prevent for the future the repetition of shameful mistakes, happened also in the past. In this regard, we must do everything possible to unblock as soon as possible the ministerial decree on the new rules concerning the professionalism and good repute of bank managers, so that in two months or in a year, we do not find ourselves in front of the despair of those who have lost the savings of a lifetime and the faultless failure of dozens of companies, with thousands of layoffs and territories on their knees. Specifically, the decree-law provides for the allocation to Invitalia of contributions of up to 900 million euros in 2020 to strengthen the assets of the Central Mediocredito, with the objective of allowing the promotion of financial investment activities, especially in support of the enterprises of the Mezzogiorno, to support the employment and give new impetus and new vitality to the economy of the territory. Article 1 also provides for the possibility of splitting MCC and setting up a new company to which these assets are assigned and the holdings acquired by banks and financial companies. The shares representing the entire share capital of the company thus constituted will be attributed to the Ministry of Economy and Finance to ensure that it is properly operated in the near future. It should be borne in mind that three important amendments to the text have been made with specific interventions in the parliamentary committees, which I thank for their work. First, it is expected that the Single Text of the companies with public participation in the new company to which the participations of the Bank of the Mezzogiorno may be conferred will not apply, while confirming the indispensable requirements of good repute, professionalism and autonomy of the new managers, provided for by the Single Bank Text. Secondly, an obligation is imposed to report every four months to the relevant parliamentary committees on the progress of financial operations, including to know the developments, in terms of job protection, of the staff of the institution. In addition, Parliament is obliged to submit a report to Parliament by 31 January each year on the operations carried out in the previous year and, in the event of the establishment of a new company, the task of reporting on choices and programmes by the Minister for Economic Affairs. With this measure we will be able to quickly relaunch the largest credit institution in South Italy, a reality that has been able to do much better than what has emerged in recent weeks. The People of Bari has supported for sixty years the economic and entrepreneurial fabric of the Mezzogiorno, promoting growth, development and employment in many areas of Southern Italy. The new Bank of the Mezzogiorno will inherit this fundamental function by giving a whole territory new opportunities for development and investment, to recover the gap with the North and to restart even more the southern economy, hard hit by this scandal of which it is essential to ascertain the responsibilities. And this is expected not only because it is right, but also to give a strong and unequivocal signal of change in credit management, to ensure citizens and restore confidence in the banking system. In essence, I would like to stress that our action does not end today with the rescue of the Banca Popolare di Bari and the establishment of the Banca del Mezzogiorno. Our work begins today and must be wisely and lucidly aimed at relaunching the credit system in the South, first of all through a renewed seriousness in its management, in order to restore the trust that has failed and rebuild the conditions of a healthy and lasting relationship with the territory. That is why we need more than ever to send out a positive message, a message from this Parliament and steps for national and local institutions, just as it has been in recent weeks. And we must also be able to pass it on to people who feel rightly betrayed today and see their trust betrayed. We must appreciate, in fact, beyond the interest of the political representatives who immediately listened to the requests of the territory, the intercourse started in the last hours by extraordinary commissioners of the Banca Popolare of Bari, through meetings with representatives of consumer associations, for an important opening on possible compensations for, first and foremost, small savers and in general shareholders. To continue to do all this, to walk on this path, we need concreteness, passion and involvement. And we also need a policy that, critically revisiting itself, passing also through demanding decisions, underpins the concreteness of its commitment, realizing the responsibility of reopening a channel of dialogue and a positive confrontation between civil society and institutions; a policy that redefines itself and redetermines, thus, its nature of exclusive exercise in favour of citizens and the common good. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Nencini]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u37	She's registered to speak Senator Faggi. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u38	Mr President, I am absolutely obliged to clarify my position on a number of points, which have not been addressed to me personally, but which have, in any case, touched on the matter in the preliminary ruling. Certainly, I often like to speak with a joke and perhaps with some funny words, to try to lighten a tense climate rather than a little 'distracted. This is, however, about public money and people who have lost a lot of money. Far from me, therefore, any form, just character, of filling. I don't like it. I don't have the personal habit of trying to fill my mouth with words just to have my minutes at the microphone. I've never been, neither politically nor in character. I like to joke, but when it comes to res publica, I like to be careful, so I don't like to fill my mouth with words in the wind. Maybe I'll make a mistake. Maybe I can say things that are not shared, because I belong to a political minority. Usually, however, I can connect the brain to the language and I find it quite distorted the image of person who wants, in some way, to cloud or give a different image than we are currently treating. That is my premise, which is neither a justification nor an excusatio. It is a feeling, because I feel institutionally called upon to respond to the situation in question. I would like to recall the clarification given before me by my colleague Ugo Grassi, whom I thank for the small lesson in life he has offered us. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] He began by saying that he was a man of the South with a pride that really enlightened me, because he himself said he saw rivers of money passing that flooded the lands of the South and left a tsunami, but they didn't grow anything. In what he said, there's everything. The measure under consideration is important and will certainly also have our vote in favour, but here we cannot hide the fact that it had to be divided into two parts: an account is the creation of an investment bank for the recovery of the Mezzogiorno, an account is also to include in the measure the rescue arrangements of a bank that registers a frightening liability and that leaves practically bare many people, many shareholders who no longer have anything. Among other things, reading the statements of Minister Gualtieri it is to be considered that for these savers, for the shareholders of this bank there are no conditions for recourse to the savings fund activated for the previous financial disruptions; we can intervene with incentives and instruments of settlement of disputes for cases of irregular sale. Therefore, this is already another news, although part of the measure under consideration pays full attention to the attempt to recapitalise or rescue a bank in serious difficulty. Personally, I would have preferred a measure, even as a matter of urgency, which could be divided into two parts: one dedicated to the Mezzogiorno, with what other colleagues have already said, and a part devoted to the rescue of the bank. I was also puzzled by the attitude of my colleagues from Forza Italia and Fratelli d'Italia, who agreed with what I am saying, even though they highlighted it differently, according to their feelings. They have also pointed out that the decree-law in question presents some critical issues and they have suggested a definitely strong attention to the lands of the Mezzogiorno, placing an emphasis, not of fear but of perplexity, on the situation of the People's Bank of Bari that has been dragging for years. Colleagues, we have made a preliminary ruling, you could vote on it; not only did you not abstain, you voted against it. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I did not ask for it to be approved (we are in the minority), but if you agree with me about the goodness of the measure under consideration but you have some concerns, you should have clearly supported a question of reference which had no intention of filling in, except to propose to this honourable Member that I agree to stop us, to carry on our Mezzogiorno, an important part of Italy that can be really fly for an Italy that has a value in its entirety, and to deal with the part about banks in another section. I am told that she has arrived late; all right, but I was speaking and, if I must be honest, I must point out that you were all turned on the other side; so maybe, even if the question referred had arrived late, you could support her to give a strong signal to the Italians. With the preliminary ruling, or at least by stopping this measure, we do not want to stop what needs to be done for the Mezzogiorno; we just want to work more transparently, calling things by their real name. There is a name for everything: it is necessary to set up a bank for the Mezzogiorno which is a driving force for investment. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Secondly, it is necessary to find the mechanism to be put in place for the popular bank of Bari, for its shareholders and for those who have lost the money. You shouldn't mix things up, give them a different title. It is not good, it is not fair, and this has also been observed in the Budget Committee, where a week has been kindly requested to make the necessary assessments, and this request did not mean any controversy but merely the intention to carry out a deepening, an increase, to make a contribution. This is the minority. I have adapted, I have adapted - for God's sake, we would miss something else - but you have to be aware that even the minority can make a contribution - perhaps specifically technical and not on the subject - that could certainly have clarified a certain type of position. In fact, after the vote, the measure will have to be declined on the territory, it will have to be explained, it will have to pass a correct message. Nine hundred million are many, but the debts that the bank has left amount to two and nine hundred million, three hundred of which should go to the Banca Popolare of Bari, which following the current situation I do not know how it will become. I'm actually a drop in the sea. I certainly do not fill my mouth, but perhaps the provision is a little too inflated and lacking in real content. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u39	Senator Pichetto Fratin is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, there are two issues in the measure before us: the crisis of the People's Bank of Bari and the programme of government, because it was precisely in the government programme of the current majority that the investment bank for the South was strengthened through the Central Mediocredito. This results in a double assessment. I believe that our assessment should also take into account the general picture of the banking system because the situation of the People's Bank of Bari is nothing more than the most recent of a long sequence of similar situations also mentioned by previous interventions. The rapporteur, Senator Bottici, has given a comprehensive picture of the situation of the Bank and its size, and therefore the negative impact of a possible default of the Bari People's Bank. Just think of the six hundred thousand customers or the one hundred thousand enterprises and the meaning they have for a vast area of the South. I believe that the Commissioners will certainly have to make an assessment of the nemesis of this situation and this default as well as the consequent actions to restore the system. Certainly the crisis has occurred, at least according to the information we have, because of loans not covered by appropriate guarantees. Surely the judiciary will also make all the appropriate assessments on the hypothesis of malversations and therefore criminal and civil liability. It will also be necessary to assess the disposal operations of the NPLs, probably with assessments which, according to some, did not have total consistency. There is the market factor and there is the South factor, reason for the underlying reasoning on the South Investment Bank, but there is also the role of the Bank of Italy in the game of the moral suasion for Bank Tercas; I would like to remind you that there has been an accompaniment and even an invitation in this direction. Then there is the role of the European Union in the use of the Interbank Fund, because the years of impediment to the use of the Interbank Fund have had their weight and, last but not least, there is the role of supervision up to the present day. Fortunately, Italian banking law and bankruptcy law do not provide for bankruptcy for credit institutions, but for winding-up proceedings. This is because the rule has as its main interest the public interest and, precisely the numbers that the rapporteur has expressed, tell us what the great public interest of this issue is. Let me make a comparison: Lehman Brothers compared to the world was nothing; try to imagine the effect its failure had on the world, however with the American system. I therefore believe that the assessment must be carried out fully both for what has been the nemesis of the path, and, in a rigorous, serene and transparent way, in the use of an instrument that, precisely because of the delicacy of the credit system, must be handled with caution, beyond the debate between the choices of the last governments regarding more or less similar situations, but that certainly invest a larger match. Allow me just one note. We talked about the People's Bank of Bari; I did not find any measures concerning the People's Bank of Bari. With a novation in the sources of law, as the experts of law teach me, we use a press release as a source of law. By now, in my past life as a tax collector, I am accustomed to press releases, even after the deadline set by the extensions. So there must be no more wonder. However, since we are in Parliament, I would have liked the Government to have found a more formal form of communication to Parliament than is an intention which can be seen in agreement with us on this path. The Government has used this instrument to initiate the strengthening of the so-called Investment Bank for the South through 900 million on Invitalia, which is the 100% shareholder of the Central Mediocredito, with a series of precautionary assessments in the measure that concern the hypothetical split, but without giving it for sure; rightly, because it is necessary to make some reflections. So there is the possibility to acquire assets, or to co-manage assets with the People's Bank of Bari. (at 12 o'clock) (Following PICHETTO FRATIN). I believe that the operation can be promoted; therefore we have the Bank of the Mezzogiorno, which is strengthened also with the possible division, and the Central Mediocredito that flanks the People's Bank of Bari or acquires part of the assets. Moreover, I also appreciated the fact that the measure provides for the remuneration of capital not only for a compulsory and formal fact, because otherwise the European Union would ask us why it does not work, but why I believe that the operations to be carried out must meet an economic criterion. If we do not operate cheaply, we probably save some positions, but at the expense of others and therefore it is not worth it. However, a consideration must be made here, with respect to one and the other choice. The measure in question, in addition to allowing us to assess the faults and opportunities, must serve to a serious deepening of our banking system, beyond the Commissions of investigation or investigation. It is okay to set up the Committees of Inquiry, because this is also part of our role, but I would like to remind you that our banking system, with the measures of 1926-1927 and then with the banking law of 1936, was hierarchical and had extreme clarity, which allowed the passage of the period of the Second World War, from 1940 to 1945, and the sixty following years, at least until 1990, without great situations of discomfort. Certainly there have been uncomfortable situations, but they have not been enormous, despite the zero value of the lira in the war period. There was clarity: there were the institutions of public law, among which I would like to mention the New San Paolo banking institute, the Monte dei Paschi di Siena, the Banco di Napoli and the Banco di Sicilia, the three banks of national interest, Credit, Comit and Banco di Roma, the private ordinary credit banks, the most important of which was the National Bank of Agriculture, the moral bodies, the savings banks, which were public entities, which united the two important functions of public interest and territoriality, or of attention to the territory. Mr President, I would like to ask you two more minutes to finish my speech. This system had the characteristic of specialization: if you lend your customers the money at thirty years, you had to collect them at thirty years. The collection and use had to be related: this was the strength of that system. In 1990, following the guidelines of the European Commission of the EEC, today the European Union, there was the liberalisation of the legal structure, in order to modernise and be more competitive. But there was also the creation of the universal bank, which can do anything and no longer has correlation between collection and employment. Perhaps we really need to get our hands back on the ground and check - and, of course, with the commitments to the European Union, of which we are a part - our banking system, to understand how it should work and how supervision should be. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u41	Senator Pesco is enlisted to speak. You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u42	Mr President, I can only be satisfied with today's adoption of this measure, on the very day on which the work of the Committee of Inquiry into Banks is under way, for which a President of the 5 Star Movement has been chosen. We are full of pride and very confident that this Commission will be able to explore what has happened in our banking system, in order to actually understand the causes of the evils that have plagued our banks. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] I am sure that all political forces will do a great job for this purpose. Mr President, this measure has two aims. The most important is to be able to give a real boost to the banking and banking system of Southern Italy, in order to be able to facilitate the creation of investments. Then there is also the aim of fixing a situation a little problematic, let's say, referred to the People's Bank of Bari. It is done through an activity that must be and that will be on the market, but the State, however, to ensure that things will go well, has given the availability of financial resources, useful to secure the People's Bank of Bari. It is a bank in difficulty, as we have seen so many in recent years. That's why I think it's best to think about what it's like to be a bank. Banking, for a credit institution, means lending money that is not yours and this is a very delicate business. Let's think about what would happen if one day we all decided to go and withdraw our savings all together: these savings are not there and therefore the banks would be difficult. We need to know that, and that is why the banks - we are aware of this - would be forced to center their refunds. We have to realize that banking is certainly a very profitable business, but also very delicate, for which we cannot get carried away. Unfortunately, however, in recent years many entrepreneurs, banks, executives and managing directors have gotten their hands on it and have provided more credits than they could provide, without the necessary guarantees. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] This, in my opinion, is the main cause of the bank disruptions that have occurred. Then, of course, European legislation also has a role to play, perhaps a little too strict in granting credit to banks that are a little too soft like our own. This could be a cause, but the trusts and easy credits are the main reason for the failure, otherwise we would not have reached 330 billion of bank suffering: this is the value of suffering, i.e. the deteriorated credits not returned to the banks, which fortunately at a net level is much lower. Billions have been burned to cover bank losses. But 330 billion is really a lot, and that means something's going on. As an example, I cannot but mention the Banca Popolare di Bari, an emblematic case which will certainly be studied by the Committee of Inquiry into Banks, but we cannot fail to mention an easy national case of credit. I am referring to the entrepreneur Francesco Bellavista Caltagirone, who, thanks to his holding companies, received - and I quote the data - several hundred million euros: 45 million from Banca Etruria; 60 million from Monte dei Paschi di Siena; 70 million from Carife; 70 million from Carige; 65 million from Veneto Banca; several tens of millions from the People's Republic of Vicenza; 120 million from BNL; 110 million from Banco Popolare, not to mention 240 million from a series of banks, including Unicredit. As for the People of Bari, we still do not know if it has paid money to Caltagirone, but also on this we will light a lighthouse. That means something didn't work out. But what didn't work if a person and a holding company could have received so much resources? It means whoever was supposed to check didn't check properly. Also on this we will light a lighthouse, because in our opinion the vigilance cannot fail to have responsibility for what happened to the People of Bari. We enter in the merit: already in 2010 it was known that the People of Bari was bad and there were inspections of the Bank of Italy, so much so that Bank of Italy has stated that the People of Bari could no longer make banking acquisitions. This ban strangely, at a certain point, disappears into nothingness, so much so that the People of Bari is authorized - or perhaps, let's say, "facilitated" - in the acquisition of Bank Tercas, a bank in difficulty that could be saved in another way and instead was acquired by the People of Bari through precious resources. There is talk of EUR 500 or 700 million. Well, Bank Tercas, a very difficult bank, could be saved in an alternative way. The Interbank Deposit Protection Fund could intervene, which did not happen because of a European ban. There was no intervention on Tercas and in the same way there was no intervention on the four banks, which could certainly be settled with the interbank deposit protection fund, and this is because Europe prevented us by a decision of the European Commission, competition section. Well, Europe itself, through the European Court of Justice, then told us that that decision was wrong. Therefore, for a wrong decision we did not intervene with the Interbank Fund either on Tercas, or on the four banks, causing considerable damage to our nation, money that we had to spend to save the four banks and compensate savers. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] On this I recall that there are two motions (one presented by myself), signed by the Movimento 5 Star Group, to ask Europe to return the malt, that is, to compensate our nation that has been so penalized by that decision. We return to Tercas, which the Interbank Fund could not save and which was acquired by the Banca Popolare di Bari, a bank in difficulty that probably had to do other things instead of acquiring banks and had to restore its balance sheet, which did not happen. Fortunately there are the State and the citizens and fortunately, if you have to do something, you try to secure the bank, the savers, the workers and the productive fabric of those Regions. Thanks to what we are doing in Parliament during this parliamentary term, we have come to the result that we have deposited a bill that can really provide solutions and make sure that things like this do not happen again. I am referring to the bill presented by my colleague and friend, Senator Elio Lannotti, on the banking disaster, which states that banking entrepreneurs who are responsible for disasters and bank failures due to non-missive conduct or responsibilities related to their work can go to jail and suffer penalties ranging from four to twelve years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] The same penalties are also reserved for those who have not monitored or watched in a distorted way. President, announce the vote in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u43	The general debate is closed. As the rapporteur does not wish to speak in her reply, I call the representative of the Government.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u44	Mr President, the rapporteur, Mrs Bottici, explained very well in her report the nature and purpose of the measure and, in some cases, also anticipated comments made in the debate. This allows me to confine myself in a few minutes to three quick outline considerations. Senator Marino said that you learn from mistakes and that's true, but you also learn from the right things, in the sense that experience accumulates and the case of banking crises is a testimony because they were many, all different and all engaged the Governments that faced them with a common point of reference, the non application of bail-in. In no Italian banking crisis, governments applied the bail-in and addressed in any case the different specificities. Senator Picchetto Fratin first recalled the complexity of the events of banking crises. In this specific case we find ourselves taking advantage of previous experiences and, therefore, we are addressing the issue of Banca Popolare di Bari in two ways, that is, sufficiently in advance of the risk of failure and with the broader strategic vision of integrating a potential crisis in a response that is not only of territory, but of wide scope for the idea of strengthening the southern credit system. This is the result of an approach that we have considered useful and necessary, given the particular specificity of the condition of the Banca Popolare di Bari, but also the absolute urgency of a response to the demand for credit that the southern territory has precisely in function of a potential development that is present, but that there can not be if it is not accompanied by a sufficient and articulated diffusion of the credit. By dealing with the situation sufficiently in advance and, that is, before we are at the end of a crisis or failure, we have assessed that the resources put in place by the State - I say this because in a couple of interventions it has been said that the resources are not sufficient - combined with those that will be made by the private banking system, they carry out that intervention useful to prevent the collapse of the situation and to prepare the conditions for a wider development. Within this perspective, the question of savers must also be addressed, in the sense that it is absolutely priority for the Government to respond to the demand of savers. We must know that in this case, precisely because the bank has not failed and we intend not to make it fail, the attitude towards savers cannot be to consider them already as savers of a failed bank. In any case, as you know, the Savings Compensation Fund (FIR) is existing and, moreover, in these hours, we are inserting an amendment from the Government in the thousand-year measure to allow savers who will have the right to reimbursement to have an advance in order not to wait until the outcome of the whole procedure. It is clear that from this point of view, the measure we are debating today highlights these two characteristics: to deal with a situation in time because it is not degraded, but above all to set up with a view to a strategy. This reasoning was also critical, but it is clear - as Senator Messina has also said, and before that by the rapporteur - that this is explicitly the first step. Let us consider this: like all the first steps, it does not solve the problem, but if there is not a first step of reversal of trend we are not able to take the next steps. That is why, in conclusion, we have included in the measure, accepting an amendment that came from majority and opposition, a strong monitoring of the whole itinerary, consisting, on the one hand, of monitoring the specific situation of Banca Popolare di Bari and, on the other hand, at the time of the split, of an obligation of the Ministry of Economy and Finance (in that case) to respond to Parliament of the choices it has made, of the ones it is making but also of the future choices. If this path goes hand in hand with the work of the Committee of Inquiry into the banking system, which Senator Pesco mentioned earlier, we can say that we have the tools not only to keep the situation under control but also to influence the development of the banking system so that it is a positive development. [[Applause from Senator Bottici.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u45	I would like to inform you that the Presidency - and I am in distribution - has received the opinions of the 1st and 5th standing Commission on the draft law under consideration and the amendments, which will be published in an annex to today's report. The Presidency, in accordance with the criteria adopted during the examination in the referent, declares the amendments 1.0.4, 2.0.6 and 2.0.7 as they are unrelated to the object of the decree-law, in accordance with Article 97 (1) of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u46	Mr President, I call for all the amendments to be withdrawn; if not, I am against them. I would like to make a note of the additional amendment 1.0.4 which has been withdrawn in the Commission, turned into an agenda and approved as a recommendation. As far as agendas are concerned, I am in favour of adopting them as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u47	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u48	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.1, tabled by Senator Montani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.2, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.2, tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.3 tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 1.4, on which the 5th Commission has expressed its opposition under Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.4, tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Montani and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.5. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). On the agenda G1.100 there is the willingness of the Government to accept it as a recommendation. I ask the proposers if they will accept. DAMIANI (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr. President. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. As the authors do not insist on the vote, the agenda is accepted as a recommendation. Senator Vitali, are you in favour of accepting the agenda recommendation G1.101?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u49	Mr President, I would ask that the agenda be put to the vote. I am very surprised at the opinion expressed by the rapporteur and the representative of the Government on the agenda, which, in essence, after the chronicle of how the Bank of the Mezzogiorno has been financed through Invitalia (so, even if it is not explicitly said, concerns the reorganization of the Banca Popolare di Bari), in the conclusions invites the Government not only to be diligent in financing the losses caused by the bad management of the directors, but - for once - also to be diligent in compensating and getting compensated by those responsible for this bad management. The inclusion of the agenda as a recommendation is not enough because it would not do justice to the thousands of investors. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group]] I therefore call on both the representative of the Government and the rapporteur to amend the opinion in a favourable way. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u50	Senator Bottici, would you like to speak?
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u51	Mr President, I repeat that the Banca Popolare di Bari is not in liquidation, so we cannot talk about compensation to savers. We hope we never get to that. That is why I proposed to accept the agenda as a recommendation. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u52	If the proposers insist on the vote, is your opinion against it? BOTTICS, rapporteur. I'm going back to the government's opinion. PRESIDENT. - The debate is closed. Undersecretary Baretta, I invite you to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the point is that we cannot assume that the Popular Bank of Bari has failed or is about to fail, for obvious reasons not only between us but also in its relationship with the European Union. In fact, we're working on another hypothesis. VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Words could be introduced: "if it occurs". Mr Baretta, State Secretary for Economic Affairs and Finance. Let's find a solution by finding a suitable formula.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u54	The order of business is set aside. Let us move on to Amendment 1.0.1, on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 1.0.1, tabled by Senator De Bertoldi. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 1.0.2, tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators, identical to amendment 1.0.3, tabled by Senator Montani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 1.0.4 is not possible. I call on Senator Montani and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on amendment 1.0.5, tabled by Senator Montani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). We shall proceed with the examination of the amendments to Article 2 of the Decree-Law, which are intended to be presented and on which I invite the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to speak.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u55	Mr President, I would ask you to withdraw all the amendments to Article 2, otherwise the opinion will be against it. With regard to amendment 2.0.3, concerning the assessment of credit losses, I would remind the presenter, Senator Perosino, that in the Commission it was withdrawn and transformed into an agenda. We would be willing to accept it as a recommendation.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u56	Senator Perosino, do you accept the rapporteur's proposal? PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Yes, Mr President, I withdraw Amendment 2.0.3.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u57	Mr President, I give my assent.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u58	I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.1, tabled by Senators Perosino and Gasparri. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to Amendment 2.0.2 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to refer to the vote by a simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.2 tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendment 2.0.3 has been withdrawn. I call on Senator Montani and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.4. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I call on Senator Montani and other senators to vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.5, tabled by Senator Montani and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Amendments 2.0.6 and 2.0.7 are unacceptable. I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.8, tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us move on to amendment 2.0.9 on which the 5th Commission has expressed an opinion contrary to Article 81 of the Constitution. Having been requested, I would like to call for a roll-call vote by a simultaneous vote on Amendment 2.0.9 tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.10, tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). I refer to the vote by simultaneous ballot of amendment 2.0.11, tabled by Senator Perosino and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate doesn't approve. (See Annex B). Let us resume the discussion of agenda G1101, which was previously shelved.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u59	I'm asking to talk.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u60	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u61	VITALI (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, we have reworded the agenda. In the commitment to the Government, the words between the word "making" and the word "specting" shall be deleted. In addition, after the word "responsible" is used, the following words shall be replaced by the following: Finally, I would ask that the agenda, which has been so reworded, be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u62	Thank you, Senator, and I invite you to forward the reworded text to the Offices. I call on the rapporteur and the representative of the Government to comment on the agenda which has just been reworded.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u63	Mr President, I welcome the adoption by the Government of the agenda G1.101 (text 2).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u64	Mr President, I agree with the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u65	I refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the agenda G1.101 (text 2), tabled by Senator Vitali and other senators. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B). [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u66	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u67	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u68	STEGER (Aut (SVP-PATT, UV)). Mr President, the affair of the Banca Popolare di Bari is compounded by all the other situations of bad management of banking institutions. It will be the judiciary that ascertains the responsibilities, but the picture that is emerging is disturbing: a bank administered according to master logic, with credit on the basis of clientele criteria and not of enterprise; a management to say the least scam in the share game, with officials who find themselves selling, even to relatives and friends, packages that were empty boxes. And then F24 rigged on the erial contributions to the city football team, the acquisition of the INPS credit of an important health facility that turned out to be inexpensive, the accounts of the rigged subsidiaries, the acquisition of the Tercas Bank, which also casts serious shadows on the efficiency of the control institutions. This is a very heavy picture for a bank that has in its belly a fundamental share of the savings of the Apulians, which has squandered the esteem it enjoyed and the tradition that made it one of the symbols of the southern enterprise. The failure of the People would have exploded an economic and social bomb in a region already hit hard and marked by the affair of the former Ilva. For this reason, the government has done well to secure the deposit of the accountants and to guarantee the operation of the Institute a few hours after the commissioning of Bankitalia, because when a bank fails does not fail its management, the savings of the families go up in smoke, the oxygen is lacking for the entrepreneurial system, a mechanism is triggered that risks to infect the whole system and for Italy this would mean sure recession. The government has done well, also because it has not limited itself to a rescue action, but with this measure it draws the path for the establishment of a credit institution for the South that will have its center of gravity precisely in the People of Bari. My strong hope is that this new bank really serves to equip the southern companies with a subject for the provision of the credit that meets market criteria and that it homogenizes the cost of the credit between the Italian regions. What certainly does not serve the South as well as the whole of Italy is a subject that follows the Cassa del Mezzogiorno, that puts in place new forms of welfare, because these are close relatives of that family that led to the crash of the People. At the same time, once the Commissioners have completed their industrial plan, we will have to consider whether there will be repercussions on the employment front, just as we will have to understand what will happen to shareholders and bondholders. On the shareholders it is right to recognize some forms of refreshment for those cases in which fraudulent behaviour by the Institute will be established. The last thought concerns the whole banking system. This is not a question of polemics or of lending this issue to political exploitations. We must understand what has not worked and what is still not working in the control institutions and it is also a question of preventing the repetition of similar situations, because each time the costs are poured on the community and are never small figures, as this measure shows. This is why it is important to stabilise our banking system and, in doing so, it is important to protect the specificity of the cooperative system as a service to the territory. Fortunately in Italy, the positive realities, those that have accompanied the growth of cities and provinces, are the majority, an extraordinary value for social and entrepreneurial fabrics, for the access to credit of families, freelance professionals, small entrepreneurs. Italy must therefore pursue its own path in harmony, that is, with the originality and specificity of its productive fabric, the vocation to the saving of families, the type of investments and investors and it is with this hope that I announce the Group's favorable vote for the Autonomous Measures. [[Applause from the Aut Groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and M5S.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u69	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u70	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u71	MARINO (IV-PSI). Mr President, having spoken for a long time in general debate on the substance of the measure, in order not to repeat myself and not to be afraid of colleagues, in an explanation of vote I shall confine myself to a more political and less technical consideration. In general discussion I argued that this intervention was as necessary as those of the last parliamentary term and the previous one of this parliamentary term. It is necessary, always with systemic reflections and always different from each other, as the undersecretary Baretta rightly recalled, apart from that Carige of the Government Count one, who had been copied of a healthy plant. Why do I say that? The legislator has on several occasions launched emergency measures for the protection of the national banking system, also to deal with crisis situations related to specific institutions, with a red thread of continuity. This red thread is unraveled by Decree-Law No 183 of 2015, then merged into the law of stability 2016, which served to facilitate the resolution of Cariferrara, Banca Marche, Banca Popolare dell'Etruria and Carichieti, to Decree-Law No 237 of 2016, which granted the State guarantee on the liabilities of banks and on loans granted discreetly by Bankitalia, and which lays down the conditions for the precautionary recapitalisation and introduces the so-called burden sharing measures. By implementing these measures, capital strengthening measures were taken towards MPS. The red thread then develops with Decree-Law No. 99 of 2017, which serves to facilitate the compulsory administrative liquidation of Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, to arrive at Decree-Law No. 1 of 2019, which provides for measures of public support to Banca Carige (the measures are photocopying), until the decree-law currently under consideration, which, through the financing of Invitalia, operates the rescue of Banca Popolare di Bari, starting a path of growth and credibility of the credit system in the Mezzogiorno. I have spoken of resolution, state guarantee, precautionary recapitalisation and compulsory administrative winding-up. I have never spoken of bail-in. Today, fortunately, there is a consensus and a general sharing different from the climate that existed in the last legislature, when there was clamor and amazement when we had to face rescue measures banks, which were actually save savers. Think of what would have happened if the government and Parliament had not intervened in these years, as someone would have wished, and had let go of the banking crises on their own. Think of what would happen not only to accountants, bondholders and shareholders, who are three different types of savers, but also to the entire Italian credit system. Since I want to think in positive terms, I do not think about what happened in the last parliamentary term (even if I do not forget), and I appreciate the general sense of responsibility in this House. But I do not forget the lies told to savers for the search of easy consent [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] , the narration that was given to the banks, speculation on real suffering. There is an image of Senator Salvini, along with his colleagues, with a sign with the words "scarved savers and bankers pardoned": today I appreciated the words of Senator Grassi, when he declared that the resources even seemed inadequate to him. Well, today, approving this measure, we reaffirm the existence of the red thread of continuity that testifies to the goodness of a single action that, with different measures and facets, has done the good of the country. Look, just the fact that this has become a common heritage is enough for me. In the light of this consideration, I too end up with an aphorism, as my colleague Grassi did, even if less cynical. He's the aphorism of a tennis player, Arthur Ashe: "Start where you are. Use what you have. Do what you can. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u72	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u73	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u74	DE BERTOLDI (FdI). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in expressing Brothers of Italy's abstention vote on this measure, I want to mean first of all that the failure to vote against is due to the fact that, as always, our party puts before all the national interest, the interest for our fellow citizens, for those resident in Puglia, who have much of their savings and their investments in this umpteenth institution that - alas - was moving towards default. That is why we shall abstain. Certainly, however, there are many problems. When we talk about urgent measures to support the credit system of the Mezzogiorno and the creation of an investment bank, we are actually talking about the umpteenth buffer measure against the many banking crises that have occurred in recent years, in 2015, 2017 and 2019, until the decree-law in question, dated 2020. In the face of all these crises we have not been able, politics has not been able and, of course, successive governments have not been able to implement a series of reforms that finally gave a new structure, on the one hand, to the banking world and, on the other, to the supervisory institutions, because both are involved in the crises that we are only facing, I repeat, with buffer measures. Then I want to remember that we are talking about public money here. We are talking about 900 million euros that are destined, through a cascade system, to Invitalia, to Central MedioCredit and, then, largely to Banca Popolare di Bari. A public money cascade system, almost a billion euros, which I would like to remind you, to quote the numbers, is six times the measure of non-approval and repositioning in the fiscal law of the dry coupon on commercial leases. To turn all this into objective data, let us remember that the money that we are going to put into this measure today is six times more than what would have been needed to guarantee commercial leases the system of dry coupon. [[Applause from the FdI and FIBP-UDC Groups]] It is therefore a question of precious money, which we go, once more, to commit ourselves to the recovery of waste, of acts that are probably criminal, which have characterized the management of certain banking institutions. We all have to remember this, because I repeat: in recent years, there have been many buffer interventions, but unfortunately the vigilance has been late and no one has ever responded in court really or ever been punished for what happened. Referring to the speeches I have also heard in general debate, I appreciated and largely shared what President Pesco said. Allow me, however, to comment on the critical issues facing the system and also the Europe system: I would ask whether the Movimento 5 Stars is perhaps preparing to emerge from the European majority and the current majority of this Parliament. I say this because the same problems you have raised, which you, Mr Pesco, have addressed to the Europe system, I too share with the opposition, then perhaps I see your exit and I would like to understand it better, both at European and national level. It is a banking crisis that, like many other situations, has also been linked to these famous non-performing loans (NPLs), to these suffering loans that, on the one hand, have drowned the banks, have taken away the assets of the banks and, on the other hand, have guaranteed great gains to speculators. Because this happened. However, we know how we have been waiting for months for legislative measures on these issues to be completed as soon as possible. We hope that the proposal of Brothers of Italy, at the first signature of Senator Urso, on the NPLs can therefore begin to contribute to the reform of this sector. Of course, we need more reform, a real reform, also in the field of supervision, because when we have Bankitalia, which started to report critical issues in 2010, and then arrive, instead, in 2014, when obviously the situation had deteriorated and not improved, to suggest the acquisition of Bank Tercas to a bank that already had problems, it means that here there is a short circuit, it means that in the supervision of Banca Popolare di Bari something did not work. And in this case, too, no one answered. Then we arrived in 2017, when Bankitalia emphasizes that, in fact, we need to change the presidency. The answer, which was also endorsed, what was it? That the president succeeded the president's nephew: here, really, family gestures of interests, gestures that played with the interests of savers, of those citizens to whom we want to give instead protection and guarantee. We therefore believe, also in order to give answers, that it is really time to say halt, to put an end to these buffer measures, to a control system that only comes to the end and is never preventative, to avoid these situations. We therefore need reform of the reforms, as I want to define it, and here I am referring to the intervention of my esteemed and appreciated colleague, Mr Marino, who seems to me to be in general discussion, saying that he wants to link the size of the bank to the reform of the popular banks. I say that the problem is another one: that a small bank, in this case, has had problems, does not justify that we must only move towards a system of large banks; this context openly, because I believe that instead we must restructure supervision and therefore not allow small and large banks to do interests that are not consistent with institutional aims. It is also necessary to reform the system, bringing back to Italy also (and not only) the world of local banks and small credit institutions. Our economic system, our small businesses, our valleys, our outskirts in fact need those banks to intuitu personae, who looked to the entrepreneur, the craftsman, the trader not only for objective budget data, but also and especially for what he was, his family and his past experience. I would also remind my colleagues that those types of banks do not represent a retrograde thought of Brothers of Italy, but they are still the backbone of the German banking system and of much of the American banking system, yet in the last parliamentary term we deleted them from the Italian landscape. Therefore we really need to reform the reforms and therefore, on the one hand, reform the supervision, Bank of Italy, and ensure that the control is effective and preventive; on the other hand, we need to restore a system that, alongside the so-called significant banks, also includes those of the territory that, as well motivates Rainer Masera in its text, are vital for the economy of our country. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to make two small points: we diversify the system, distinguish commercial banks and investment banks, we reform a system that has been blocked for years. In this context, I would like to reiterate that our abstention vote is a pro-active vote, which is above all a stimulus for the reform of banks and supervisors. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and FdI groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u75	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u76	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u77	Mr Errani (Misto-Leu). Mr President, I would like to make a positive point by announcing our vote in favour of this measure, in addition to the remarks and criticisms, such as that on the need for more overall action on the subject of the reform of the banking system. Moreover, I personally believe that the choice of local banks is decisive: in Germany, the banks of the Länder, which are not subject to the supervision of the ECB, represent a fundamental intervention for the economy of the territory. On all these issues we can and must work towards further progress. However, it is quite clear that we could not afford the luxury of abandoning the Popular Bank of Bari, which is a central element for the territory of the Mezzogiorno, not only for Bari but for the whole of the Mezzogiorno: it is the most important credit institution. It is clear that it will primarily be up to the judiciary to address and give a clear answer to Italian citizens about the responsibilities of an affair which, as it proceeds, is demonstrating disturbing aspects and, let's say, endemic also to a certain way of understanding the credit system in this country, must be given serious answers, up to the possibility of putting in condition those responsible to respond not only criminally but also civilly for the damages produced. That said, one could not fail to intervene. In this respect, I would like to stress one point: there is talk of buffer intervention. Of course, the measure before us does not solve all the problems, but let me say that it is an intelligent intervention, because it reunites the issue of the protection of savers and businesses of the People's Bank of Bari with a strategic problem of the Mezzogiorno, an issue on which we have been discussing for several years: as has already been mentioned by a previous colleague, the issue of the Bank of the Mezzogiorno was raised, indeed, by Minister Tremonti several years ago. So there's a point that can keep us together. Now, looking back, many mistakes have been made and there are also political responsibilities for how the issue has not been properly addressed, but that a credit instrument is needed to structure, infrastructure and support the industrial development of the Mezzogiorno is a banality, I think it is obvious. Already in the measure under consideration there are some important things such as checks and controls, the need every four months to account for what is being done and - a fundamental issue - the quality of administrators, including extraordinary administrators. It is a very complicated subject in this country, we must tell the truth, because we all fill our mouths with professionalism and third-partyness but perhaps we will need to think of some innovative tool to have a number of personalities before they can have useful and verified characteristics by Parliament and the committees of Parliament, and not only by the Government, then able to perform, when deemed necessary, institutional functions of Government. To introduce this concept in this country may seem strange, but in my opinion it is the only way forward, since we are not Anglo-Saxons, and we have understood each other. Personally, however, I am interested in the other subject relating to the Bank of the Mezzogiorno. I'm telling the government, too. This solution is intelligent and innovative, it is not a buffer solution. It requires, however, an idea and an industrial policy strategy for the whole country but particularly for the Mezzogiorno. In fact, as Senator Grassi recalled, there are many empty sheds (even in the North there are, but that's another thing, it's the so-called Tremonti-a, but let's forget it, I don't want to waste time). The problem then is what we ask, what strategy we have, what we support, in what areas, with what characteristics and guarantees. We are a system made up of small companies, 95% of Italian companies are under ten employees and do not have capitalization. How do we think of facing the technological and innovation challenge that we face, if not with an industrial policy that chooses in which supply chains we want to start to invest and that knows how to reward them from the point of view of the credit, the tax and the ability to relate to the logistic system? This project must be the matrix with which the Bank of the Mezzogiorno operates. No longer, therefore, the credits and support for friends of the "cousins" but a strategy: if we do so, rightly starting from the Mezzogiorno, we render a great service to the country and we can also give a signal of true recovery of its economy, of which we have great need. So the next debate I expect will be about the great opportunity, the new programming of the Structural Funds, the Bank of the Mezzogiorno. Let's have a strategic discussion about where our country goes, where we want our economy to go. Otherwise, we always talk about the news and politics with the chronicle goes nowhere. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S and PD, and Senator Steger.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u78	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u79	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u80	D'ALFONSO (PD). Mr President, it seems to me that the curvature of the debate has risen a lot. After an attitude of merit, voting point by point, which has also found us willing to converge and find a point of synthesis, it seems to me intelligent that at the time of the final explanation of vote by the Groups, we take the specific subject and place it at the center of a broader reflection because we are writing a significant page that has as its theme the Mezzogiorno. We have undoubtedly had an emerging problem factor, which we have dealt with with with with a complete attitude, capable of finding an organic response, from a framework. What is the situation at the moment with regard to the demand for credit in the Mezzogiorno? We have substantially less 35 billion euros of placements, instead of an increase of placements and credit to demand throughout Italy and regarding the North of more than 25 billion. The specific that we are trying to deal with is the following: is it conceivable that the South of the country can live only from paternalistic production that occasionally puts on the table money? Money that by public hand tries to target positive this or that initiative taken intermittently? It does not make such a vision if there are not all factors of recovery, growth and development. The first factor is related to the need for well-equipped territorial sites that can be easily taken; equipped sites, real spaces that have the full of the conditions to deserve the insight. There is also a need for a non-hateful public administration. We have a public administration, which, at times, hates economic insight, because it takes years to say yes. I have done, also on this, a battle happens from some and from others not fully understood. We have power keepers, within the administrative process, who do not respond. It is not that they answer no, they are fascinated by the "ni," which is the enemy of those who have a business plan. The other key element is taxation, which is being carried out. When Senator Mauro Maria Marino gives us, rightly, his appreciated lessons on the institute of the question, we understand that it is a tool that really determines compliance, that is the correspondence between those who have the tax obligation and the tax order. The questioner approaches, makes it next, makes sure that there is correspondence. This kind of tax is necessary, even in the details of that special business life. Ad hoc training and technological packages are also needed, plants for the treatment of the cycle of waste and sludge, and then we need an ability to make credit, which is not conceived on the moon. In the Mezzogiorno of Italy - I am an expression of the Centronord del Mezzogiorno - there has been a very claudical debate. But does a bank become territorial if the birthplace of the administrators is of that place or if the name of the bank refers to that phrase? Or does the territorialization of a bank evoke the project, the policy and the programming of the completed packages? [[Applause from the PD Group and the Senators Bressa and Errani]] This is the point, of which we write in the norm.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u81	Excuse me for interrupting, Senator D'Alfonso. Having arrived at 1 p.m., I declare closed the vote for the election of a Senator Secretary. I invite the Secretary Senators to proceed with the scrub of the ballots. (Secretary Senators proceed to count votes). Senators took part in the vote: Abate, Accoto, Agostinelli, Airola, Alderisi, Alfieri, Anastasi, Angrisani, Arrigoni, Astorre Bagnai, Balboni, Barbaro, Battistoni, Bergesio, Berutti, Binetti, Bini, Biti, Boldrini, Bongiorno, Bonifazi, Campari, Candiani, Candura, Cangini, Cantù, Casini, Casolati, Castaldi, Castellone, Castiello, Causin, Centinario, Cioffi, Cirinnà, Collina, Coltorti, Beginini, Conzatti, Corado, Corti, Craxi, Croatti, Cucca D'Alfonso, Cino, D'Angelo, D'Angelo, D'Agostinelli, Corti
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u82	Mr President, you are the dean of punctual knowledge of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate, even when you interrupt you must not apologize, because you always bring wisdom. [[Applause from the PD, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] Even when he interrupts, he doesn't interrupt. As I said, there is an interesting element in the norm, to be exalted, even when one wants to be disconcerting. In the meantime, in clear terms, the constraints of the requirements for administrators are reiterated, which is not a small thing, in a fairly scrambled Italy, about the choice of "who." Secondly, there is an obligation to report to the Commission every four months and to the House every year to see and verify the employment and financial effects of this recovery bet. However, the industrial project is important. I don't know if it goes too far, but my colleagues will remember that once there was the Institute for Industrial Promotion, whose initials were IPI. It was an acronym entrusted to a great surname of Italy, which, for the sake of Fatherland, I do not quote, since, having already many causes (that I am winning), I do not want to activate another. It is an important surname, which naturally placed a throne and a wealthy one - to the truth it was a wealthy one - but which produced nothing. We must avoid these self-referentialities and the risk of "wrong wood" is always present. If there is control, there is debate and there is an industrial project, I am convinced that the Bank of the Mezzogiorno is necessary and can do well, but we must realize it, we have to go into the matter: other than the question referred for a preliminary ruling! It is for this reason that, for once, the whole of Parliament and the Government, facing with one eye the emergency and with the other eye the vision of the whole, is doing its duty. In Bavaria this type of discussion is done, becomes norm and procedure. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to go beyond the vote in favour, knowing that beyond this appointment, six months from now, there will be a debate on what has happened. Then at the end of the year, when we discuss the major financial, administrative and regulatory instruments, we will have to draw the first line, to see how it is going. I have faith in Invitalia, I have faith in Domenico Arcuri and I also have confidence in the technostructure of the MEF, but we must ensure that laziness does not intervene in the verification of what happens in those territories. In my region there are 2,000 patents and innovations a year; they are those production ports that concern what is not there, that there can be and can do good to the economy, and that settle in via Molise, a cross of Via Veneto. Those patents need financial cover: 25% of them are patented, 75% come from the market, and it's money that's called debt on this side, while that side is called credit. We didn't have this in the Mezzogiorno. He was good at Tremonti when with secularism he posed the issue and asked the Post Office for help. Now it is time to make it a large instrument, with organizational capacity characterized by speed and a great correspondence to the many coves of the Mezzogiorno. Let's see what happens in the province of Mezzogiorno and how much innovation there is in the agro-food sector, in the pharmaceutical sector and also in the artificial intelligence sector. I am not talking about Eagle, but we should say, with our Abruzzo colleagues, what is happening there on the innovation front. The fact of finding us then, at this moment of take-off of the economy without one of the main infrastructures could not but deserve this answer, which must be verified, supervised and evaluated. I am not just saying this in order to ensure that this solution is the answer to the many who work at the banks of the People's Bank of the Mezzogiorno: the solution is instrumental and functional to the recovery of an economy in which, from Saraceno onwards, it has always been decreed that credit is one of the main structures. That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of the bill when we examine it. [[Applause from the PD, Mixed and IV-P.S.I. Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u83	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u84	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u85	BAGNAI (L-SP-PSd'Az). Mr President, someone called the question raised by Senator Faggi a "filling initiative." I would like to say on this point, in announcing our Group's vote in favour, that we are rather afraid that this measure will be a full initiative. We will support this, because of course we do not want to blame ourselves for the consequences of the lack of vision of others, but we are not exactly convinced that it will solve the problems it wants to face and that it does not mention them either. I would like to start with a few comments that have been developed during the general debate to explain what I mean. Here we have at least three problems: a system problem, a monitoring problem and a resource problem. Let's start with the system. As my fellow Members know, blood is not a liquid, but an organ: it is made up of many different cells. The same applies to the credit system, which is the blood of the economy: it is not a homogeneous whole, but it is composed of many different institutions, at least in the bodies that work. 13,09 p.m. (Following BAGNAI). Senator Pichetto Fratin did well to make a historical excursus on the Italian credit system, while I am a little skeptical about the enthusiasm of other colleagues towards innovative initiatives. I have to say that I am going back to ancient times and it will be a step forward - to quote Giuseppe Verdi - and this is because if we look at the situation of our most aggressive competitors (think of Germany) we see that in that case the credit system is based on a principle, on which perhaps we should start to open a debate (but we do not succeed, I do not know why), which refers to the role of the public sector in the credit system and therefore of public banks. Let us think of Germany, which has a system based on three pillars: public banks ( Tuesdays and Sundays), private banks and cooperative credit banks. It is a table with three legs; we of these three legs have two and it is quite evident that there is the danger that the table will go down. But nobody really cares about this because we are talking about intervening at market conditions. In some parts of this House we have moved from a denigration of Keynes and the role of the public sector, made from the left paradoxically, to an exaltation of Hayek and the role of the market that brings us nowhere. Regional development banks must also be added to the German credit system. There are 13 of them and they are exempted from European regulations and some of them here have rightly complained about the draconian character. I am referring to capital requirements regulation (CRR) and capital requirements directive (CRD). We have not been able to substantially exempt any bank. The ones that were outside the perimeter - for example, the cooperative credit banks - we brought them back in and then they come to tell us that we compete with equal weapons and that there is level playing field? No, in my opinion, there's a low-level debate, something a little different. Perhaps we should ask ourselves whether the time has not come to claim the role of the State. To do this, we must claim its dignity. Can we do this in the company of those who have done the denigration of the institutions and, in particular, the elective bodies - I don't know if you remember the caste, the Magna Magna and the tuna can - the foundation of their fleeting political career? I don't think so. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Can we do this with those who see, for what is happening and the episodes of bad management that have been there, in justiceism the only healing horizon for the paths of our economy? I don't think so. Of course, there has been bad management and perhaps it has also been continued; we will see it because investigations are being carried out. But if that's the theme, then do we want to talk about something else? Why is this majority covering up a debate on the role and reform of the governance of the Supervisory Authority? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] If that is the issue, we must intervene, partly because it is essential to avoid an atrocious doubt, after the interventions of the judiciary, that there have been and that have been one of the reasons for Mr Faggi's intervention. The doubt is that in this country there are bodies independent of politics and endowed with a sanctioning power that they use to conduct a policy, for example, credit. The independence of certain institutions is preached in relation to certain policies such as monetary policy. Ladies and gentlemen, how high is the interest rate, how many banks and what should be in a territory we should decide, if we still want to. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Let's forget this and focus on the potential innominate rescue (what in the vocabulary of some PD ideologies would be called "the cow in the corridor" "we could call it "the elephant in the trullo"). Are we really thinking of solving such a problem with these resources? I want to be very specific on the point and clarify. We did this as a preventive action when Commissioner Vestager came to visit us politely, and then we want to complain about the European Union's intervention, which in some cases saves banks and others with public money, forcing the national legislators to make strange escamotage? What happened in the Norddeutsche Landesbank, the last of Germany's public banks that was rescued with additional public money (EUR 3 billion)? There was a significant restriction of the perimeter of the activity, which consisted in giving up an entire branch of activity (ship credit, which had gone into the air due to the collapse of international trade) and also a substantial recovery of profits in the industrial plan: they basically planned to fire half of the people. So there will then be a further social cost because the state will have to support these people in their path to find a new job. But do we really think that an intervention on market conditions, so with a ROE technically around 8%, reducing the perimeter of the activity, reducing the operation of the Institute, is possible in a territory like what we are considering, devastated by earthquakes and characterized by a fragility, unfortunately, endemic? I don't think that's gonna be possible. Let us remember that if an animal moves like a duck, swims and stares like a duck, it is a duck; and if so many people move like the market, they act and fail like the market, they are the market. What, then, does the State need if we continue with this false rhetoric of intervention on market conditions that is only a tool to postpone to future generations the real cost of rescue? [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] Also because there has been talk here, for example, of the various interventions of the interbank Deposit Protection Fund (FITD) because it is a private body and the State is not involved; but you know that - do you not? - that we are all paying these costs through the cost increases of our current accounts? Just to give an example. The rhetoric of not involving the taxpayer so much then involves the consumer, the citizen, that is the taxpayer. Let us, then, take our responsibilities and intervene. These were the two considerations that I felt I was making about our perplexities, and on these considerations we want to challenge the current majority to engage in a debate on the real points. I repeat: the structure of our credit system and the role that the public sector must play within it - we must go to Europe to fight this battle without starting to be prejudiced, as we have seen from previous majorities over many years - and the debate on the structure of the supervisory authority in Italy, which, I regret to say, in this instance has shown that it is not particularly efficient. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u86	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u87	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u88	PEROSINO (FIBP-UDC). Mr President, Mr Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, we may have lost a little concentration at this time, but we must complete our task. As already mentioned, Forza Italia will vote in favour because it has done so to the House and for a high sense of responsibility in cases like these, as it has already happened in 2016 and, to follow, in other cases of bank rescues carried out with different rules, but in front of which some parties - or rather a party of the current majority - made barricades with declarations of fire, especially from some members (those who today are around the world looking for inspirations). Governance is difficult, it is a serious matter; we agreed then and we agree today. It is a serious matter, so much so that I think that among the 3,200 employees, faced with a restructuring - and I hope that is not the case - there may be some who are made redundant; that the 350 branches will have some mandatory closure, because too many banks (not just the one we are talking about) have opened too many branches. We know that it is true that it is a risk to the shareholder and that the last shares were treated at EUR 2.38 when they started at a value of 9.53. An industrial plan is therefore needed, which is planned by 15 April, after the due diligence of the Kyrgyz Government on 15 March. I hope it's a real industrial plan that says what it's like to be a banker. I know from personal experience the propensity to save the people of the South; I know well of entrepreneurs from the South - and says a man from the North - who have always paid too high bank rates because the banks took advantage of the difficulty, of the possible return, of the greater risk and made even the entrepreneurs pay valid higher rates. The industrial plan will have to say what it means to make bank: a percentage of NPL, now at 22.9% in Banca Popolare di Bari when it has reached even 27 percent, is abnormal in the system because a fair percentage, in my opinion, cannot go more than 3 or 4 percent, even if today you tend to width up to 9-10 percent. Because the profit and loss account cannot support it, with negative rates. Or both savers and credit seekers will be vexed. There is a wish that, like Forza Italia, we had translated into an amendment which, however, was dismissed. Our proposal was that the Bank of the Mezzogiorno (previous pass, Banca Popolare di Bari) would collaborate with the trusts and build a credit network through the trusts. In fact, where they were implemented, the confidences gave, especially for the division of risk and the system of guarantees, great results. I wonder who the credit was made to get to the point where this and other banks arrived. As some have already mentioned, the most just bill is the one that speaks of the responsibility of the directors and managers who must be expropriated of their property. I mean it brutally, but I do. Then there is the subject of vigilance, which Mr Bagnai mentioned earlier. The Bank of Italy and Consob are losing their responsibilities. The Bank of Italy had reported since 2010, but had to do more because it is its task; the Banca Popolare di Bari is its competence because it is a less signifiant in the European classification. There was the parenthesis of Banca Tercas, which was authorized by Banca d'Italia. The Bank of Italy says that the fault of the current situation is the failure to transform into a public limited company (now a cooperative company with a capitarian vote), which prevented the raising of risk capital. I think it is a non-reality assessment, because no one would have risked it in that situation. Today it costs much less to recapitalise than to repay deposits. Out of a total of 8-9 billion euros, those repayable are 4.5 billion euros (those below 100,000 euros). The interbank Deposit Protection Fund has a possibility of EUR 1.7 billion and should be indebted. Besides, it wouldn't be fair to spend it all here. So the state puts them in? Yes, the state puts them together with all the others we have been forced (or you have been forced, by your decision, representatives of the government) to decide in this House. I am referring to the EUR 400 million for Alitalia, the future million for Ilva, and those for motorway concessions and all other companies in crisis, so there is no industrial policy (maybe there is the idea of nationalising everything, but I don't know how). There is the savings fund (FIR), which is supplementary and is a means of compensating savers for figures below EUR 100,000. The FIR has a budget of EUR 1.5 billion, but it cannot be spent here; then the EUR 900 million is probably the least evil. According to my "nasometry" ideas, too many companies are involved: Invitalia, Mediocredito Centrale-Banca del Mezzogiorno, a possible new company that will be formed to hold the participations that will be in charge of the Ministry of Economy and Finance. There are too many companies, which also have costs, however, this is probably to avoid the negative opinion of the European Central Bank as State aid. I make two more final remarks. It has been established that the sugar tax will produce a collection of 200-230 million euros. In the face of this tax, as always, there have been protests, in my opinion, just because it is a moralistic tax. But it's not the solution to that problem. Well, EUR 200-230 million will be the revenue, and we are now forced to authorise State expenditure of EUR 900 million together with all those I have already mentioned. Then there is the issue of the tax credit of 700 million euros: I did not understand well, but probably that clause clicks when Banca Popolare di Bari will return in profit. Now we are faced with a certified loss, for 2018, of 430 million euros; for 2019, if Banca d'Italia has decided the commissioning, it will certainly be similar, if not higher. As the Forza Italia Group, we had tabled amendments in the spirit of banking and they were rejected. Perhaps more could be discussed, before and better, but I understand that the provision should have returned to the House, with a length of time compared to the expiry of the decree-law. Undersecretary Baretta has accepted a proposal which calls for a clear and certain definition of the credit losses. According to our Group it is right, because today there are successive passages of stranded credits, which are ultimately defined as NPL, for amounts, depending on the classification established, very high or medium or low. My belief is that the NPLs amount to billions of euros and started from the 500 billion euros denounced by some economic newspaper and gradually amortized, but in the system they are crazy figures. That's what happened. We hope that we will not again be called on to decide on this issue, on these issues, on these appropriations and that the system of banks, the Bank of Italy and controls and the whole economic system can stand. However, I invite the Government to meditate on what it means to govern and allocate money to any eventuality, in a state budget that has such a public debt, a matter on which I often return because my horse of battle, as well as on the proposal to set up the Italy-saving fund resulting from the management of the real estate of the State, which could and can give considerable help. So it is not and probably you live more a day. We are starting from this day when we are almost all in agreement to meditate on these issues which are of Parliament's own. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups]] . Congratulations).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u89	I ask you to speak for an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u90	You have the right to do so.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u91	OIL (M5S). Mr President, members of the Government, fellow senators and fellow senators, we are about to turn into law a decree-law that radically changes the approach to the issue of banks in Italy. The Movimento 5 Stars has always pushed to create an instrument that can give a turning point in addressing in a different way the problems related to credit, in particular those institutions that over time have had difficulties and create damage to the entrepreneurial and social fabric of the territories in which they operate. There is no need to retrace the history of the various liquidations and bank resolutions. Just list the last cases to bring back to the mind of those who listen to the enormous problems generated on the territory: Cassa di Risparmio di Ferrara, Banca Marche, Banca Popolare dell'Etruria, Cassa di Risparmio di Chieti. And then Banca Popolare di Vicenza and Veneto Banca, Cassa di Risparmio di Genova in early 2019 and today Banca Popolare di Bari. We still have before our eyes the wounds inflicted on all those savers who, between bank resolutions and liquidations, have seen zero the value of their bonds and shares. These are more than 200,000 people who had trusted the four banks of central Italy and the two popular Venetians. People betrayed not only by the banks in question, but also by the choices made at least questionable by the governments that preceded us. It is only thanks to the Movimento 5 Stars that all these savers today can find refreshment in the savings compensation fund (FIR) [[Applause from the M5S Group]] , which we strongly wanted and financed with 1.5 billion euros, a figure 15 times higher than that put on the plate by those who preceded the Movimento 5 Stars in other governmental experiences. Coming to meet savers and businesses, the approach followed by this decree will avoid the liquidation of the People of Bari, the questioning of six billion euros of credit lines to almost 100,000 entrepreneurs, out of a total of 600,000 customers, who will be able to continue the activity without significant impacts. The 5 Star Movimento has always fought for the creation of a Public Investment Bank, a bank that could support citizens and businesses with an approach oriented to the development of the territory and not to the profit of small or garlands oligarchies, or managers of non-forecast banks that do not put first the development of the bank and the territory. With this decree the Government uses and amends an existing instrument: it is the Middle Central Credit-Bank for the Mezzogiorno, an institution that deals with the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, mainly in the Mezzogiorno, and of finance activities complementary to the public incentives for companies. Until now, however, the size of MCC-Bank operations for the Mezzogiorno has proved to be a little too high for the Italian business fabric, which consists of more than 90% of small and medium-sized enterprises. Here then the Government, with the measure that we are approving, has appropriately and meritoriously seized the opportunity to transform yet another fibrillation produced on the territory, following the sensible management of the Banca Popolare di Bari, into an opportunity to relaunch, throwing the premises for a public bank for investments really destined to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs of the Mezzogiorno. We know that over the years Italy has had a complicated intercourse with the European Union on banks: in relation to the People of Bari itself, moreover, the European Commission qualified as state aid the intervention of the Interbank Fund in the acquisition of Bank Tercas, greatly appertaining the results of that intervention; while in 2019 the European Court of Justice annulled the decision, rejecting the reasons of the Commission itself, but it was already too late. Today there are those who say that this decree-law runs the risk of new state aid, but just the precedent just mentioned should make it clear that the intervention of the Interbank Fund is another thing, given the acclaimed private origin of these funds. It is also good news that Von der Leyen and Vestager, respectively President of the European Commission and European Commissioner for Competition, have stated that they want to rethink the concept of state aid, precisely because of the mistakes made in the past. These must not remain words, confined to the usual perimeter of good intentions. The 5 Star Movement will monitor the work of the new Commission without granting the minimum discount. I am from Bari, I have never had a bank account at the Banca Popolare di Bari but I can testify that the bank, born sixty years ago, was and is an important reference point for the city and the Mezzogiorno, a reference point for savers and for many families and that is why I cannot remain indifferent to what it means for the city and for the South such a situation. Now it is necessary for the members to take the next step, i.e. to transform the Bank into a public limited company, so that, in addition to the protection of accountants and bondholders, for whom the Interbank Fund is involved, there can be the possibility of safeguarding shareholders as well and of facilitating MCC's entry into the People's Republic for its subsequent relaunch. The judiciary is carrying out its own checks, but recent reports on the allegations that a precautionary measure has been taken against some former members of the bank can only cause us to reflect. The People of Bari had a long and troubled path, studded with warning by the Bank of Italy itself, which first issued partially negative judgments, then withdrew them and allowed the People of Bari to acquire the Bank Tercas, except then issue other negative judgments. The role of the Bank of Italy in this affair is not without its criticality. In Bari everyone knew that the Banca Popolare di Bari was actually the "Banca Padronale di Bari": three members of the same family among the top executives involve legitimate doubt about the criteria that have inspired the choices of summit over the years. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] Marco and Gianluca Jacobini, former president and vice president of the bank, made use of the faculty not to answer the questions asked by the magistrates. Their lawyers have stated that the Jacobins have 41,000 good reasons not to answer, referring to the number of pages that the pm have delivered to them, because they still have to read them. In my opinion, however, there are at least 600,000 reasons to assume responsibility, as many as the customers of the People of Bari, and at least another 70,000 good reasons to provide explanations, as many as the members of the Institute. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] All people who do not deserve the conditions in which they are in, and who only through the speed of intervention of this Government will avoid an explosive impact on their activities. This morning the President of the bicameral commission of inquiry on the banks was voted, the colleague of the Movimento 5 Star Carla Ruocco, to whom my and our wishes for good work go. [[Applause from the M5S Group]] From this moment on, there are no more excuses and alibis: the Commission of Inquiry can finally start working and in the coming months it will be able to deepen on various issues, not least that of the People of Bari. With today's vote we choose to safeguard the territory, businesses, families and not just a bank. With today's vote we choose to protect people's savings, savings that are not only banknotes of some economic value, but pieces of history that each saver trusted the bank, in order to enjoy a dignified future. With today's vote we choose to change once and for all the way in which this state will decide to face the problems of banks. That is why I am voting in favour of the Movimento 5 Star Group. [[Applause from the M5S Group. Congratulations.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u92	As you know, the Secretary Senators are completing the barework for the election of a Secretary Senator. I therefore have a few minutes' suspension so that they can reach the House by having the result of the vote. (The sitting was suspended at 13.37 p.m. and resumed at 13.43 p.m.) The sitting was resumed. Colleagues, as I said, this suspension was motivated by the fact that we would deny the Senators the right to vote because, by regulation, they could not abandon the ballots. So there would have been a vulnus in the vote. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] I therefore refer to the roll-call vote by simultaneous ballot of the bill, composed of only Article 1. (The vote was followed). The Senate approves. (See Annex B).
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u93	I communicate the result of the secret ballot vote for the election of a Senator Secretary: [[Senators present 251 Senators voting 251]] Senators got votes: [[Ginetti 138 Dispensi 4 White cards 94 No cards 15]] I proclaim elected Secretary Senator Ginetti, to whom I address my best wishes for good work. [[Applause. Congratulations.]] As established by the Conference of Leaders, work will resume at 3 p.m. with the Premier question time. I therefore suspend the sitting until 3 p.m. (The sitting was suspended at 13.46 p.m. and resumed at 15.09 p.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u94	The next item is questions in immediate response (so-called question time) under Rule 151-a of the Rules of Procedure, to which the President of the Council of Ministers will reply. I call on the speakers to ensure strict respect for time, given the current live television. Senator Unterberger has the right to explain the question 3-01348 on the emergency involving the Brenner motorway corridor, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u95	Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the Brenner corridor is one of the most significant and strategic routes in our country. The volume of goods, which currently passes for the Brenner, represents 30% of all the traffic North-South in the alpine arc and is pairs to approximately 45 million net tons per year. For several years now, however, this infrastructure has been experiencing a serious collapse, with negative consequences also on the environment and the quality of life of the populations involved. The solution can only be to promote joint instruments and actions with the aim of moving a large part of freight transport from road to rail, enhancing the possibilities already provided for in European legislation. Italy, Austria and Germany must work together in close cooperation with the European institutions and with all the territories concerned. To this end, I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what steps the Government intends to take to respond promptly to the serious situation in the Brenner corridor and to promote a shared strategy at European level and with the active involvement of the territories concerned.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u96	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u97	Mr President, kind senators, kind senators, I extend a cordial greeting to you all. I am very pleased to answer your questions, given the inspection and control powers of the Chambers over the activities of government and, of course, respect - a concrete respect - for the role and centrality of Parliament. Before answering this question, allow me to address a question in this House to the two drivers, Giuseppe Cicciù and Mario Di Cuonzo, who were killed this morning in the serious incident in the Lodigiano while they were doing their work. [[Applause. The Assembly stands.]] Therefore, on behalf of the Government and the entire Assembly, in view of the unanimity of the applause, I express my condolences to their families and my wish for prompt recovery to the wounded. Thanks to all rescuers, fire department, law enforcement, civil protection and health care workers. [[Applause]] We know that investigators are doing everything they can to shed light on what happened soon. Safety in transport and our infrastructure in general is a citizens' right that the state must guarantee and therefore also for the government is the highest priority. I come back to the question put by the Group for the Autonomies, which I thank, and I press that the Government, through the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, has been following for a long time the problem relating to the bans on heavy traffic in the territory of the Austrian Tyrol. Italy is strongly committed to promoting alternative modes of transport and to reduce the environmental impact, investing considerable financial resources for the renewal of the fleet, for the support of combined transport and for the construction of the necessary infrastructure, including the Brenner base tunnel. On the Italian side, channels of dialogue are open and cooperation is ensured to the European Commission, both with political interventions and with various meetings at technical level, with the participation of Germany and Austria, in order to verify margins of understanding that allow measures useful to intervene on the environmental impact, as an alternative to the interdictive measures of Austria. In particular, I would remind you that on 2 December 2019 Minister De Micheli met with the European Commissioner for Transport, giving him a formal note to represent the difficult situation faced by Italian economic operators, as a result of the decisions taken by the Austrian Government. On this occasion, it was reiterated that the European Commission should formally decide on the Austrian restrictive measures, as they are contrary to the EU's core principles on the free movement of goods and services, and in view of the distorting effects of competition, with a request to assess any possible and further action if the same authorities still intend to pursue their aims. Pending this statement, Minister De Micheli is shortly planning a new meeting with the European Commissioner for Transport, Adina Vălean, and in any case I myself will promote a meeting with the Austrian Premier to try to address this problem with dialogue and a constructive approach. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Aut groups (SVP-PATT, UV) and Senator Errani]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u98	Senator Unterberger may speak in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u99	I thank President Conte for his reply.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u100	Senator Pharaoh has the right to explain question 3-01352 on citizenship income and government measures to promote employment, for three minutes. [[Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u101	Mr President, I have the contract of Francesca Colavita, the Spallanzani researcher who, together with her colleagues Maria Rosaria Capobianco and Concetta Castilletti, managed to isolate the coronavirus. They were the first in Europe. Francesca is thirty-one years old and receives for a fixed-term contract, which will expire in November 2021, 16,762 euro gross per year, about 1,400 euro gross per month and 926 euro net. Mr President, as you know, to date a citizen who receives citizenship income can receive up to about 1,400 euros net per month. Francesca, researcher of Spallanzani, receives 926 euros net per month and the citizen who stays at home about 1,400 euros. Francesca isolated the coronavirus. Those who receive the income of citizenship do not even have the fixed time as Francesca, since the income receives it until it responds positively to a job proposal. As we know, unfortunately not so many job proposals are heard by unemployed citizens. Even the National Active Labour Policy Agency (ANPAL) tells us that only 3.6% of those receiving citizenship income have found work. President, we must invest - as well as our Government is doing - in research. The appointment of the new Minister, the 1,600 researchers who will be hired with the so-called extension terms and the 200 million that we have committed to investing for research institutions, are fine. But do you not think that, in full respect of whom the measure of citizenship income has thought of it, it should be revised with them and that a review should be made of what we have managed to achieve so far through this instrument? Do you not think that it is wise - as has happened in the past with the income of inclusion (Rei), which I propose to strengthen with more resources and restore with the jobs act and with the new social insurance for the job (Naspi) - to separate the interventions for the assistance and the poverty from the interventions for the job true? [[Applause from Group IV-PSI. Ironic applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u102	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u103	Mr President, on the question raised by the honourable Members, whom I thank, it should be recalled that the income of citizenship, under Decree-Law No 4 of 2019, is a measure aimed at introducing in Italy a universal instrument to combat poverty, support social inclusion and training and reintegration into work. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Errani]] It was, therefore, conceived, by express programmatic line of economic and social policy, as a measure of social justice and, in part, has also enhanced the scope of intervention of income inclusion, introduced, as you know, in our legal system pursuant to Legislative Decree No 147 of 2017. It has a dual nature, therefore, of support for income and an instrument of active labour policy. This dual nature puts the income of citizenship in line - I stress - with the best welfare practices already experienced in many Member States of the European Union, as well as with what the European Pillar of Social Rights, which - I remember - was signed in 2017 by the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council. In this respect, I note that about half of the households benefiting from the citizenship income required by the activation obligations are addressed to the departments of the municipalities responsible for combating poverty in order to define a pact for social inclusion. As the interrogators themselves have said, the measure is aimed at a vulnerable audience, formed for the most part by people who have been unemployed for years or without specialization or adequate training. The overall effectiveness of this policy cannot be assessed solely on the basis of the percentage of beneficiaries who have found employment. [[Applause from the M5S Group and Senator Errani]] It must be examined as a whole, especially with regard to the profile, for example - and I am sure that honourable Members are also very sensitive on this front - of the ability to preserve the essential rights: the dignity of the person and his family unit. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups]] , ensuring that beneficiaries not only receive economic support but also a set of accompanying services or support services for social and work inclusion, promoting the autonomous capacity to contribute to their community, preventing the intergenerational transmission of poverty. I have always said that with this measure of fact we implement Article 3, second paragraph, of the Constitution, where equality is not understood only in a formal, but in a substantial way, as an active citizenship. [[Applause from the M5S and Mixed Groups.]] As is also apparent from the international evidence relating to the introduction of similar measures, the assessment of a really very complex measure such as citizenship income, which, precisely in relation to the component of social and work activation, also requires the strengthening of these specific services, cannot be carried out - it would be really unreasonable - less than a year after its entry into force, as it takes a reasonable time to be able to assess its effectiveness with completeness. Therefore, we fully realize that the measure, not yet a year later, has been implemented in all its potential. In any event, the Government's determined commitment to implement citizenship income in its full potential in order to improve its ability to combat poverty and, above all, to encourage socio-economic reintegration within the framework of the 2020-2023 Agenda remains firm. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u104	I have the floor to answer Senator Pharaoh for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u105	Mr President, of course we do not agree with many of your statements, but we will find a way to compare them because I believe that is what the government and its majority must do. Italy Viva is at the side of the "best youth," the talents of this country, and we hope that the Government itself will have the ambition to invest in all of them and the new generations. Maybe the League in this case won't even clap ironically, as it did just now. [[Comments from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group),]] Since another measure we contest is a 100th share, an intervention that invests on those who already have a pension rather than on the new generations who risk having a hunger pension or not having it. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI]] By the way, 100 was a measure designed - from what we were told - that followed such a pattern that for everyone who had retired, three young people would be hired. The numbers say the exact opposite: ten retire and four are hired. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] Therefore, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as you have rightly said - and I agree with that - we have a duty to review these measures, to examine the papers well, to study the numbers and to see if there is anything to change. In our opinion, there is a need to change and separate interventions on assistance and poverty, which need strong investment in this country, from those in support of work. [[Senator Taverna's comments.]] They are two distinct things and, as long as we continue to mix them, we will wrong those who seek work and those who are poor and need assistance from the State. [[Applause from Group IV-PSI.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u106	Senator La Russa has the right to explain Question 3-01353 on the candidacy of the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance for the next supplementary elections to the House of Deputies for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u107	Mr President-in-Office of the Council, before briefly explaining the question that we of the Brothers of Italy and of which Mr Urso is the first signatory, I greet the previous speaker for this controversy about the income of citizenship, which we would like not only in the moments of the question time, but in the life of the Government. It is difficult in fact to be together in a government and not agree on the main things; however, so much is and we take note of it. On the other hand, Mr President, the question arises from the fact that the Minister for Economic Affairs and Finance Roberto Gualtieri is now officially nominated and appointed by the entire left centre for the supplementary elections in Rome's single-member college 1. On Monday, February 3, the Minister, already officially candidate, participated for an hour and thirty minutes in an important talk show on a national network: the same luck could not have Maurizio Leo, Rossella Rendina, Elisabetta Canitano, Marco Rizzo, Mario Adinolfi and Luca Lo Muzio, candidates in the same college. You know better than I do, because you are a jurist, that our legislation - exactly the decree of the President of the Republic No. 361 of 1967 - provides for a whole series of figures to cease their duties at least one hundred and eighty days before the elections (seven, if these are early elections, from the date on which they are held). The Minister is not specifically listed, but there has never been a case of a Minister attending a supplementary election; if anything, he does so when the Government has only ordinary tasks, not when - in the following days, months or weeks - he has the task, for example, of proceeding to 400 of the most important appointments that exist. Now, if our overall order - which I am not here to recall, for a short time, but which you know much better than me - provides for incompatibility and ineligibility precisely to ensure equal conditions for candidates, I wonder if it seems correct, while these elections run, to continue to have as Minister a candidate who takes advantage, uses or uses - chooses the term he prefers - his privileged role over the other six candidates who do not have this luck, this possibility and - putatively - these same electoral spaces. I think you would do well to ask for the resignation of Mr Gualtieri: that is our request. It should have done so by itself, I repeat, or at least take on an interim role for the period of the electoral competitions that important role in the Dicastery. [[Applause from the FdI Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u108	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u109	Mr President, I would like to remind you that the then President of the Council, Paolo Gentiloni Silveri, was elected to the Rome 1 college of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore electoral competition, according to current legislation, is necessary to replace him, since in the meantime he has been appointed European Commissioner, and in this role he is also ensuring the Italian presence in the European institutions at the highest level. As regards the alleged ineligibility of Minister Gualtieri, you mentioned the legal aspects; we specify them. In our order, the hypotheses of ineligibility are strictly provided for by Article 7 of the decree of the President of the Republic n. 361 of 1957, according to which it is ineligible to parliamentarians exclusively those who hold the public office of regional deputy or regional councillor, president of the Provincial Council, mayor of Municipality (in addition with population over 20.000 inhabitants), head or deputy chief of police, general inspectors of public security, head of Cabinet of Ministers, representative of the Government to the Autonomous Region of Sardinia, commissioner of the State for the Sicilian Region, commissioner of the Government for the Regions with ordinary statute, commissioner of the Government for the Friuli-Venezia Giulia Region, president of the Coordination Commission for the Valle d'Aosta Region, commissioner of the Government for the Provinces of Trento and Bolzano, prefect and those who make the vetoes in the aforementioned offices, vice-prefects and officials of public security. Now it is clear, as we scroll through this list, that it is not considered in the most absolute way, among the hypotheses of ineligibility and incandidability, that of the office of Minister. Moreover, in the past, during the different electoral deadlines, Ministers and Presidents of the Council have always presented themselves to the elections, carrying out their electoral campaigns in the planned time and manner. It should also be pointed out that, on the basis of a consistent case-law, the provisions of law which provide for cases preventing elected posts, precisely because they entail derogations from the constitutionally guaranteed right of passive electorate - as I recall - enshrined in Article 51 of the Constitution, are of strict legality. This means that they are not susceptible to extensive or analog interpretation, in the most absolute way. With regard to the other problem which the interrogators pose - and here again I thank them for the clarification - namely that of the electoral campaign, it is guaranteed - as we know - by Law No 28 of 2000, which entrusts to the independent sector authority, Agcom, and, as far as competence is concerned, to the regional Corecoms, the task of ensuring compliance with the principles of pluralism, objectivity and correctness of information. In the present case, these are supplementary elections in the district of Lazio 1. The monitoring of information and communication by local companies is therefore carried out, on behalf of Agcom, by the Regional Communications Committee Corecom Lazio. With regard to national television and radio programming, as has always been the case in similar cases in the past, Agcom will take care, in its constant and necessary activity of verification carried out also outside the electoral periods, to evaluate the correct balance of the times dedicated to the presence of the Minister of the economy, indispensable for an effective institutional communication of the government activity, compared to those, instead, dedicated to him as a political subject, which - as I have already said - legitimately participates in an electoral competition. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and Mixed Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u110	I give the floor to Senator La Russa to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u111	Mr President, on Monday, 3 February, however, the Minister had an hour and twenty minutes, unlike the others, it is not indisputable; it was perhaps the day when the calculations were taken - I do not know - but in the meantime he left with an hour and twenty of advantage. You see, Mr President, when the answers are already prepared and written, you run the risk of not listening or not responding to what the questioner has put. I know that ministers can run at the end of the parliamentary term, when they only function as ordinary officials. This is a supplementary issue, and you, reading - rightly the answer was already prepared - listed a whole series of figures that have less power than an economic minister. Attention, this is ridiculous. Do you know who's forbidden to run? She told the chief of the Cabinet of Gualtieri. The chief of cabinet of the Minister - he has read it and I know - is forbidden to run! [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] Therefore, his head of Cabinet cannot run, while the minister can participate for an hour and a half in a television program and make 400 nominations during the election campaign. But, since it is formally possible, you do not feel the duty and opportunity to replace the Ministry or to ask him to resign. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]] That is why we are completely dissatisfied. [[Applause from the FdI, FIBP-UDC and L-SP-PSd'Az groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u112	On behalf of the Assembly, I greet the teachers and students of the Istituto Maria Ausiliatrice delle Salesiane di Don Bosco in Genoa, who are attending our work. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u113	Senator De Petris has the right to explain the question 3-01347 on European measures to promote public investment in the green new deal for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u114	President Conte, you know very well that both in the European lines of intervention presented in December last year and in the Italian budget there are funds for the realization of the green new deal and, therefore, for a programme that - as you know - is absolutely priority for us and fundamental to the majority of government, which accompanies the right ecological transition of the productive sectors: the use of renewable energy, the creation of millions of jobs aimed at energy efficiency of public buildings, support for policies for sustainable mobility, sustainable and organic agriculture and the circular economy. We have before us the appointment of COP26 and Italy is strongly engaged in pre-COP preparation. The resources allocated, however, which also certainly indicate an effort that has never been seen to date, are downgraded in medium-long times and are barely sufficient to begin the implementation of the ecological conversion of all the productive apparatuses and services. Our budget, which, as you know, amounts up to 2034 million to 27,714 million, is certainly a first step in starting this great work and this great programme. As far as the European budget is concerned, the funds are limited and this must also be linked to the small size of the budget. As far as the Italian budget is concerned, and more generally that of the Member States which make up the European Union, this limitation must also be attributed, as you know, to the constraints of the Stability and Growth Pact, which prevent expenditure on green investment from being taken out of the calculation of these criteria. This possible green gold rule is opposed by Germany, some countries in Northern Europe, as well as by the President of the European Commission, who, not later than some time ago, slowed down very much on this assumption. Yesterday the debate began to review the budgetary rules in Europe and, therefore, we ask you what initiatives the Government intends to take in order to obtain in Europe the adoption at least of the golden rule in order to be able to exclude from the calculations, for the respect of the criteria of the Stability and Growth Pact, the investments aimed at continuing the same policies in defence of the climate, that among other things all of us and also the countries of the European Union have signed in the Paris Accords and in the COP of 2015. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, PD and M5S]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u115	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u116	With regard to the question that has just been raised by the honourable Members, it should be recalled that the green new deal fund financed for the period 2020-2023 amounts to about EUR 4 billion and can generate a higher impact on national income, by virtue of the leverage effect obtained thanks to the guarantees provided on green investment projects. In addition, the Budget Act has allocated a significant amount of resources over a longer period (from 2020 to 2034), largely earmarked for investment projects related to environmental sustainability. With regard to European appropriations for the European green deal, on 2 May 2018 the European Commission reserved - as is well known - wide scope for climate neutrality, the circular economy as part of the proposal for the multiannual financial framework for the period 2021-2027. On 11 December 2019 the Commission adopted the Communication on the European green deal, defining the future action plan for its implementation. On 14 January 2020 the Commission published two documents: firstly, the Communication on Sustainable Europe Investment Plan, the Investment Plan which is expected to mobilise up to €1,000 billion over the next ten years; secondly, the proposal for a Regulation establishing the Just Transition Fund, with €7.5 billion, able to mobilise up to €100 billion in the period 2021-2027, the objective of which is to provide an additional contribution to the EU budget to promote economic and social transition, particularly in the regions most dependent on fossil fuels and carbon-intensive industrial production. The Government is considering using resources from the Just Transition Fund in particular for the Taranto area. It was also the subject of discussion in the meeting between me and the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, the day before yesterday. It will certainly have to be verified, but there has been a great opening. With regard to the role played by national public finances, Italy is open to supporting solutions in the Community to define a more favourable treatment of investments, in particular those related to green new deal and innovation, even in the context of the sustainability of public finance. I would also point out that, coincidentally, a public consultation procedure was launched yesterday on the state of European economic governance and its future. By the end of 2020, the European Commission will reflect on the future and possible developments in economic governance, starting with the opinions and proposals that will be collected in the first half of the year. This process will certainly be an opportunity - I trust - to change the tax rules contained in the Stability and Growth Pact. In this sense, Italy will contribute to ensure that the new rules and criteria for their interpretation are able to promote and promote green investments. I would add that, again the day before yesterday, to the President of the Commission, Ursula von der Leyen, I have already anticipated what might be Italy's line of proposal, namely to reason if we want to call it green facility - if we do not want to call it golden rule - in order to promote green investment and, therefore, to overcome the present rigidity of the Stability and Growth Pact, which in our view should become a more appropriate growth and stability pact. [[Applause from the M5S, PD, IV-PSI and Mixed-LEU Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u117	Senator De Petris has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u118	I thank President Conte for his reply. We trust that there is a strong commitment from the whole government. The same statements made yesterday by Commissioner Gentiloni Silveri comfort us in this respect. It is absolutely crucial for the future of our country and for Europe not only to get out of the rigidity and the austerity period, but to do so in the name of the green new deal program and a policy that can finally become expansive in the best sense of the term from the qualitative point of view. Not only do we have to deal with the climate emergency, but we also have to push for a different development model and, therefore, for a just transition - as we call it - accelerated, reviewing the objectives, as Europe is doing, to achieve climate neutrality also quickly, and therefore in time for 2050. This gives a real prospect of building jobs. Therefore, we hope that the green golden rule can finally be realized because, until now, this has been another brake element regarding Italian investments. [[Applause from the Mixed Groups, M5S and PD.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u119	Senator Verducci has the right to explain the question 3-01350 on initiatives to enhance scientific research in Italy, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u120	Mr President-in-Office of the Council of Ministers, we strongly urge you and the Government to make the right to study, university and research the cornerstone of policies for our country and to take concrete, urgent action. It is from the investments in research that depends our future if Italy wants to be, in the coming decades, a country capable of guarding the most advanced front of technologies at the time of big data, artificial intelligence and a revolution that is transforming the way of life and work and professional figures, that is rewriting the paradigms of our society; if Italy wants to be able to assure its citizens of widespread well-being, rights, inclusion, redistribution of wealth, opportunities and power; if Italy wants to be reference, in Europe and in the world, for the quality of its democracy and economy. Then, we must open our university and research system because today too many young people, President Conte, who come from conditions of difficulty, cannot continue to study and is a huge loss for the future of our country in terms of competitiveness and inequality. There are too few subscribers, graduates, researchers; too few investments in innovation and research. President Conte, the Public Education Commission, cultural assets of the Senate is carrying out a cognitive investigation on the student condition and precariousness in research, because the two phenomena are connected, because the precarious is the enemy of research, which needs continuity and autonomy, while the current system exploits a precarious structural consequence of financial cuts and wrong rules. Then we need funding for new recruitments and stabilisations and we need to change the rules (we have deposited special drafts here). Those rules, today, cause 90 percent of researchers to be expelled at the end of a 12-year-long precariousness. Yet, our researchers are a recognized excellence in the world, with a coefficient of success in driving the major research projects, which is among the highest ever. We are all enormously proud of the doctors Capobianchi, Colavita and Castilletti, the researchers of Spallanzani who isolated the coronavirus and, in the war against the time to eradicate the pandemic, made Italian research have a place of honor. [[Applause from the PD and M5S groups]] President Conte, the only true way to say thank you, to say thank you to those who, every day, in laboratories, often in the silence of the media and indifference of politics, work to make our country bigger and safer, is to invest in research, remove them from precariousness, do not waste any talent, give everyone the opportunity to study and do research in Italy. [[Applause from the PD Group and Senator Pharaoh]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u121	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u122	Mr President, I would also like to thank the interrogating senators because, with their question, they allow me to illustrate, albeit briefly, one of the most important aspects of the work that this Government intends to carry out. It is strong and shared, in fact, the awareness that moral and material progress, the very future of our young people and our country, can no longer ignore an investment that is concrete, consistent and even lasting in the lines of action of university and research. The first measures which have been included in the budget law, mentioned by the honourable Member, are therefore moving in this direction, with the aim, first of all, of guaranteeing new resources - as you know - for the right to university study and, secondly, of extending the number of specialist training contracts for doctors. We have had - as I recall - very little time, a few weeks, to develop the measures included in the budget law. The revival of university and research requires an articulated, well-structured strategy; frankly, it was difficult to express it in just a few weeks. However, we are aware that now is the time to develop this strategic development line. And, in confirmation of the strong desire to invest permanently in the world of university and research, there was a first significant signal, namely that of establishing a specific Ministry to which to entrust the responsibility to govern, with absolute dedication, the challenges that await us in these areas, as well as that of equal excellence - let us not forget - of the high artistic, musical and choreutica formation. This, moreover, is a choice that I believe will be very useful and will also benefit the world of school. In this direction, I would like to point out a number of concrete measures which are the result of the new approach. Already during the conversion of the so-called milleproroghe decree-law, the Government presented an extraordinary plan for the recruitment of 1,600 researchers and for the progression of about 1,000 aspirants to the role of second-class professor. It is, therefore, a concrete act with an investment also important (we are around 100 million), especially at this moment when we have just completed the resources indicated in economic maneuver: it was and is a difficult time. It is a measure that constitutes an immediate opportunity for the expectations of our best young people, who are finally offered a serious alternative to continue investing in their professional growth here, in our country. I would like to make it very clear that, of course, this intervention, which I consider to be very important and strategic, will in no way be sufficient if it is not accompanied by cyclical and structural measures, i.e. able to offer a stable reliance on the growth prospects of the many extraordinary people who populate our universities and feed our research, some of whom you have also mentioned. For this reason, the priority objectives of this Government include the desire to launch a multi-annual recruitment plan for around 2,000 researchers per year for five years. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups and the Senators Unterberger and Buccarella]] I would like to draw attention to the five-year period, which is designed to enable universities and research organisations - which are also involved - to make programming, at least in the medium term. It is in fact important to invest in research and innovation by guaranteeing first of all value, stability, economic security to those who produce or who are able to produce the best ideas for our future already today. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u123	Senator Iori has the right to intervene in response for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u124	I thank the President of the Council for his detailed and very precise response, which gives great importance to research, and not only for the scientific aspects, but also for the concrete development of our country, and therefore from the point of view not only academic, but also economic, cultural and social. In particular, I am satisfied with the pre-announcement of the high number of researchers (1,600 and subsequent 2,500), which correspond to what is proposed by the Democratic Party. Certainly the numbers are never too high for the search and, therefore, we will continue to ask to increase them again, but I think it is an important and significant first step. Research is a fundamental tool - it has been mentioned the work done by researchers for the isolation of coronavirus - and certainly in our country is a point of pride and excellence. And that's exactly what I think we're gonna have to keep working on. I want to hope that all this will happen quickly to stop the so-called brain drain as soon as possible and to be able to keep in our country the people we have formed. Finally, I would like to stress that it is not just a question of numbers, even if we start from numbers of course. It is important to invest also on the paths and the research tools to respond to the challenges that await us in the future of our country and for its development, and therefore on cross-cutting skills that can respond to a contamination between knowledge, rather than a separation - as unfortunately still happens - in our universities. [[Applause from the M5S and PD Groups.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u125	Senator Bagnai has the right to explain the question 3-01349 on access to documents relating to the work of the Eurogroup and the Euro Summits, for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u126	Prime Minister, in a police officer in the late 1980s, a commissioner, addressing the inspector who asked him how to relate to journalists who wanted information, ruled: "treat them like mushrooms"; to the inspector's perplexity, the Commissioner specified: "keep them in the dark and cover them with manure." In the economy of the company this principle of administration is called mushroom management and it is the way in which its multiple governments have treated this Parliament in its legitimate desire to be informed about what happens "where you can". [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] The reply received has always been a substantial and no longer to be sent. The question before you, therefore, is not only about specific acts of your Government, about the reluctances and ambiguities which, in our opinion, have spoiled the negotiations on deepening the European Union with the well-known ESM affair; Therefore - as I have already pointed out in this House - it is literally impossible to understand at what stage this negotiation has reached. In particular, it is impossible to understand whether the so-called package logic has been respected or was just one of its own dilatory expedients. The question is about a fundamental question: what is the sense of belonging to the European Union? At the very least, we believe that the point should be to achieve greater and not less protection of our citizenship rights. These include the right to transparency, protected by Article 42 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, in direct connection with the right to good administration, as laid down in Article 41 of the Charter itself, which provides, inter alia, for the administration's obligation to give reasons for its decisions. If this is the case for every citizen, we believe that this also applies to the representatives of the citizens at a time when they wish, in order to respect the mandate they have received from the voters - a fact which has not occurred in your case - to ensure that the mandate they have given to the Government has been respected. In our view, to this requirement, national legislation specifically protects by Article 4 of Law No 234 of 2012, cannot oppose secrecy except in the circumstances specifically regulated by European legislation, such as the confidentiality of information that may affect markets. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]] We therefore contend with the view of Ministers and officials of its many governments that the Eurogroup operates under a bond of secrecy and is legibus solutus in particular when acting as legislator. And we kindly ask you to provide us with the sources of the right that you believe justify such abuse. [[Applause from the L-SP-PSd'Az Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u127	The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u128	With regard to the issue of transparency and the doubts that have been raised through this question on confidentiality constraints, it is first recalled that the work of the Eurogroup - as provided for in Protocol 14 to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union - constitutes an informal meeting of Finance Ministers of the euro area Member States and that, according to its working methods, defined in 2008, its work is confidential. Therefore, it is not possible to provide the public with specific minutes of the discussions which took place during its meetings. European Regulation No 1049 of 2001 on public access to European Parliament, Council and Commission documents - I repeat these specific institutions - is not directly applicable to the Eurogroup. For all intents and purposes, the results of the Eurogroup meeting are public - yes - and available for consultation on the Council of the European Union website. With reference to the outcome of the above-mentioned dialogue with the Ombudsman O'Reilly, a reflection has been launched on a possible revision of the transparency policy of the Eurogroup, with the aim of achieving an optimal balance between the need for confidentiality and confidentiality of the activities of the Eurogroup and the opposite need to inform the public. In this regard, the European transparency policy review and way forward document of 20 September 2019 mentions some of the initiatives that the Eurogroup intends to implement precisely in order to increase its transparency. With regard to the restriction of confidentiality on the work of the Eurosummit, it is also recalled that, under the rules for the organisation of the activities of the Eurosummit, the deliberations of the summits are covered by professional secrecy. Therefore, it is not possible to provide the public with reports or minutes of the work and discussions of the Eurosummit meetings. With reference to the premise of the question, it is stated that, in the letter of 5 December 2019 of the President of the Eurogroup Centeno to the President of the Eurosummit Charles Michel, the first states that, on the basis of the broad agreement reached in June 2019, the Eurogroup has continued to work on the comprehensive reform package of the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), on the further strengthening of the banking union and on the outstanding issues related to the fiscal instrument for convergence and competitiveness for the euro area. Specifically with regard to the European Stability Mechanism (ESM), the Eurogroup reached agreement in principle on a package of documents related to its reform, subject of course to the conclusion of national procedures. With regard to other aspects relating to the deepening of economic and monetary union and, in particular, of banking union, decisions on the modification of the prudential treatment of government securities held by banks have been avoided. Compared to the European deposit insurance scheme, whose now famous acronym is EDIS, the negotiations have been relaunched and will continue over the coming months. Despite the aforementioned confidentiality requirements, however, the outcome of the eurosummit of 13 November 2019 is clearly desumable from the statement published at the end of the summit. No finalisation of the ESM reform package is mentioned in this statement, but it is stated that the Eurogroup has been mandated to continue its work subject to the conclusion of national procedures and to continue to work on all aspects of the further strengthening of the banking union on a consensual basis. This outcome - if you will allow me, for nothing at all - is, in addition to a undoubted success, also a strong point for Italy and is consistent with the logic of the package, later affirmed in the parliamentary majority resolution that was adopted on 11 December 2019. [[Applause from the M5S, PD and IV-P.S.I. Groups]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u129	I give the floor to Senator Bagnai to respond for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u130	Prime Minister, I do not know if you ever wanted to be a good lawyer for the Italian people, but it was certainly not, here in this House, what you obviously want to be, that is, a good lawyer for the European project. Its response is unsatisfactory and unnecessarily highlights the European Union, which is portrayed as a political project, in which the destinies of people are entrusted to an informal body, to four friends at the bar. You may think so, but you know very well that this is not the view of the European authorities, starting with the Ombudsman, which you have mentioned and which has already been dealt with on several occasions. The documents of the Eurogroup are Council documents, as is also specified in the answer received by Dr Grizzuti of the daily newspaper "The Truth" and therefore fall within the scope of Regulation No1049/2001. The same argument is supported in the letter that the Ombudsman addressed on 14 March 2016 to the President of the Eurogroup, where it was also stated that the documents of the preparatory bodies of the Eurogroup - those technical bodies, which have now closed in curly, after here, in this Chamber, we raised the case of the ESM - which Minister Gualtieri would call the General Secretariat of the Council (GSC), EFC (Economic and financial committee), EPC (Economic policy committee) and EWG (Eurogroup working group), are also subject to the same regulation and, therefore, transparency is required for them. So we are sorry, but I do not think it has succeeded in concealing the fact that what you have called package logic, in fact, has proved to be a logical - alas - package. (The Senators of the Group) [[L-SP-PSd'Az show a banner with the written "MES": from package to package.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u131	No! I'm suspending the session. (The sitting was suspended at 16.07 a.m. and resumed at 16.10 a.m.)
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u132	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the phenomenon of epochal consequences that is characterizing international trade relations, with real trade wars that are primarily the subject of the American Presidency's decision to overcome the concept of multilateralism in international trade, which referred to the activity of the World Trade Organisation, where the United States effectively impedes the functioning of the body's appeal court. I shall therefore address the effects of these wars on our economy. On October 2, 2019, the WTO first allowed the United States, condemning the European Union, to impose customs duties of up to $7.5 billion against the policy of incorrect support of European companies against Boeing to support the Airbus consortium. From this condemnation comes for Italy a damage that has been quantified in the meantime in about 468 million. Italy is not known as part of the Airbus consortium, yet it is penalized and affected in the sectors of excellence, in particular agri-food. The U.S. Department of Commerce has now completed a further round of checks in this area and by 15 February could extend additional customs tariffs that would affect Italian exports to the United States, for a much higher amount, up to 3 billion euros. These tariffs would affect not only dairy products and wine, but also other products of particular excellence. In this regard, the Government should be asked whether, in the context of bilateral contacts, there has been excessive penalisation of Italian products and whether business support measures are in place to prevent the consequences of restrictive measures imposed by the United States on the European Union falling without distinction on all the Member States of the European Union, rather than on the countries involved in the Airbus dispute alone. It also wonders whether initiatives are being considered to prevent the economic losses that would inevitably result from the imposition of additional duties, in particular on the production of Italian agri-food excellence. PRESIDENT. - The debate is The President of the Council of Ministers, Professor Conte, may answer the question which has just been put for three minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u133	As is well known and reported by the questioners themselves, the duties imposed by the US administration are directed against the European Union as a whole, hitting all the countries of the Union and not only unfortunately the members of the Airbus consortium (United Kingdom, France, Spain and Germany), even if the latter have suffered the greatest consequences. Italy, although it was a country less affected than the countries that are part of the consortium, has suffered considerable damage, in particular in some sectors of excellence of our export, such as agro-food. Our action has been immediate, indeed preventive, because it has been carried out at several levels and bilaterally, in Europe, with concrete initiatives in support of our companies. We will continue to work to defend and promote Italian commercial interests, bearing in mind that the United States has already started the procedures for the possible revision of the Airbus duty list (what in technical jargon they call carousel), in the knowledge that export and made in Italy are lifeblood for our economy. The question of duties has always played an important role in all our very high-level consultations with the United States. I remember President Mattarella's visit to Washington in mid-October 2019; I remember my conversation with President Trump at the NATO summit in early December last year. I remember, again, my conversation with Vice President Pence a few days ago in Rome; the visits of Minister Di Maio to Washington and Rome by Secretary of State Pompeo, whom I also met at the Berlin Conference. On all these occasions we have always, in a cohesive and constant way, insisting on the attention of the United States to the specific position of Italy, but also in a more general and strategic sense on our interest, Europe and the United States themselves, to avoid a commercial escalation that could only benefit our international competitors. On the contrary, we must work to develop a positive economic and trade agenda between Washington and Brussels and, in parallel, I can assure you that we are in every way and in various ways supporting the new European Commission in the search for a negotiated solution with the United States. This topic was also at the heart of the talks the other day with Council President Charles Michel and Commission President Ursula von der Leyen. Also in view of the parallel dispute, which is no less important, but also an incident, at the WTO on US subsidies to Boeing, whose arbitration ruling could in turn allow the European Union to apply duties to the American aviation industry, I have expressed to the highest institutions of the European Union the determined support of our Government so that they can work and facilitate constructive negotiations, also with a view to the next mission in Washington, of which President Ursula von der Leyen will lead. [[Applause from the M5S Group]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u134	I call Senator Fantetti to speak for two minutes.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u135	Mr President, I am moderately satisfied and wish you good work on the objectives mentioned in your speech. I remember, moreover, that the imposition of duties on the original Italian products of Made in Italy only encourages the proliferation of fake products, those that refer to Italian origin, but that are not. In this sense, I regret once again - and I take this opportunity - that the Government did not want to exploit a proposal that we have repeatedly mentioned in the last budget law. I am referring to the possibility of using the great ambassadors we have all over the world. I'm talking about Italian restaurateurs. We had proposed that the Italian State officially recognize the real Italian restaurants abroad because they are the first defenders of Made in Italy. This opportunity has not been taken into account in the last financial law. We take it and hope it can be done as soon as possible. [[Applause from the FIBP-UDC Group.]]
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u136	The question-time questions on the agenda are thus exhausted.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u137	The motions, questions and questions received by the Presidency, as well as the documents and documents forwarded to the standing committees pursuant to Rule 34 (1), second sentence, of the Rules of Procedure shall be published in Annex B to the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-IT_2020-02-06-LEG18-Senato-sed-188.ana.u138	The Senate will meet again in public session on Tuesday 11 February, at 4.30 p.m., with the following agenda: (See agenda) The sitting was closed at 16.19 a.m.
