ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e601	Ladies and gentlemen! The 131. The meeting of the National Council dedicated to the exclusive discussion of EU issues is open. Deputies of Murauer, Broukal, Dr. Einm, Csörgits, Heinisch-Hosek, Prehauser and Mag are reported as prevented. Worm. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e629	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following communication: Federal Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsselwill be represented by the Deputy Chancellor and Federal Minister for Transport, Innovation and Technology Hubert Gorbach. Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröllwill be represented by the Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallat. Assignment
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e665	The Government template: Federal Act amending the Federal Roads Act 2002, the ASFINAG Act and the ASFINAG Authorization Act 1997 (1262 of the Supplements), I shall assign it to the Transport Committee. [[09:02:07]] Griefing
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e698	Ladies and gentlemen! Before I go to the meeting, I ask you to rise from the seats. [[All present rise from their places.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, the news has reached us that the very well-deserved and long-term employee of the Social Democratic Parliament Club, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Robert Schnattinger, suddenly, at the age of 49, died. Mr Dipl.-Ing. Schnattinger has served Parliament for 20 years, the Parliamentary Club of the Social Democratic Party. Dipl.-Ing. Schnatinger was an expert in agriculture and forestry, energy policy and environmental impact assessment. He was appreciated in all political groups as an expert, as a dialogueist employee. His family mourns for him. He's got a son and a daughter who's still going to school. Our sympathy and compassion is with them. I ask you to remember him briefly. [[Those present persist for some time in dumb mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] [[09:03:19]] Commission legislative programme
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e748	We are now on the subject of the Commission's legislative programme. As agreed at the Presidential Conference, the debate will be held as follows: First of all, a speaker of the SPÖ club with 10 minutes, then a member of the government with 10 minutes, then a speaker of the political groups with a total of 25 minutes each, with a speaker of the SPÖ club speaking each time and then a speaker of the ÖVP club, the Free and the Green Club respectively. After the first and second round of speakers, two other members of the government will speak with 10 minutes each. The first speaker to initiate the debate is Mr Gusenbauer. His speaking time is 10 minutes. – Mr Dr Gusenbauer, I would ask you to take the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e778	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If we are speaking today in Parliament about the question of the legislative programme of the European Union for the next half of the year, it should be noted that this legislative programme is more or less the summary of all of the European Union's projects, i.e. projects that lead to a change in life in Europe and a redefined framework. Against the background of this legislative programme, of course, the question must be asked: What would be necessary, what are the challenges facing Europe today, and how should the European Union respond to these challenges? As social democrats, we believe that low economic growth and high unemployment in Europe are the main problem of the European Union, which is the cause of a wealth of social and economic outrages. Therefore, we believe that the European Union will only gain more acceptance among citizens if economic growth is increased and unemployment is reduced in Europe. That's the main task. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] It must be said that there are very different ideas about how this should work. There are some who have had the most say in recent years that, with increased liberalisation, the reduction of social and welfare protection mechanisms would lead to more economic growth and would result in lower unemployment. There is the continental European model, which is based on a high level of protection, but which has also produced very modest economic growth rates in recent years. And the most successful model at this time, the Scandinavian model, is to combine high competitiveness with strong social integration in society, according to all the clues we have, that model that is able to achieve. I believe that what is urgently necessary is to look at these success models in Europe, because increasing competitiveness for its own purpose will no longer lead European citizens to accept them. No, what you need is increased competitiveness in order to increase prosperity. And for this the key seems to be primarily in education, science, research and social security. Or to summarize it: People should not be put before the social abyss to motivate them to become more committed and competitive, because the opposite is true: Where people live most securely where social security is most stable, there are also the most competitiveness and commitment. And we should try to realize this not only in Scandinavia, but throughout Europe, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the Greens and the Freemans.]] In addition to these different attitudes, which exist in Europe, there is also the fundamental question: How do we deal with the financing of social and welfare states? What has happened in recent years has been a one-sided tax race, where corporate income taxes have been dramatically reduced, but at the same time, VAT and income taxes have remained very high throughout Europe. This dramatic race at corporate income tax level has led to the question of financing the social and welfare state in many countries. And if you want to prevent this tax race from also leading to it becoming a race in the reduction of the social and welfare state, then you have to stop this tax race. It would be urgent to end this tax race under Austrian chairmanship in the next half year and to come to a common approach to corporate income taxes in Europe, because this is the only way we can get the social and welfare state, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] Today, when the Foreign Minister, together with her colleagues, is discussing the future budget of the European Union or the financial perspective for the coming years, these are fundamental points and not just: How do we finance enlargement, which has already been implemented? Which priorities will be set in the future, but above all: Who are winners and losers of this financial change? If one hears the first messages about preliminary talks that are obviously taking place, I do not believe that it corresponds to our interest when a conclusion is reached on the basis of the basis of which one hears now. What Europe urgently needs is a change in finances towards the future. That means more resources for research and development. What Europe needs is not an even greater promotion of large-scale agricultural industries, but, for example, of small and mining workers. And I do not think it right that under this title of the Financial Perspective the fate and income of small farmers and miners on the altar of a French-British compromise are now sacrificed. [[Abg. Grill: That's what you support!]] We are talking about maintaining jobs in agriculture and not about the large agricultural industry, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] So, of course, the question is: What is Austria's position in this context? What will the Austrian Foreign Minister say today in the negotiations, and will it finally be this waste of money...? – Yes, Mr Grillitsch, you have always agreed when it comes to promoting the large agricultural industries in Europe and at the same time reducing farmers. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] They are responsible for the deaths of farmers in Europe! This is the truth, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Grill: You want to destroy the little ones!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It must finally be over with a policy of wasteful money, where surplus production is invested and farmers are increasingly difficult at the same time. I do not understand why you can at all call yourself farmers' representatives if you say yes to this farmer's death, Mr Grillitsch. Change your policy – it would be urgent! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In addition to financial change, other changes are urgently needed, namely with regard to the question of democracy in Europe. [[Abg. Grossruck: If you were in government, there would be no farmers at all!]] People are increasingly less accepting that there are governments hiding behind the European Union and saying that we must do something special just because it buys us the European Union without the citizens having the opportunity to discuss it before. This leads to the increasing alienation of people from the European Union, and this leads to a reduction in democracy. If one wants to bring Europe closer to the citizens, it is urgently necessary that Europe should be democratised and finally stop hiding behind the European Union, because this only leads to European hostility, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this context, of course, is a very hot question: What happens to the Constitutional Treaty? Unfortunately, this Constitutional Treaty has failed in individual European states. And I ask myself the question of whether wisdom can be the last thing to do now simply not do anything, just leave time in the country and wait until something may change somewhere. I do not think that Europe's democratic deficits will be resolved by themselves. On the contrary: It requires new courage, new commitment and a resurgence of the idea of European democracy, if one wants to see Europe's problems addressed at the same time and people's consent to Europe increased. That is why the Austrian Presidency has a very, very great responsibility here, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. It is a crucial phase of the European Union, where large unsolved chunks are on the table and where the question of where the EU will develop in the future can be given a decisive change. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Europe and Austria are well served by bringing Europe on the path of prosperity and jobs and democracy. – And that is exactly what we expect from an Austrian Presidency!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e922	Mr Gorbach spoke on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e944	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues in the government! Ladies and gentlemen. Today in 25 days we will be with 1. January 2006 after exactly seven years, the Presidency will again be held in the European Union. This, of course, as noted in the first speech, is a great challenge, even in the light of the fact that a lot has done in these seven years – “a lot has done” also means: a lot has changed. Let's just think about two things: We are no longer 15 in the EU, we are 25. The Commission also consists of 25 members. Two countries are on the verge of inclusion, others are being discussed again or still. Or do we think of the Treaty of Nice, which gives the European Parliament different rights. All of this, of course, means that the difficult tasks we face are even more difficult and that the challenge in this context is even greater. Ladies and gentlemen! The Austrian Federal Government was and is willing to play an active and constructive role in the European process in future, to be an active and positive part of this European Union, and we will be able to clarify and prove this clearly during our Presidency in the first half of 2006. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It would hardly be possible to say anything to the EU today, to Europe, without including the current debate on the financial plan. It is very important to be aware of the financial framework in order to be able to act accordingly where something is to work. You know that today EU Member States' foreign ministers meet on a so-called conclave to discuss this financial plan and to prepare what is to be discussed in the European Council next week and what hopefully will be the basis for the creation of Europe in financial terms for the years 2007 to 2013. I mean, even if this has already been tailor-made, we are not far apart here, and that is actually a positive thing for the Presidency, because I also believe that without prejudicing foreign minister and Chancellors here, this draft is, from an Austrian point of view, a draft that has to be critical of, and that actually shows where the need for this European Union lies. The draft shows too little mobility in the British discount. The draft shows too little mobility in terms of agriculture, France. And that's the point. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that if we want to lead this European Union successfully into the next decades, we all have to think about something: It needs then and when a little more consensus, a little more willingness to see the whole, a little more willingness to recognize the concerns of other members not only, but also to take seriously and become more flexible out of this situation, even though it is not always easy to have to explain this in your own country, in your own state; I understand Tony Blair. But we cannot lose this task to the British Presidency in the last few days. The British have this task, and I expect more movement to come in here, especially with regard to the British rebate. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I see another common ground, Mr Gusenbauer: They have talked about innovation, technology, research and development. This means that if we force these points and provide them with the corresponding budget, more competitiveness and thus location security, job security and job creation in Europe. Without a doubt, this will be the challenge not only in Austria in the coming months and even in the coming years, but also in Europe as a whole. The Constitutional Treaty issue was also mentioned. Following the negative views in France and the Netherlands, the Heads of State and Government declared in June 2005 that in the first half of 2006 an evaluation of all national discussions on the future of Europe and agreed on the further progress of the ratification process. That's not an easy task. I mean, we will not be able to go to the agenda by continuing after a stop of thinking, after a cooling break where we have stopped. With “we” I mean all of Europe. I say quite deliberately, although no vote has taken place in Austria. But the mood is insurmountable and insurmountable. The population is expecting a Europe, a Union in which the competences are clearly and, as I believe, re-distributed. These competences must be shared in such a way that the regions, countries and nations feel that they are a solid part and as important as larger parts of the European Union, so that they can communicate directly to the public that the proximity to Brussels within the European Union is very good. What I want to say is: We can give rise to the fact that the European Union's leadership is becoming aware that at European level only what the EU needs to regulate and everything else is to be regulated where it can be done better. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] People need to regain confidence in this European Union, and Austria does not have the easy task of making a significant contribution to this during the Presidency. I believe that confidence can be gained if one speaks not only of the Europe of the regions and of the principle of subsidiarity, but also of living it in all directions. Yesterday, in the discussions in Brussels, I repeatedly mentioned something very important, namely that we also have to take into account the impact on costs in everything we decide to do in Brussels. This too is something that the citizen sees very critical: bureaucracy, administration and the resulting costs. Austria can be exemplary during the Presidency of the Council, and we will make every effort. On the topic of research and development: It is about negotiations on the Seventh Framework Programme, which will be a very important phase in this area. I can only say that, when we deal with research and development on a budgetary basis, we must take action to ensure that this position is better taught than before. This is an investment in the future, which is an investment in competitiveness, and that is an investment in jobs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In which areas of application research is received everywhere, we must also draw closer to the citizen, so that he can recognize and derive an added value, a personal benefit from it. We are trying this, I believe, with a right approach by making safety research a very important subject. [[Abg. Oil: Tempo 160!]] We will be working together with the European Commission on 20 and 21. The European Conference on Security Research, Vienna, will be held in Vienna in February 2006, where the Commission will be prominently represented. [[Abg. Oils: Transport safety!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Tempo 160 – a contribution to road safety!]] Return to your calls: Of course, the issue of transport will also be an important part of the discussions during the Presidency. It will not surprise you, and it is no coincidence that the focus is on transport safety. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser.]] The Informal Council on 2 and 3 March. March in Bregenz will devote itself to road safety, in particular the e-safety, so what one can contribute technically, electronically everything to increase safety in transport. There will also be awareness raising, and campaigns will take place across the borders of individual countries across Europe. The road safety system is being run to ensure that we want to introduce our own safety culture on European roads during our presidency. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Success gives me the right thing. I would now be discussing the success of transport safety in Austria, but let me say that within the transport sector the rail will be an important priority. The third railway package, and thus the strengthening of rail throughout Europe, will be an essential component and focus of the Austrian Presidency within the EU. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Austria is the top of traffic accidents!]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to invite you to cooperate together in the first half of 2006 across the party borders, that Austria is making a good contribution to improving the difficult situation and mastering the challenges. There's a saying that means: We're strong together. This is an old saying, but despite the many years it has lost nothing at all in attractiveness. And that's what we want to live: Together, we want to strengthen this European Union and bring it back to the public's awareness, positive awareness. I invite you, with us, to take advantage of the opportunity with the government, to look back proudly on these in July 2006 after a hopefully successful Presidency of Austria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e1076	The next speaker was Mr. Dr. Cap. His speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e1134	Mr President. High house! We are dealing with the work and programme of the European Commission, i.e. what it is planning in the next few years – and of course also what the Federal Government has to do with it. If you read through the programme and study it carefully, you will conclude that although the crucial questions are addressed, the big question of the solutions remains unanswered. We are faced with the fact that there are about 20 million unemployed throughout the European Union, and there is a fact that the pressure of globalisation is recognised, but that no answers are still on the table. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Großruck]] The fears of those living in the European Union have been expressed by the negative results of the two constitutional referendums taking place in France and Holland. This was an expression of the fact that the majority of citizens do not agree with the policy to be taken by national governments in the European Union and which the European Union itself is responsible for. [[Abg. Felzmann: That's not true!]] I have read the interview in the “trend” with Federal Chancellor Schüssel very carefully. The stand has always come: You have to explain Europe to people! – If you are content to explain Europe to people as it is, then you will never find approval, then there will never be acceptance, then there will never be support! Europe, as it is, is not the Europe that we have promised to form when we in Austria stood up for Austria to become a member of the European Union. We said at that time that Europe is not only a peace project, a political project and an economic project, but Europe is also a social project. But this, ladies and gentlemen of the two government parties, is not heard from you! There are reports of success on enlargement and further enlargement, but it is not said that there are strong neo-liberal internal market philosophers in the European Union, for which the enlargement process is in fact the instrument for wage pressure, social reduction, tax competition and location competition – no matter what political direction. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Tony Blair!]] [[Abg. Dr. stupid: Tony Blair!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Friend Tony Blair!]] The Austrian Federal Government has essentially joined these neo-liberal currents of the other national governments – and you know that very well. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Mr. S & D!]] It is only necessary to listen to the government representatives' advertising speeches on the EU Services Directive. They say in Austria: Yes, it is good for companies to offer their services at the prices of their country of origin, which are well below the costs of small and medium-sized enterprises, in Austria! That's good, that's what we hear here. They are the representatives of neoliberalism, which prevails in the European Union and also in Austria! They carry this along and continue to implement it in the European Union! That's what I'm telling you! We will not explain such a Europe! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Remember When the European Union's growth initiative was discussed, do you still consider it? – At that time, Minister of Finance, Grasser, was on the other side. Grasser went even further and said: Whoever in the Maastricht criteria, who says how much debt a state can make if it serves the economy, growth and employment, even looses a little bit, should have no voting right at all! That's where Grasser got his pre-democratic attacks again! That was the position you represented at the time. Grasser, Minister Bartenstein and Federal Chancellor Schüssel were the trio that, in fact, tried to enforce this at European level. You can drive through Austria with so many buses and containers, I ask you: What do you want to explain to people? 20 million unemployed, an inactive Austrian government, no growth, no employment, the enlargement process as part of a neoliberal programme – do you want to explain this to people? [[Abg. Dr. stupid: This is pure populism!]] You're just shaking your head, Mr. Deputies stupid: If you continue to shake it, do not stop it, because during the Austrian Presidency, there will still be a discussion about something else, and now you are sleeping in it because you refuse to take steps to actually clarify this visa scandal. Austria is the open gate with bought visas in the Schengen area. That's what you have to answer. They all put the head in the sand and refuse to take the head out again. You can't see anything down there, you won't be able to shake your head in the sand, because you're not moving then. I'll tell you: The truth is, you have to answer that! It is already being discussed that it is about tens of thousands of visas purchased at a million altitudes. There should be a network, a criminal network – and the foreign office should be involved! ==References== On September, you have had proofs, positively completed application forms, destroyed visas. At some point in time, You will then say that they can now set up a parliamentary committee of inquiry, because now we have already destroyed everything, now there is nothing more to investigate! – This is the philosophy behind it. And you want to explain this Europe to people?- Oh, my God! What is the draft of the Austrian Federal Government for the Presidency? What's the project? What do you describe in the next six months? Where are the medium and long-term objectives? What should the Social Union look like in Europe? What is the political project? How do we intend to maintain that the Constitutional Treaty is finally put into effect so that the instruments are available for the previous enlargements? [[Abg. Großruck: Tell me what you want!]] Where's all this? Ladies and gentlemen of the coalition parties, you should listen to the citizens! If you are concerned about the European Union, you should take action to ensure that this acceptance is accepted in the population, that it is a balance between the economy and the social sector, that it is a political project, which is also in economic terms. The area is competitive with China, to name it now, and in the political field with the USA! For example, we should have a common foreign and security policy so that we are partners and factors! But you can't guarantee that! They are sleeping in a Presidency at the expense of Austria and the European Union!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e1290	Ladies and gentlemen! As President, I would like to say: We have introduced European days to discuss specific European issues. Today we have the European Commission's legislative programme on the agenda, i.e. the work programme is debated. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I would be very pleased if there were not a general political debate on all the problems of Europe, but on the Commission's legislative programme. I have not yet heard any comments from the individual proposals. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: This is immense!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators:... Vice chancellors, that would have been courageous!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Spindelegger is speaking as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e1359	Mr President. Estimated members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! What would a great SPÖ foreign politician like Bruno Kreisky say if he heard a speech by Mr Gusenbauer or Mr Cap about these European political challenges? [[Abg. Neudeck: He'd go out!]] Ladies and gentlemen! I'm convinced he'd turn away with greys! – We've come this far today! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In particular, I would like to say to television operators that this issue has not been selected by the ÖVP. SPÖ wanted us to discuss the Commission's legislative programme for the next year today. [[Abg. Kößl: ( towards SPÖ) Thematic failure!]] You see what these two tips of the SPÖ have to say about it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Call the ÖVP: Nothing!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Has You have heard an initiative, have you heard a proposal that the SPÖ would have planned for our presidency for the next year? [[Abg. Kößl: ( towards SPÖ) Only polemik!]] Did you hear any comments about the content? No, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Eder: Now swim the skins of it!]] But the sad part is that this is not a coincidence today: This is the system in the SPÖ. [[Abg. Reheis: System is to do everything bad! That's your system!]] It is sad for a former state-bearing party, as the Social Democrats have been for decades, ladies and gentlemen, if you slide like this! I really think this is a symptom of a way to have a discussion here in the house, which can only result in an aversion from this Social Democratic Party. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Is this the legislative programme, Mr President?]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Reheis: That's bad what you're doing!]] Ladies and gentlemen, it is so important for us in Austria for the next half year that, when we have Europe to lead, we set impulses – impulses that bring us on a different path than before. [[Abg. Reheis: You don't set impulses in Austria, and you won't set impulses in Europe!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, listen once, perhaps you can learn a little bit about the Commission's legislative programme from my remarks. [[Abg. Reheis: You will continue your weak policy in Europe!]] I would like to introduce a few initiatives that we are planning because we believe that, as an Austrian, we must also give this Europe a different face. We from the Austrian People's Party have always been a very per-European party, and we are still that. We would therefore like to take advantage of the opportunity for Austria to hold the EU Presidency for six months and to make progress on the crucial issues. Let me give you a few examples: Of course, we are primarily concerned with the economy, with growth and, above all, with jobs in this Europe. But concrete initiatives need to be put in place. The pity that Mr Cap has told us that under a British Presidency and under the "parade socialist" Tony Blair in Europe, nothing has gone further, we know too, but that is not Austria's fault, since you must already contact your own party colleagues in Europe. [[Abg. Reheis: It's not about people! That's the point!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What we have to do, ladies and gentlemen, is to continue where this Lisbon strategy has ceased: We must demand from each Member State a dedicated national reform plan in order to achieve growth and employment. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's probably a frog!]] Take only Austria: What have we done in the context of youth employment? [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Nothing!]] We have also discussed this in this House, but you have apparently missed it, Mr President. We have introduced the so-called Blum bonus for the apprentices. 8 500 jobs in Austria are now offered in addition because the entrepreneurs also accept this because this gives young people a chance! [[Abg. Oils: What about the unemployment of young people?]] This can be a model for Europe, and we would like to continue this during our presidency. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We want money to be spent in Europe for research, European funds. Yes, we need to! We must be competitive with the “rest” of the world, and this requires excellent training, but it also requires appropriate resources to ensure that research can also provide a competitive advantage. We will take action to achieve this, and we will also bring something together during the Presidency in this regard as part of our initiatives. Of course, we will also support improvements to those who directly create jobs, namely small and medium-sized enterprises. Our goal is the middle class – not only in Austria, but throughout Europe, because we can assume that jobs are actually created there. We will become an initiative. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this Austrian Presidency, however, I believe, also has the task of dealing with security in Europe and outside Europe, particularly with security in our neighbouring regions. [[Abg. Heinzl: Visa Scandal!]] We believe that the current state of South-East Europe, where Austrians are also used as soldiers, cannot be the endpoint. We are glad that there are safe and stable conditions there today, but that cannot be a permanent state. We do not want security to exist in Bosnia-Herzegovina or Kosovo in the future, because there are thousands of soldiers there who can intervene immediately in the event of an emergency. We must take initiatives to ensure that there can be lasting peace, stability and prosperity through democratic processes, through a future discussion of the status. This is a task that we are dedicated to, because we feel particularly responsible for this space precisely because of its proximity. A second major point, where we want to focus in Austria through a Kosovo conference, through a status conference for South-East Europe, one that I believe is the right focus. Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, I would also, of course, like to address this issue, which is so important to us today, because citizens are turning away from this'remote Europe'. As many rules as we currently have in Europe do not make it possible to reach citizens! On the contrary! We should therefore, with all due emphasis, set an initiative in the direction of subsidiarity. We represent this in Austria – we have a federal principle – but we should extend it to Europe. We should plan a subsidiarity conference under the Austrian Presidency, where we are questioning what we will not better regulate at national or regional level in the future – and not try to determine everything in Brussels by new rules far away from citizens. I believe that this is a very necessary direction that we can take by means of an impulse in the Austrian Presidency. And to do this, we want to set an initiative. We see ourselves as an Austrian – and this is what you see in the logo with all the flags of the Member States – of course as a service provider for this Europe, but you can be very sure to set impulses. These are our initiatives, which I would like to convey today, and which, as I believe, are already a big difference from what the opposition has offered to the SPÖ. It is really sad, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ that you have come down so far on European policy issues! [[Abg. Heinzl: Visa Scandal!]] I believe that this is not a good initiative for Austria. [[Abg. Heinzl: Where does the visa scandal take place?]] – Your contribution is still out! If your European spokesperson Caspar To say to the “Salzburger Nachrichten” that we do not have a European political task, this is a revelation for you, which can no longer be suppressed. I feel sad and sorry! [[Abg. Heinzl: Poor speech!]] I hope that some of you from the SPÖ – such as Mr Schieder – may still be driving around the row, because it cannot be that when Austria takes the lead in Europe, the SPÖ will be European in this way!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e1692	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. He's got a speech time of 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e1729	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! The EU Commission's legislative programme is quite interesting – and is to be described as committed. The areas of prosperity, jobs, solidarity, security and Europe as partners in the world are certainly important areas in which the European Union, as a genuine political Union and community, is also involved. The question is only always: What is hidden behind the headings and initiatives that are being put forward? The Commission itself acknowledges some of the really essential issues, such as, from the current problematic situation – many say quite rightly: from this crisis situation – the European Union, there is no answer. For example, one of these questions is how the European Constitution should continue. As the Commission regrets only the failure of the referendums in this year, it is hoped that a discussion process will continue at national level and initiatives will be launched to find the answers to these open questions. But, unfortunately, we do not hear that from the EU Commission. They ordered a rethinking break. Usually, it is assumed that a rethinking can be useful to think about. But here one has the feeling that one has stopped thinking, although it is really a very essential question, how to focus this European Union on the enlargement already done by ten new Member States. We all assumed that a European Constitution with the reorganisation of the structures is a prerequisite for this enlargement. – Now we have enlargement, with many still open questions, but the basic requirements are not even discussed in approaches. We have discussed here in the House in the context of a survey with experts that there is a wealth of problem analyses, but for a long time no solution to how we can put this new constitution into effect. It is not going to happen, as some consider, that you simply change a little bit and then take another popular vote in France and Holland, because: What then would have happened in the other countries which, like Austria or others, have already ratified this, even with popular voting? There's nothing to change. Another initiative is to “file” and put into force some points, such as the catalogue of human rights, to put some other structural issues into effect, but that is also half a thing. In fact, one has lost a three-quarters of a year to discuss solutions. The Austrian Presidency will have to deal with this issue. Second point: financing. Nor does this find a broad space in this legislative programme. The new proposals of the British Presidency have already been addressed. – In addition to this, our position: I believe it is important that we as net payers maintain that it must be the negotiating goal for the Austrian Federal Government to no longer accept additional burdens for Austria – and that the contribution of Austria must remain at the previous level, at least as a negotiating goal. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen, this legislative programme finally includes – and this is to be seen positively – an initiative towards more research, development and promotion of high technology, in the form of the 7. The framework programme for research and development is supported, but one also wants to invest more in these programmes from the European level. So far, research and development has been primarily a national matter. I also believe that one of the problems relating to the reputation for more citizens in Europe is that only technical terms are discussed. There is the Lisbon process, there is Maastricht, there is Nice, there are the convergence criteria. – How should a citizen in Europe get a real relationship to this idea also a political Union if bureaucrats, technocrats and politicians are very, very good, if they only discuss in these specialist expressions, instead of really addressing the problems and trying to develop solutions. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] We also need, if we are to deal with the proximity of citizens, to see that there is, for example, the Institute of European People's Parties on important issues of the European Union. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Constitution!]] Of course! That was also a reason for this failure on the subject of the Constitution, because it was believed that this Constitution can also be decreed from above, and that citizens will already follow what has been decreed. – Although this Constitution is good, there is a widespread distrust of the population in certain initiatives of the European Union. The need for important initiatives to be put to the vote would, I believe, lead to greater anchorage and consideration of the opinion of the people of Europe. Of course, the legislative programme also includes the next enlargement steps. We will also have to deal with Bulgaria, Romania. This is an important area for Austria, because Austria is the largest investor in these two countries, but it will also have to be taken into account: Are the criteria of both countries fulfilled – there are still some open questions – and: Is the European Union now on a way to make these additional enlargements possible? The same is true of Croatia, but we are very glad that these accession talks have been started. It is somewhat different in Turkey, where one has once again taken this simple path, namely to conduct accession negotiations for 15, 20 years – instead of entering into a truly meaningful partnership with Turkey and having said quite openly and honestly: Neither Turkey nor the European Union will be able to take this enlargement step in the foreseeable future – we are going into close bilateral cooperation, a tailor-made partnership that would be correct and important for both sides. I expect the European Union, especially when it comes to human rights, to have a clearer word, including the Commission, ladies and gentlemen. It cannot be said that one conducts accession negotiations with a country in which one is discussed, just as it has been in Austria, to change the national anthem, to be threatened with five or ten years of imprisonment, because “turk will be violated”; in which journalists are thrown into prison because they have “wrongly reported”; in which there are still murders of women only because they do not marry the man whom the family council has “ordered”. These are not the human rights standards that we imagine for a common Europe, and this must also be clearly expressed by the European Union. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Of course, there must also be special vigilance in their own ranks. And if the CIA flights are discussed here, we don't need to discuss what the federal army has done wrong. The German army has done it right, because only because these processes are controlled offensively and attentively in the context of airspace surveillance have become known at all through Austrian airspace. But it is not about it, but it is about me that the European Union should not be silent in this matter, even if there are suspicions – there is no confirmation yet, but suspicions – that human rights have been violated by these prisoners transports. If it is true that human rights have been violated and tortured in the Member States of the European Union, which has been questioned with unfair means, then the European Union must act, even if it is a member country of the Union. [[General condolences.]] I believe that, in this sense, the common foreign and security policy must also be an important programme of the Commission. It all sounds very good what was proposed there, but there are still too few initiatives, too few initiatives that go in the direction of wanting to be a counterpart – not an opponent, but a counterpart – to be a complement to the United States, to be involved in the important crisis spots, for example in the Middle East, or more strongly in various crisis spots in Asia or Africa. This does not mean that we intervene militaryly everywhere, but that we are also making it clear by means of an offensive development cooperation, by political means and, if necessary, by means of military means, of course, that the principles we have given ourselves – human rights, freedom, the right of self-determination of the peoples – are values that apply all over the world, and that a superpower in the world cannot decide where and why they intervene. That too would be an important, global task for the European Union, and Austria could also set up initiatives there. But you also have to look away from your own plate edge and from national discussions. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] I'm coming to the end, ladies and gentlemen. The Commission programme sounds ambitious, but what really stands behind it, we will see first. Austria has the power to support and also set milestones during its presidency. I assume and am sure that the Austrian Federal Government will take this into consideration and show that a small country in Europe can also be an important factor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e1836	Mr Van der Bellen has now been speaking. 7 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e1858	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact that the European Union is in crisis, in a deep malaise, has not been visible for months and is indisputable. [[Abg. Neudeck: Who? The Greens?]] But let me say one thing: As we do today, we will often have the opportunity to discuss what is unfortunately not happening in the European Union, what should happen, what happens, but not in our sense – a key word of university entry at Austrian universities. All of this is right and important, but if the European Union did not exist, then it would have to be reinvented. That's my deep conviction! [[General condolences.]] The transnational problems, the transnational political problems that cannot be solved within national borders – whether this is a small state like Austria or a large one like Germany – have been so overcome: whether this is economic policy, whether it be environmental policy, energy policy or not. We need European cooperation on all these issues. And the European Union is the very institution within which we can and must commit ourselves. So all this criticism, which will come from me now, does not refer to Austria, as a right-wing populist party in Austria believes, leaving the EU, that the EU should not be at all, but quite the contrary: If it didn't exist, we'd have to invent her. However, for months this important European institution has had a kind of leadership vacuum, a lack of “political leadership”, especially – but not only – among the great nations. France is exclusively concerned with itself, and this will remain so until the presidential elections. Germany – behind it a question mark. As long as the economic situation does not improve, Federal Chancellor Merkel will be hard on himself, but I hope that this will work well. Italy with the Berlusconi government: indisputable! Years ago, unfortunately, the “economist” made an important title story, which said: “Berlusconi unfit to rule”, i.e. inappropriate for governing – for reasons I don’t want to repeat here now. What about the UK? – Tony Blair gave a very good speech in the European Parliament at the end of June. We made fun of it in the green club and said the speech was good; it has only one problem: Tony Blair held her! Since when are the British – good friends otherwise, yes – friends of European integration? And Tony Blair, the British Presidency, unfortunately has been in the presidency for the last five and a half months – unfortunately! – demonstrated that these prejudices, these concerns, were correct. In important points, the British Presidency has things – I would not say: sleep or sluggish, but with intention. With intent! Tony Blair isn't anyone. Blair is one of the most intelligent politicians there are. And if he behaves as passively as he has behaved, this has happened with intention: There is no intention of overcoming the Commission's entire legislative programme, namely the internal decision-making capacity, the functioning of the Union – the Constitutional Treaty keyword – and, secondly, the finances. What is the best legislative programme of the Commission or its support by the Austrian Presidency if the financial base is missing? And what Tony Blair has presented is, in several respects, embarrassing for the European idea: firstly, as regards the scale of the European budget and secondly, its structure. That's where I have to say: Austria's policy has not emerged, at least in the first place, as far as the scale of the finances is concerned. Let us explain to our citizens what this is about. We are talking about amounts in the order of 1 percent of the economic power of a country, the gross domestic product, in the order of 1 percent! Throughout Europe, there are hundreds ofths of percentage points in this area. In Austria, whether you are looking at it from the revenue or from the expenditure side, the government rate is about 45 percent. For Europe as a whole, we are talking about a 45th of this amount. And there it is not possible to reach an agreement?! – That is absurd, completely absurd, embarrassing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Commission President Barroso is perfectly right when he says: What Blair has proposed there is good for a mini-Europe, but nothing else! . But that is exactly what the British Presidency seems to want. But before we continue to philosophise that Tony Blair and the British Presidency are facing a great blamage as far as European policy is concerned, we must already see that Austria is approaching such a blamage in an important point, and I am now referring to our Minister and Vice-Cancellor for Mentalists. This is not just about the risks of accidents – also, of course. And the first serious accident, possibly with death succession – guard God! – will have to be credited to the vice chancellor. [[Abg. Hornek: What about the Greens in Germany? They also drive 180!]] That's bad enough. But, ladies and gentlemen: Tempo 160 km/h, this is also a European question. Throughout Europe, with the exception of Germany, there are speed limits on land roads and motorways, which reach at most the extent of Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: There are half as many accidents there as we do!]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is a hypocrisy!]] In Germany there are exceptions to certain sections of the motorway, yes. It has been shown that emissions, in particular CO2, but also nitrogen oxides and others, increase significantly as the rate increases above 130 km/h. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] – No, every driver knows that the fuel consumption or diesel consumption increases if you drive an average of 150 km/h instead of 120 km/h on average! And this, of course, also increases emissions. This is a European question, ladies and gentlemen. [[We welcome the Greens and Dr. Gusenbauer and Reheis.]] Austria has also committed itself to comply with the Kyoto Protocol. Austria should also be interested that the glaciers do not melt as fast as they melt anyway. Austria should also be interested in the fact that climate change does not occur at least as quickly as it is currently taking place. And this has something to do with emissions in transport. Of course not with this mini section in Carinthia, with this 10 km or what that is... – 12 km, from me – on which speed is tested 160 km/h and the drivers save about 51 seconds on this route. [[Vice Chancellor Gorbach: 12 km!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: 13 seconds!]] -13 seconds? So something between two seconds and 40 seconds. [[Abg. Eder: Nothing! That's ridiculous!]] The environmental problem and, in particular, the precautionary nature of climate policy are being pushed ad absurdly in this way! This is spirit driving in a political sense, namely, in the wrong direction, with a very high risk for the others who drive in the right direction! [[Congratulation with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ]] Mr Bartenstein, you too are concerned, they are indirectly affected. [[Abg. Eder: Exactly!]] I should like to remind you that, for example, the situation in the Unterinntal already exists, for example, that business settlements, industry, industry, are difficult or are banned, because emissions from transport are so high. [[Abg. May. Hakl: That's why we're making a new...!]] It should be in your interest as Minister of Industry to slow down the Vice-Chairman in the literal sense, because the CO2 emissions, the greenhouse gas emissions that the Vice-Cancellor promotes, operates and allows, you, Mr Bartenstein, and so that all of us in the field of industrial policy will fall on the head! I do not understand that the industry, which has already made great efforts in this area, is now to be further developed, just because we have a vice-ganner who is stifling on motorways at a pace of 160 km/h. This is also economic nonsense – quite apart from the environmental drama! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] Finally, as part of the Commission's legislative programme, external policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Cap.]] – I didn’t stop the clock for ten minutes, Mr Cap.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2058	The limit on speaking time is voluntary 7 minutes; by law 10 minutes. Mr Van der Bellen has 9 minutes 24 seconds, and I will give him the 20 seconds I have now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2074	Very kind, Mr President. – The Austrian Presidency faces a very difficult problem, which is the question of the relationship with the United States of America. It is absolutely unacceptable and unacceptable that a secret service – whatever country, but also that of the USA – is kidnaps and abducts European citizens on European soil on foreign territories – wherever it is: in foreign prisons suspected of torture. – Publicly expressed: Where are we? [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Even from the United States, with which Europe has a long friendly tradition of commitment, it is not possible to offer and fall into any circumstances! - Thank you. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2124	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). His speaking time is also 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2145	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Estimated colleagues on the government bank! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is no doubt that our Federal Chancellor Schüssel will be with President Bush tomorrow morning in Washington and has already announced that he will discuss important issues with President Bush. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Which one?]] On the other hand: Dear Professor Van der Bellen, about speed 160 km/h, one can be divided, no question at all, but a European question is not that from my point of view. [[Abg. Oillinger: No, there can be no divided opinion! You can only have one opinion!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig-Piesczek: Kyoto!]] They have given an indirect answer when you pointed out that things have been different in Germany for years – and I am not aware of the fact that the red-green government of Germany would have taken a decisive initiative against free travel on Germany's motorways in its seven years of government responsibility. So, look at that with your German party friends! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Michael Spindelegger – by the way, he wears the same presidential pin as the vice-channer, I, of course also the State Secretary, we are proud of it – has pointed out Austria's presidency... – I immediately get some pins out of my office. [[Abg. Arbitrators: The others didn't get it!]] Mr Schieder, you will be personally infected by me if I may hand it over to you. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Arbitrator.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, if that's a failure, we'll go after it this morning. We will “plough” the fund of the Foreign Office with your appropriate approval, Mr Winkler, to equip the ladies and gentlemen here in the house with it. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! We are a service provider to Europe in the next half year, that's what Michael Spindelegger said. In fact, to hold 2 000 EU meetings that sounds like work, that's also a lot of work. We'll do this for the second time. We're going to deliver a professional job. But we will also try something that Ursula Plassnik puts in the foreground again and again: In these six months, we want to make a small contribution to the recovery of European citizens' confidence in this Europe. We want to listen to European citizens a little more than perhaps that has been the case in the Member States in recent years, but also in Brussels. We want to make contributions to this soaring scepticism that is present in Europe. In this regard, your speech, Professor Van der Bellen, was very beneficial in contrast to some other speech. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] One should be and can and must be skeptical of Europe, where there is something to criticize. But we all know: If this Europe does not exist, it would have to be reinvented. – Thank you, Professor, for this wording Van der Bellen. We know that populism deviates very quickly towards anti-European position. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Have we heard today!]] That it is sometimes claimed that this is usually - or time and again - from the right side of the case, even that one hears, not only in Austria. Mr Cap, what I heard from you today was once populism from the left-hand side of Europe. What I find very remarkable is that you have an official two-company theory: Mr Gusenbauer per Europe, Mr Cap Kontra Europa. [[Call the ÖVP:Zickzack!]] They are opposed to the scepticism towards Europe – and Mr Cap is a source of scepticism. You can hold that, even if you used to be a pro-European party. But they're not. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Long, it's been a long time!]] The Social Democracy of Austria has now become a Europe-skeptic party, and Mr Cap has provided the best example here today. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Europe’s priority – and I agree with Dr. Gusenbauer – must be in the coming months and years: Growth and employment. This is also the legislative and work programme of the European Commission, by the way, for the whole of 2006, Dr. Gusenbauer. Growth and jobs are at the forefront; this is clear for more than 19 million unemployed. – I did not understand the number of Mr Vergestnich on Sunday in the ORF as he comes to 32 million, 19 million are bad enough. – The relevance of competitiveness, growth, jobs is now undisputed among European workers and employers. It's got to be worked on. That one can be against a tax race that this position is recognised. However, I do not think so: I think it's a bit of tax competition. I would like to give you an example of why it is very good for Austria that we have entered into this tax competition constructively and responsibly. Mr Eder, who is not very unknown to you, OMC, is committed to Borealis, which is now largely a part of it. According to the management, Borealis, Europe's sixth largest plastic group, has decided to establish its headquarters in Europe not in Scandinavia, not in London, but in Vienna, based on the location and reason, Dr. [[Abg. Eder: In Vienna!]] [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] Gusenbauer and Dr. Cap, the tax advantage that Austria offers. – So, sometimes the tax competition for jobs and location is quite good, also for jobs, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I am very much in favour of Scandinavian politics and I will speak about it in a moment. Federal Chancellor Schüssel has also said – André Sapir, four European social models – that: We feel closer to the Scandinavian model than the Central European. Only if you say, Mr Gusenbauer, that in terms of labour market policy and jobs we should be orienting to the scanners can I not fully understand what you are saying: The Finns have an unemployment rate of 8.1 percent, the Sweden of 6.3 percent – we of 5.2 percent. In the case of youth unemployment: The Finns are 19.3 percent, the Swedish being 16.6 percent – we are 10.4%. – Why we should focus on Scandinavia – Finland and Sweden – you must first explain Austrian workers and citizens, Dr. Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On the other hand, in terms of social security, investment, research and development, I believe, we can and should look at Denmark, Sweden and Finland, including the flexibility of the labour market. I believe that those who demand from Europe and Austria's workers world class in terms of flexibility must also offer them world class in terms of social security. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] – On the whole, we do this, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Silhavy, you know that just as I know it, and for this reason, for example, in our presidency together with the Commission, we want to discuss widely the concept of flexicurity – through safety more flexibility in working life. This seems to me to be a very essential point to finally get away from social security, social achievements always being exchanged against economic power and economic growth. I believe that the measure and this structure and social security that we have developed in Austria are the basis for the competitiveness of our working world, our enterprises, which are so shiny in exports, ladies and gentlemen. It has been said quite correctly: The Lisbon process is something incomprehensible, one of many keywords. – Scheibner said that. – It is no longer and no less than the roadmap for more growth and employment in Europe, which is important, which the Commission standards in its legislative programme and says that 2006 will be a crucial year for the implementation of this plan. Why? – The first five years did not go well. The Commission and European Heads of State and Government have now decided that Member States too must submit and draw up their national reform plans. We have done so, we have discussed this in Parliament – at least briefly. The Spring Summit under Austria's Presidency will ultimately have to decide whether this rebellion will be successful, whether this new Lisbon process will be successful, and we will have a chance to achieve more growth and employment. It would be necessary because there are 19 million unemployed – I have already said it. Professor Sinn, the leading German economist, says: Europe is the end of the world's growth. – That’s how it can and should not stay, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. A statement on financial perspective and budget: We know that budgets are figures of cast policy, and without budgets, nothing goes. . We cannot be satisfied with what Blair has proposed in the field of rural areas, nor can we be satisfied with what the British have proposed in terms of enlargement countries. – We are in solidarity with our friends, not only in the east, but also in the southeastern part of Europe. Nor can we be satisfied with the change that our net payer position would experience, although I say: What the border regions are in this proposal, I would like to say. It is, as has been said, a policy cast in numbers, and when Hubert Gorbach, Liesl Gehrer and all of us say quite clearly: We need that 7. Framework programme for research and development as a basis to secure the future for Europe's citizens in order to create more jobs and growth, this 7 needs to be done. Framework programme also money, it needs the financial framework, it needs the budget. Lisbon is to be met with life as a whole! – A very essential component is the 7. Framework programme for research and development; the implementation and implementation of the internal market for services and progress towards working time flexibility are also essential. We are discussing this tomorrow under the British Presidency. - We'll see if we get a result. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Social security as a basis for the competitiveness of this Europe, greater security in order to achieve more flexibility in working life, the European model of life: How do we understand that? What don't we want? - We always knew that. What do we want? – Pretty slowly crystallizes that out. A focus of our European policy – I assume, Mr Winkler, State Secretary, will continue to address it – is heading south-eastern Europe. This is a very important focus and not only has something to do with enlargement. Austria's Presidency will deal with this part of Europe, this important part of Europe, Mr President. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] – I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2359	I have caused us to get these Europe signs that reflect this symbol right away. And I hope to be able to distribute this emblem during the European session. Mr Arbitrator, you are speaking. 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2383	Mr President. I do not want to thank myself for that, because it is actually just a reparation. One group was preferred and the other was disadvantaged. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Vice-Chancellor has in his contribution... – thank you very much! – spoke mainly about the Austrian Presidency. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein presents the said badge to the speaker]] This then resulted in the appeal to understand this presidency together, across the party borders. Other Members – from the ÖVP – said that SPÖ was not ready here. A few days ago, the SPÖ delegation in the European Parliament had its programme “A social agenda for Europe” – and, by the way, to the Federal Chancellor – is presented, and it says quite clearly: "If the European Union were to find a way out of the crisis, it would be necessary to set the course at the latest. The economic and social situation of European citizens needs to be substantially improved. The same applies to the functioning of the Union. Both areas – economic and social reform and constitutional process – must be the main focus of the Austrian Presidency.” Then there are a lot of concrete proposals. And the end – I quote –: "If the Austrian Presidency is to become an initiative here, it will also have the support of our SPÖ MEPs in the European Parliament," says this document. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But not in the Austrian National Council!]] That's what you're wrong with, my colleague. I do not think that the question between the political groups as far as the Presidency is concerned will be: Who is more for Europe in words? because these are only linguistic games. [[Abg. Dr. Spindelegger: After! Come on! Skepticism in the Heart!]] The question will not even be so much, although it will also play a role: Is this presidency being used internally in elections or not? I think the crucial question will not even be that, of course, an opposition is interested in increasing the rate of success so that one can then see what really has been achieved and of course a government is interested in putting them on very low and non-binding, so that everything that has been achieved is sold as success. – No, I think the crucial question will be that of the social question. The EU Presidency of Austria will succeed if it becomes an initiative on these issues, and it will essentially stand in contrast to itself as an Austrian government, for as such it does not make the policy it would have to represent as a presidency for Europe as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This will be the big break in Austria in the next half year! [[Abg. Scheibner: Why do you know that now?]] – Because it already shows up because it already shows up in detail. A detail of how little things are used. [[Abg. Scheibner: Here we are very excited!]] Good thing you remember me so that I can give an example to all listeners and also to you. Mr Bartenstein – and this does not fit in with the legislative programme – says that Mr Vergestnitsch had spoken on television of 32 million unemployed, although it was only 19 million, and he asks him where he had this. You know very well: ==References== It was made by Commissioner Špidla in London on 9 October. Špidla then spoke of the 19 million unemployed and 13 million jobseekers, who are not formally registered as unemployed. 19 plus 13 is 32. And who was still present at exactly the same meeting that Mr Verzellnitsch had heard? – Minister Bartenstein personally! But here he asks how this has been done by Mr Vergebnitsch. This is a small example of how politics is sometimes made here as a whole. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But now to the legislative programme and to the points that move me particularly and which I have to deal with. Foreign policy: My criticism is that on these points, too, the weakness of the Commission itself in its programme shows that there are no clear projects on the foreign policy issues and that documents often do not refer to burning issues. A few examples. European Neighbourhood Policy: It is generally mentioned as there is no financial definition, since the criteria are not defined, since the countries are not checked, because they are selected very differently. Something would have to happen. Under the Austrian Presidency, this is not likely to be done because, of course, during the half-year of its presidency, one does not want to act against the Commissioner who comes from Austria. Balkan Policy: There are good proposals for individual areas. However, a concept for the Balkans itself, namely the turning of the EU instruments operating in the wrong direction, in order to no longer create differences but more compensation, is not included. China: A new EU-China policy – which is not about the WTO question – is announced cryptically for the next five years, without any detail in it. America has already rightly been mentioned by many speakers. The question of America is not about what is very important in other areas. It is important in all relations to export the European model of human rights and to ensure that they are respected around the world. – This is, however, excluded in relation to relations with the USA. And my fear is that although Austria wants to be active on these issues, there will also be a mental reservation, which is too clear to say, because Bush's visit during the Austrian Presidency is not to be blamed. These are, as I believe, some examples of how weak the legislative programme is, how necessary Parliamentary debates are – and how necessary they are now, because they will be during your presidency. [[Abg. May. Molterer: How weak the cast farmer is!]] You probably do not want to lead them because you are afraid that parliamentary debates on these individual areas could show the contrast between the Austrian attitude, which would be necessary, and the Austrian role during the Presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2514	The next speaker is Mr Dr Fassleven. Its speaking time is 6 minutes; the legal speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2535	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! Austria is taking over the Presidency in the European Union at a stage that is truly not easy. Not only has the Constitutional Treaty failed in two countries – France and the Netherlands – but the budgetary negotiations in Luxembourg have also failed, and we are now at the end of the British Presidency, which has disappointed many of the high expectations. We are therefore undoubtedly at a stage where, on the one hand, we must make every effort to deal with the Europe project as a whole, and on the other hand, we must also take very concrete measures to further Europe. I therefore believe that the motto that our Foreign Minister has expressed is that it is a question of bringing Europe back to life, of restoring confidence, as Minister Bartenstein has said, absolutely right. This is the basis for the fact that we can go on again, that we are now in such a difficult phase, where many have already lost faith in the future of the continent, starting and taking targeted new measures. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If I look at what the Austrian Federal Government has done for this phase of the Presidency, I think that we are absolutely right in far-reaching areas. Undisputed is: For Austria, growth and employment have absolute priority. We want people to work with us, that's the most important thing. For this reason, the Federal Chancellor has also put the so-called Lisbon Strategy at the centre of his reflections on the strategy for growth, employment and prosperity in Europe. I therefore think this is important because, of course, the belief of the people, the citizens will only arise, if indeed there are opportunities for work, for self-realization, if you feel it goes upward. In contrast to the Social Democrats, I do not take the view that from the outset there should be no competition in Europe, for example in the tax field, but quite the contrary: Of course, the focus must be on research, development and training. This is our main rail. But we're not going to be successful with this alone. We are on the one hand competing with the cheap producing countries in East Asia and on the other hand with a highly developed economy like that in America. We must act after both sides if we want to be successful. And we will therefore have to do everything we can to find appropriate economic systems that are suitable for our highly developed standard. We will not succeed with cheap methods alone. On the other hand, we must also ask ourselves where our disadvantage lies about against America, what we must do there. I also believe that it is right to invest, for example, in the area of marketing, that it is important to invest in the settlement of international companies in Europe. It is absolutely right that we should not say from the outset that there must be no tax competition. Let us be glad when companies, before they settle somewhere in the Middle East or in East Asia, perhaps go to Slovakia or Hungary and thus also allow them to reduce the unemployment rate there – and thus also give us the opportunity to export and sell something more there! Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that, for example, the much flattered service directive from the approach has undoubtedly been an absolutely failed attempt by the EU Commission, but that it is certainly correct and necessary to strengthen the services sector in Europe too, to create a European market in order to strengthen the internal market in this area. [[Abg. Silhavy: But Mr Bartenstein has always seen it differently!]] But Europe is more than the economy. And I would also like to mention the area of security very briefly, because it seems so important to me. Let's just think about it: It is not only about combating terrorism – it must be done at the root, in the Middle East and in other regions of the world – it is not only about combating crime – we can only do this together, all European states together – but it is undoubtedly also about simply creating security for people at all, stability of society! I will therefore, as I have already announced, highlight the issue of the European social and social model within the framework of COSAC, including at the parliamentary event of this House, where we are chairing. We are in favour of discussing what Europe should look like, how our social systems are going to develop – and we will make this accessible accordingly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I would like to make an appeal to the Social Democratic colleagues. What One wrote in the “Salzburger Nachrichten”, and what I heard today from Gusenbauer and Cap, actually upset me. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Please?]] If we act in this way at the beginning of the presidency and if the whole thing goes out into a bad party, thank you! – We will only be stronger if we tackle it together! I call on you from the SPÖ to join us. Try to be a state-bearing party for at least half a year! The citizens of Austria will thank you!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2605	The next speaker was Mr Bösch. Requested time: 5 minutes, legal speaking time: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2627	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have introduced these European days in the Austrian National Council with a view to the in-force step of the new EU Constitution, because we could have agreed with the Commission's legislative programme in the new EU Constitution. That is not the case, however! That is why, at such meetings, we MEPs are forced to address fundamental issues of the European Union and address them to the important recipients of us, namely the members of the Federal Government, because they represent the Republic in the EU's key bodies, namely in the Councils. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we Members must be able to address fundamental issues of European policy in this short speaking time available to us. For us, I can tell you that we believe that European policy must change in principle. [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Gusenbauer said “change of course”!]] We need a turning point in European policy. And some members of the Federal Government have stated in their speech that they will endeavour to bring the European Union closer to people. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as we have to ‘draw closer’ the policies of the European Union, we are on the wrong path! The European Union must make a good policy that is recognised and respected by the people of the European Union. This is the secret to a European policy! And because our Republic will hold the Presidency in the Union in the next half-year, it is also right that we MEPs here in the National Council address important issues that appear to us to be important. Mein Ladies and gentlemen, the EU Constitution has failed! We do not need to give in to illusions: A constitution in which a large member country, like the Republic of France, does not participate, will not enter into force! That is to say, in the constitutional question, back to the start and define new negotiations and new principles. That is why it is important that we also become a Presidency in the next half-year of the Constitution and declare to the people of the European Union that we are Austria against a centralist EU constitution, that we are still in favour of the Member States being the crucial levels in the future Union. Ladies and gentlemen, that will be very crucial! In principle, we will also have to address the question of financing in the Presidency. And we will also have to find clear words there, because it cannot be said that a presidency such as the current British, only its own interests – some previous speakers have correctly recognized it – is actually lagging behind European policy and does not intend to really seek a common level in order to find a solution for all the other Member States. Ladies and gentlemen, during our presidency, we must also raise the issue of enlargement. And we also need to look at the closeness of the citizen there and to be aware that the citizens of Europe do not understand when talking about an unlimited enlargement of the European Union. And no one understands that the Union is beginning accession negotiations with the Republic of Turkey. No one in the European Union – except a few political philosophers who argue this – understands that the Union should be extended in this irrational way. What an extension is about, it can only be called: We must strengthen the previously arronded territory of the European Union and try there to help those legal assets that are in force in the European Union win. Another point is the fight against globalisation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an essential point with regard to the credibility of European policy. Globalisation brings many disadvantages in important areas, and it is therefore important to address important areas of concern to many people at European level – and not just small exotic issues that only few address. One important issue, all of which is economic and employment. The European Union must also set up mechanisms in these areas in order to ensure that the citizens of Europe recognise that the Union represents its interests, precisely within the framework of all these difficult conditions that arise through globalisation. Ladies and gentlemen, in principle it will also be a matter of turning Europe off from the dangers of modern terrorism. We have to use those mechanisms here so that the peoples of Europe can also enjoy their prosperity so that they can live, work and shape the future in safety. I can therefore say, from a free point of view, that: We believe that European policy must change in principle. And the Austrian Presidency is an opportunity to initiate this change. We advocate that we go away from an idealised, undifferentiated European policy – towards a policy with more sense of home. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2673	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Your preferred speaking time is 7 minutes; the legal person: 10 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2695	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen also on the gallery and in front of the TV screens! The European Commission's work programme for the next six months has a very ambitious title, which can be very motivating in itself. It means: release Europe's entire potential. This does not sound bad in itself, especially when it comes to the issues of securing prosperity, the question of solidarity both within the European Union and with other parts of the world, security and the role of Europe in the world, including the question of a European peace policy. - That sounds wonderful. The problem, however, is that in recent years and especially in the last half and three quarters of the year with the constitutional debate, this enthusiasm for this European project, which still existed in Austria at least at the time of accession, has simply got rid of people last year. And that has reasons. Why did this happen? – Some of the reasons are very much related to what the European Commission says, for example. Some of the wrong ways are going. For example, the Commission is far too friendly as regards the authorisation of genetically modified organisms, whereas many European countries – in this case also Austria – are. Or the massive expansion of nuclear energy. These are things that the European Commission is very well proposing and where I can understand that many people say, especially in Austria, no: So the ones in Brussels, we don't want them! The big but is: They do not do this on their own, and they are not sitting there somewhere in Brussels or far away on another planet, but in the European Council, national governments sit inside and decide exactly these things and are, of course, responsible for them if the EURATOM Treaty is further expanded and more money is spent and more in the development of nuclear energy and is not invested in renewable energies. However, the problem lies in that you come back from our federal government of these decisions in Brussels and say: Oh, those in Brussels are guilty, we have fought like the lions – how often we have heard that – fought like the lions, but, unfortunately, we have not done it! This is one of the main reasons for this EU scepticism, which exists in the European Union, also in Austria, and where it is necessary for the Austrian Presidency to consider and say: How do we do this differently? As a national government, how do we intend to say that everything that comes from Brussels is bad to resist something? It is very likely that it is necessary – for example, in the field of “solidarity” and “European social model” – to make proposals and address these areas, to give people answers to their growing concerns, especially in times of globalisation, and to work for a European social union that tax dumping – this neo-liberal model: the less taxes, the better – finally has an end. And what are you doing? – You just find, that's all right! Minister Bartenstein, compete, compete, that is to say, businesses, but not the states! States are in favour of levying taxes in order to introduce social measures for people, measures in the fields of education, health et cetera. Competition is something for businesses, but not for the states! So, not a tax dumping, but an initiative by the Austrian Presidency for Tax Harmonisation at EU level! [[Interference by Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein]] [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Bartenstein has used a very significant word to hear from the members of the government – and also from the ÖVP – of the public: It was about the “European model of life”, or “European model of society” is sometimes said. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Yes!]] – I think it is very interesting that there is no longer any talk about the European social model. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This belongs to the life model!]] “Life Model” – that sounds very non-binding. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's more!]] It doesn't sound like you're going here and saying yes, it's important to us that the gap between the poor and the rich remains as low as possible! [[Abg. Scheibner: Human rights are there too, Mrs Colleague! You're not gonna be against that, are you?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: There are women's rights there too!]] Yes, it is important to us that people have a life-saving income and that there is a social network that takes it up! [[Abg. Scheibner: The environment is there too!]] “Life Model”, that sounds too non-binding to me, and I see there a danger that this neo-liberal trend you have will come in there. [[Abg. Scheibner: You can't do it at all!]] [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Let me come to the chapter on foreign policy. – South-East Europe: I do not see any initiatives by the Federal Government in the White Paper either. That's what I'm doing, like my colleague. Where is an initiative to ensure uniform funding for the countries of south-eastern Europe – and not for the candidate countries Croatia and probably soon Macedonia the Pre-Accession Fund, i.e. the funding before accession – which is very high – and the countries between them, do they get nothing or almost nothing? – This gap is coming up, and it would be fatal for a peace project in South-East Europe! I can't see any initiative from you here. This would be necessary if the young people were to start believing in this European idea and not fall home from nationalist ideas. Do you know what else would be necessary for that? – An Austrian initiative “Visa quotas”, especially for young people from the countries of south-eastern Europe – this would not create political responsibility for the visa scandal, but there would be opportunities for people there; also an initiative by the Austrian Presidency for Visa Freedom for the states of former Yugoslavia, because by 1990/91, this Europe could not travel now. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] On human rights, some of my previous speakers – Van der Bellen, Arbitrators and others – have already said something. I clearly and clearly expect the Austrian Presidency and the Federal Chancellor today in Washington – last week I would have expected this to happen in Moscow – to have the courage to condemn human rights violations, to say as to Russia [[Abg. Neugebauer: He did that!]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: That was a topic!]] No muzzle for civil society! No way towards dictatorship! The Chechen conflict does not belong to heated but solved! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Were you there?]] I expect not only in the four-eye conversation, but also in the public clear words. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That must not be true!]] It is only in this way that Austria makes us believe that these human rights are important to us and that External and external economic policy must have human rights on a central issue. [[Abg. May. Molterer:... will tremble in front of you, Mrs. Lunacek! – That must not be true!]] Only then will the EU be credible again, and only then will there be a credible Austrian EU Presidency.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2932	Mr Winkler is now speaking. His speaking time is also 10 minutes. – Mr State Secretary, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e2953	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! This European Commission, like any other Commission before it, has set itself strategic objectives at the time of its accession, and these objectives – prosperity, solidarity, security, Europe as a reliable partner in the world – remain, as expressed in the 2006 concrete programme, the valid objectives that the Commission will have to deal with as well as the Council and the European Parliament. There is no doubt – and this has been said several times in the debate here – that 2005, which is about to end, has not been a good year for the European Union in many respects. However, we do not want to pour out the child with the bath and forget that there has been some important progress, good decisions. For example, I mention the decision to double the aid for the fight against poverty in the world. This year, the European Union has taken on this responsibility, which, I believe, is very important. In fact, however, there have undoubtedly been setbacks with the two negative referenda in France and the Netherlands and also with the decline in confidence that the European population as a whole has in the European Union. And in fact, it is also necessary for us to develop real, realistic, concrete strategies to regain this lost trust. I can only agree with Mr Cap here – and it is also not right how the Federal Chancellor was mistakenly quoted here, according to which it is supposed to have been done only with an explanation – I am entirely of this opinion and the Federal Chancellor is of the opinion that it is not only about communicating, explaining to the citizens, and then they will already understand it, but it is about the European Union setting up acts, making a policy that brings people something and making people aware that there is a European added value. That is exactly what the Austrian Presidency intends to do, like every presidency, in a very concrete way, in a European policy for people. [[In the case of the ÖVP, the Freeman as well as the Abg. Arbitrator.]] The President of the Commission too, I believe, has reached the right conclusion from this malaise that is present in Europe vis-à-vis the European Union today, and has said that the Union must go back to the people again. A subject which the British Presidency has also begun to debate after initial hesitation is also the question of how we discuss with people how we listen to people. The question of the strategy, which has become known as “Communication Europe”, is something that, I believe, is important for the recovery of this lost trust. This is particularly important – as in all areas; I think it must be stressed again and again – that it is also about the Commission's efforts and the Council's efforts, i.e. the governments, and the European Parliament's efforts, going hand in hand. We must always bear in mind that there are very precise divisions of competence and that only in the narrowening of these tasks, which the individual institutions have, can something be done for Europe. As it has been said here that one or the other part of the Commission's programme is not or is only sparsely contained: Of course, it must also be remembered that in many areas there is a responsibility of governments and that only in a cooperation with the Commission and the European Parliament can further progress be made. The impulses that have to go out for Europe can certainly not only come from a single institution, nor from a single state alone, but only from the interaction of all can make concrete progress. Commissioner Fischler has once said quite rightly that the Union needs, above all, a "plan K", and this "plan K" is the plan to put concrete action into practice. Ladies and gentlemen, on the various issues, on the headings that the Commission has made: 2006 is undoubtedly a crucial year for increasing Europe's competitiveness. The Lisbon strategy has been addressed several times, the changeover to the Lisbon strategy and the responsibility of national governments. Austria will be able to carry out the first evaluation of these national plans at the March summit and to provide impetus for the future. A matter that has been raised here and which I think is very important is the question of security. I believe that there are large parts of the population, not just Austrian, agree that this is one of those areas where we are more and no less Europe, because more Europe is more cooperation and brings to the individual citizens clearly something as far as their own security needs are concerned. The Austrian Presidency will certainly focus on this, including in the implementation of the Hague Programme. It has also been a matter of foreign policy, and of course it should also be borne in mind, Mr Arbitrary, that the main responsibility for the common foreign policy lies with the governments. There is a substantial cooperation with the Commission, and I can assure quite specifically that the fact that the Commissioner for Foreign Affairs is an Austrian does not have a negative impact, but rather a very positive one, because we are already working very closely with Commissioner Ferrero and her office, and it is simply that the Commissioner who comes from his own country is working more closely than perhaps with others. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] The European Neighbourhood Policy, which has already been mentioned, will also provide a decisive impetus. Austria is called upon to carry out the evaluations of the national plans for Ukraine and Moldova, and in many respects these two countries are particularly important for Europe. The European Union is also and above all a community of values. This is not a hollow phrase, but it is, as I believe, a question of whether the countries of the European Union are the avant-garde of human rights and the protection of human rights around the world. Austria has a long tradition of this commitment to human rights, and it will continue to communicate the values, the distribution of values, the export of these values, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, and will continue to work to ensure that these values are expressed against everyone – I believe, there can be no difference, whether the countries of Asia or the countries of Latin America – over and over again. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: An opinion on the visa affair would also be appropriate!]] In particular, Austria, under its presidency, will organise the great American summit in Vienna, where human rights will play a very important and central role, but also, of course, towards our partners on the other side of the Atlantic, towards the United States. There can be no doubt at all that the European Union is firmly anchored on the ground of human rights. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament has adopted a number of amendments to the Treaty establishing the European Economic Community, including those tabled by the European Parliament and the Council. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen, the question of subsidiarity has already been mentioned, and Mr Vice-Chancellor has referred to it. This is indeed a very important issue. The Commission has announced further progress in this programme to improve legislation. I believe that we can only welcome and support this. There is also an opportunity to bring the European Union closer to people. The Austrian Presidency is undoubtedly a major challenge for all. [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: And the visa affair...!]] I think it is a major concern of Austria as a whole that this presidency in Europe is moving a little further and strengthening the confidence of citizens in the European Union, in the European project again. To do this, we want to work with you all. To this end, we want to work with the national Parliament as much as we do with the European Parliament. I believe that cooperation with the European Parliament is not only important in the specific legislative programmes that are included in this programme – in most cases a codecision procedure is envisaged – and it will be one of the difficult, time-consuming, complex but, I believe, worthwhile tasks for the Austrian Presidency to work closely with the European Parliament. I can invite all of you to participate in this Austrian Presidency. We are doing this in the interests of our country, and I believe that if we have done something further at the end of the Austrian Presidency, it is good for all of us. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3044	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. 5 minutes' speaking time; 10 minutes remaining speaking time of the political group. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3065	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we are talking about the 2006 legislative programme – without any knowledge of how the financial perspective is going to work out now, without solving the open institutional questions, says Constitution; these problems have already been addressed. And in fact, the strategic objectives set here sound very good, but in reality they are about implementation. It's about having a liability. Prosperity, implementation of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Employment: Ladies and gentlemen! You know very well that the mid-term balance was negative, so there was also a change in the whole of the Lisbon strategy. And why was she negative? – Because simply the national measures did not take place or were too few. Unfortunately, Austria has also contributed to this, with its policy, because in Austria, under your policy, Minister Bartenstein, we have received record unemployment under Chancellor Schüssel. And that is exactly the opposite of what the Lisbon strategy wants! Mr Bartenstein, in your speech today, you have also mentioned the flexibility of the workers. Yesterday, exactly the opposite was decided in this House: Binding clauses for workers through competition clauses and training repayments. They are making a national policy that is talking exactly against what you want at EU level and say here. Mr Federal Minister, there is no growth impulses at all in budgetary policy. Where has domestic demand been stimulated by your policy? [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is the legislative programme now!]] Of course, it is the legislative programme, but the federal governments have to present in the national action plans how they want to follow and implement the Lisbon strategy. That is why we cannot separate this, Mr Molterer. You should be aware of this when you sit here – I hope so. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Yes, Mrs. Oberlehrer!]] [[Abg. Grillic: Mrs. High School Teacher!]] This is precisely what these national action plans are all about. These national action plans, too, should somehow be measurable – for what else would they make sense if we could not understand them and could not quantify and qualify how they really go towards Lisbon objectives? Solidarity is also a priority of the 2006 legislative programme. – Minister of State! You said you were for tax competition, for country competition, for state competition. [[Federal Minister Dr Bartenstein:..., yes!]] I think that's the wrong way. Lisbon also has a better quality job base! Finally, however, tax dumping leads to wage dumping and to pressure against this quality of work. That is why tax dumping is in fact not the right way! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: ‘Tax dumping’?- Oh, my God!]] – Of course it is, Mr. Federal Minister! The tax policy – “tax” has to do with “lenks” – is also about the question: Do I still want to shape politics, or do I want to lean back and leave everything to free competition? – This is not our strategy, Mr Minister! [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Social justice, cohesion and quality of life are the priorities of solidarity. Pension reduction programmes will not strengthen people's confidence in the EU and in social systems. There is a dramatic increase in unemployment, including with us, and there again we have national action plans, namely against poverty and social exclusion. We have the same problem again: We have beautiful action plans, unqualifiable, un quantifiable – and in fact, poverty is increasing dramatically under this government in Austria. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is an EU debate! – Are you unable to hold an EU debate? Is that so hard?]] – Again, exactly the opposite of what you say and of what Lisbon is pursuing and what is contained in this legislative programme! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck:... Poverty in the Spirit...!]] Where, ladies and gentlemen, are your concrete approaches? – Three members of the government speak here, and there is no concrete approach to the implementation of the objectives of this legislative programme. That's really crazy! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Working Time Directive, Services Directive – everything is under discussion. Mr Bartenstein, Federal Minister, defended and said: That's the right thing! – Mr Bundeskanzler Schüssel says: If we had the country of origin principle in other areas, for example at universities, we would not be worried. – But you can’t even say that and say it differently – that’s it! [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Yes, you can!]] You can do it, Minister of State! That is the problem, and that is why people have no confidence in Europe: because people like you are participating in and participating in politics. You have no confidence in this policy as you do in those who make you national here. It would be high time for a turn in this policy, because this policy is wrong for Austria and wrong for Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3230	The next speaker is Mr Grillitsch. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3251	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful that we are today able to hold this debate on Europe and on the Commission's legislative programme, because this gives us the opportunity to point out the following: What has this Europe brought us? What has this EU accession brought us? Where are we? What are the challenges? What are the positions of the individual parties on this Europe and on these proposals? [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I'll tell you, Dr. Cap and Dr. Gusenbauer, you have shown your true face again today. Thank you very much. The rural area and its people, the farmers and farmers, as well as consumers, know what you are planning. They want agricultural structures in Austria and Europe. They want to destroy the peasant family farms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This EU has brought us peace and security, and we are grateful for that. It is precisely this security, this comprehensive security, but also the security in the rural population programmes and also for farmers that we want to guarantee for the future, ladies and gentlemen, too. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I don't think there should be a double-bedded strategy here. I recognise doing more for research, more for growth and more for employment. Of course! We want people to have work, but not at the expense of a group of people, namely the farmers. I'm sure we won't let that happen. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] We want new markets, we want the use of new technologies, ladies and gentlemen, to do so. We want more competitiveness, we want more market orientation. To do this, these stable conditions need to be met. With all that you suggest – there are We recognize your true face in the socialist boat of Europe with Tony Blair and the EU Trade Commissioner Peter Mandelson. Mr Gusenbauer and you support this. If someone proposes to cut agricultural support by 50 percent, then that is simply unacceptable, Dr. Cap! Please, say that to Dr. Gusenbauer, who loves and nice... [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer is in the back of the SPÖ.]] – Ah, he's here anyway, I didn't see him at all! He came back. Good morning, Dr. Gusenbauer! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now I know why he is making a country party, to calm his bad conscience, to agree to Tony Blair on the one hand, to cut 50 percent of agricultural funds, and on the other hand to tell the farmers outside, we want this small-scale farming. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Only the wine growers!]] [[Calls and calls between the SPÖ and the Freeman.]] On several occasions we have tried to clarify to you, Dr. Gusenbauer, what your proposals mean: the halving of the mining programmes and the halving of the environmental programme. You'll meet exactly the group that's trying to make you know on the spot that you're behind her. [[Abg. Reheis: That's all wrong!]] You are betraying this small-scale structure in Europe! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It's interesting when you come to Landeck or Burgenland and talk to the people there, they say, in fact, we see quite clearly now: The cast farmer has as much knowledge of the farmers as the cow of the egg laying. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I am not saying that, but I am telling the people where Mr Gusenbauer was. Ladies and gentlemen, he does not want to see it, and I am very clear to you the consequences. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You are the representative of the farmer's death! Grillisch, the female farmer!]] Dr. Gusenbauer, you are the agro-industrial representative, we represent the rural structures. They also reveal the consumer's claim for safe food production so that people know who is producing as well. They reveal the consumer's claim for environmentally sound, animal-friendly production and also reveal the claim of the population, the society to open the landscape for a flourishing tourism in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You betray the farmers!]] You know what that means. With their proposals and proposals Tony Blairs, 530 000 jobs are lost in Austria. Open up! Today, you've proved that you want to. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: What do you have against the farmers?]] And there's something else in the double pack. The WTO negotiations are now under way in Hong Kong. Nor does it come about that a socialist trade commissioner from Tony Blair, a British who is so much in favour of casting farmers, is now at the WTO negotiations in Hong Kong beyond the EU negotiating mandate... – Mr President, I am already at my conclusion. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] Excuse me, Madam President. Excuse me! I'm coming to my closing point. Dr. Gusenbauer, I have a request to you: You didn't understand; we tried several times to explain this to you. Please leave your fingers off the farmers and the countryside!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3462	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. It's the main word. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3484	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The current EU debate has so far had many internal political but very few European facets. If I take up the speeches of Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Cap and the subsequent debates on this matter, I must say that the Austrians' confidence in the European Union fails to ensure that simple, bilateral things cannot be done. For example, I am thinking of the federal state of Burgenland, where twelve small border crossings at the request of Hungary and at the request of the people in the villages, in the economy and in the regions are finally to be opened in order to allow small border traffic between Ödenburg and the neighbouring communities, so that 35 or 40 kilometres of detour to the cemetery visit or to visit relatives are finally a thing of the past. It is not the European Union's fault that this is not happening, but only the head of the Burgenland, Niessl, who restricts these initiatives to date and maintains a new border in the new Europe that is absurd. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Aha! What does Darabos say?]] Small border traffic is certainly not the one through which the transit flows of illegal workers will come to Austria, but it would also be an important concern for the European Union's recovery in the Neusiedler Lake Joint National Park, which should be taken seriously and wherever it should be possible, with the border controls, which are still in the Burgenland, Lower Austria and the East border, to get hold of the feared crossing of illegal border workers, but not to create new barriers where the Iron Curtain has finally fallen since 1989. There too, Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Cap could be better promoted with their own policy, the European identity and the co-existence of the regions. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] What concerns me is that if we look at the report of the European Union on the distribution campaign for European money, the fact that many regional programmes that give the regions room for initiative are now being used to the savings fund. The Socialist opposition should be clearly stated that the Austrian Federal Government in the Troika has played a significant part in ensuring that such projects are at the appropriate stage of the future. In this regard, I am sure that the European Union and the Austrian EU Presidency in 2006 will ensure that these meaningful regional work programmes to develop regional cooperation, to increase cohesion across borders, as the population wishes to be, will be the instrument to reduce resentment against Europe and will strengthen cooperation and cooperation in friendship and cultural diversity, and that not the programmes prescribed by Brussels against the wishes of the regions and against the wishes of the population are the means of choice. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I therefore believe that these programmes make sense and that it makes sense for a small country like Austria, with its federalist structural system, to be clearly opposed in the European Presidency to those countries that have other ideas and ideas, such as Great Britain, like Holland, but also like France. That's our chance, that's our hope, that's our future! Let me also address Mrs Silhavy and her fears, which have decouvringly ended with the fact that a new election in Austria would at last be the means of the election for European regeneration in the field of solidarity and in the field of work and employment! Mrs Silhavy, we have too much unemployment. This has not been disputed in Parliament by the representatives of the government parties or by the government bank, but what you always forget about social democracy is that we also have the highest employment in the second Republic. [[Abg. Silhavy:... Lisbon goals!]] However, we have not managed to achieve that increase in our work and to bring growth to the Austrian economy, which brings us from 3 to 3.5 percent growth and then becomes more effective in the workplace. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:...! People don't have jobs!]] While we have just got better data for the next year from the economic research institutes, we will all have to make every effort together to achieve more work and employment – at the highest level of employment and not only at a high level of unemployment. Not every part-time employment is unwanted, but part-time employment is an important point especially in the compatibility of family and work. Especially the Chamber of Labour would also be well advised to insist more on women returning to the workplace with their representations in the labour market service that, after the karenz period, women also get a fairer and better chance of better-designed programmes. Since you should contact your own address, Mrs Silhavy, and not always the Federal Government, although you know that some labour market service regions in Austria are still firmly in the hands of sub-union unions and the male element for women is still difficult to overcome, when I think about some districts where the Bau-Holz union still has the say and the employment of women is not a major concern of the construction wood representatives. [[Abg. Silhavy: The government is already responsible for economic policy, is it? Is the ÖGB responsible for this?]] There are no fair programmes for women. With ironing certificates and Christmas table decorations, women will not get employment, with restructuring, new work and new vocational training, they will get work. If you return to the programmes that you have already known from my time as Minister of Women, then women will again have a better benchmarking in employment and lower numbers in unemployment! I would strongly recommend this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3577	The next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 5 minutes speaking time; Total residence time for the Greens: 8 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3599	Madam President. Appreciate members of the government! High house! A positive effect of the Austrian Presidency has already been established, namely that the EU is not in Brussels, but that we are part of the EU, and that our government is strongly involved in those things that are always decided in Brussels – so far away. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The work programme, the so-called legislative programme, is in fact very extensive. The question of what can be implemented will also depend on whether the financing under the British Presidency is now secured, otherwise this issue will overestimate the Austrian Presidency and very little will be done about what is currently contained in this programme. In addition to the issues, there is, in my view, an important point for the Austrian Presidency. After the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty in the Netherlands and France, the question will also be: Is it possible to launch a debate on the positive prospects of the European Union? Is it possible to make this a topic in Austria and give people a perspective here? This is important because this positive mood for the EU only arises if there is some sort of security about where this EU is going. It is certainly true that part of the rejection of the Constitutional Treaty in the Netherlands and in France was also related to the fact that it was not a matter where it was supposed to go, which is the intended end in the EU's structure, which political form and which competences the EU should have. I find it very comprehensible that people say before we don't know where it goes, we don't want to give up our own national security. This debate will be held here in order to build confidence in the political project Europe, in view of the fact that it is not just an economic union and that the EU is connecting the economy, but that there will also be social security in this EU. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] In recent years, there has been a growing disparity between the poor and the rich throughout the EU, not only in Austria. This is also due, among other things, to this EU-internal competition, to which Mr Bartenstein is so pleased to commend here, because this EU-internal competition not only has positive effects – which he has for some – but also leaves a lot of losers behind, whether in small businesses or in the workforce. And as long as this is not fixed, it is perfectly clear that people can no longer have confidence in this new structure. One example of this can be seen very well, and that has already been the case today, the so-called Services Directive. I therefore think that is so symptomatic because this really shows this tension between economic issues and social issues. If Mr Bartenstein, who stands up for this so-called Services Directive, is to be able to provide cross-border services, so to speak, the positive part, but at the same time is very much committed to the fact that this so-called country of origin principle comes into force, that is to say, that not Austrian law, but the law of other countries, is undermined by national law and put out of force and threatens small businesses and workers here, then They do not wonder that there is great resistance to this European Union project. As I believe, the Austrian Government is calling on it to commit itself in a reasonable way to economic policy. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] A small sidestep, which also applies to you, Mr Barbeque: If you were here a little less polemizing and instead used more at EU level for distribution justice in the field of support, then the small farmers in Austria would also be more helpful. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3660	The next speaker was Mr Parnigoni. Total residence time for SPÖ: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3684	Madam President. High house! Mr Grillitsch, I would like to say one thing to you before I start my actual speech: Their policy leads – this is known – to the fact that farmers under ten hectares actually say goodbye to the landscape and the number of farms will grow massively over 50 hectares. [[Abg. Grill: Take 50 percent away!]] 4 800 farms have locked up per year! You're responsible for this with your policy. This is the truth, Mr Grillitsch! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the direction of Dr. Gusenbauer and SPÖ: We are concerned with justice, we are concerned with the promotion of the mining industry, we are concerned with the promotion of agricultural labour and we are concerned with the future prospects of the peasantry and not the agricultural industry for which you stand. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the internal security of the Commission's legislative programme. What we have here certainly does not serve to strengthen confidence in the institutions of Europe. This Commission work programme is characterised by the fact that policy areas are presented with headlines and very imprecise statements. On the subject of terrorism, for example, the Commission is merely saying: better cooperation, more coordination between Member States. However, there is no statement as to how to deal with sensitive issues of consideration, to what extent fundamental rights intervention is legitimate and which fundamental rights are at all affected. It is very easy to establish a balance between preserving the security of the population on the one hand and safeguarding the right to privacy, the right to data protection and other fundamental rights on the other. High house! We have this issue at the meeting of the chairmen of the Committees of the Interior of the National Parliaments and of the European Parliament on 23 and 24. ==References====External links== From the Austrian side, I presented a five-point programme that deals with the democratic legitimacy of anti-terrorism measures. The following must be clear to all of us: Terrorists have already achieved a goal of destroying the European value system by setting measures that are serious and sustainable in European fundamental rights and in the fundamental value system. High house! I would now like to focus briefly on this five-point programme. Firstly, Parliament must be fully involved at national and European level in the preparation and decision-making of anti-terrorism measures. Secondly, fundamental rights intervention in each individual case must be assessed for its proportionality. Thirdly, there is a constant review of compliance with the principles of data protection by independent data protection councils. Fourthly, it is a constant evaluation of whether fundamental rights intervention is still necessary. This can be achieved by time-limiting the time-limit for Parliaments to check whether these measures are still necessary after the expiry of the deadline. Finally, it will be necessary for an anti-terrorist policy to ensure its credibility and legitimacy, that there is an active and social integration policy in Europe and that there is a European peace initiative aimed at removing the social nourishment of terrorism, particularly in the Middle East and the Middle East. As chairman of the Committee on the Interior, I have, together with the Ministry of the Interior, the list of topics for the follow-up meeting, which took place on 10 October. April of next year will take place in Austria, coordinated and defined. The key issues will be whether asylum policy and migration policy can be managed in a uniform manner, whether common crisis and disaster management can be installed in Europe and whether Schengen will continue to be evaluated. That will be an important issue! And I am really horrified at the fact that the Secretary of State has not lost a word on the issue of the visa offensive. That's really scandalous. The repatriation of responsibility for the illegal issue of visas between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior is unbearable and unworthy of a rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is expected that this visa crime has been imported to an incredible extent into Austria. It is true that at the front door of the Republic, thousands of soldiers and policemen stand with a sharp weapon and monitor the Schengen border, but through the back door with illegally bought visas, people come to our country. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] In the newspaper “The Press”, Mr. Strasser said: “I don’t want to say anything about that. I do not want to harm the Commissioner."
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3746	Ladies and gentlemen, please put the final sentence to the vote.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3762	Yeah, I'll be right there. – What does Dr. Strasser know? [[Abg. Großruck: On the topic!]] What does Mrs Ferrero-Waldner know? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What is that?]] And why is the majority of governments refusing to set up an investigation committee, although that was the case in Germany?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3818	Next comes Mrs Mag. Hakl speaking. 5 minutes speaking time; Total due time for the ÖVP: Six minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3850	Madam President. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Much has been said today about the European social model and what Europe actually is. Europe is more than a social model and is much more than an economic model and is even more than just the largest peace project in world history. Europe is a model of society and life which is characterised by many individual, very special elements: economic strength and social cohesion, not by either the tiger state or the Oder in the never-functioning Communism. Europe means a health system that can provide medicine at a top level for all citizens. Europe means that in all the countries of Europe the dignity of man is considered untouchable, which is also enshrined in the constitutions and in all Our laws must also be truly visible. Europe means that it offers opportunities for each individual citizen in the fields of education and personal development individually and independently of their origin. Europe means that women in most of Europe's major cities can walk on the road at midnight without having to be afraid. Europe is an area of security. It offers security not only from any external enemies, but also within the land for us and for our children. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Europe is characterized by what is our most important task here in Parliament: from the ability and from the willingness to dialogue, from being able to listen to other people and to find a consensus by promoting this consensus. I think it is crucial that we not only talk about social models and market economies, but also, in essence, about the questions: What is our Europe? What values do we want to live – we, who are all Europe? How do we bring these values into a common Europe and to international success when Europe is seen all over the world? So if Europe is a particular model of life and society and this model of life and society is different elsewhere in the world, it is also vital to me that the questions be debated as soon as possible: Who belongs to Europe? Who wants to live with this model of society and life? Where are the common roots – philosophical, religious and also historical roots, partly also from painful experiences of the past – that make it possible for us to build on a common value base and to create a Europe that doesn't have to fear anyone and in which this life model can be lived as a model and as a model in the world? It is therefore also crucial that Europe and all the institutions of Europe and all the people of Europe ask themselves the question of the borders of Europe: Where does Europe begin, and where does Europe end?, and where is this dialogue, where there are still many different approaches, actually begins. The questions must be asked: Which common model of life is who willing to carry along and go along? And: Who will decide where the borders of Europe are? Let us finally begin to define, in addition to a thousand details, the most important factor for people in Europe: Who are we? What do we want? Where do we want to go together and side by side in Europe? This also includes the fact that once Austria has the opportunity, in twelve and a half years, to make a significant contribution to our Europe as part of a Presidency, it will be shared by all of us here in Parliament. Something else may and cannot be – even if the opposition here in the House is against a common approach on a common basis for purely party-political reasons, which I am very sorry about. I believe that we should work to ensure that, by the beginning of this important task of Austria in our Europe, there is a consensus here in Parliament on how the EU Council Presidency works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3914	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. Total residence time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e3938	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Hakl, it is certain that there must be and should be common approaches here. These are thanks to God in certain areas, even if they are occasionally overlaid by the populist discussion. Only: We also have specific problems in Europe that need to be solved, and this Presidency of the Council of Austria can and must play a central role. My colleague Scheibner has already mentioned it: We have the debate on the EU budget. We have the debate on the problem with the Constitutional Treaty, which has not yet been resolved. And we have discussions on the issue of EU enlargement. It's still in the room. I don't think you're going to get there with squirting swivelling. It will be important to find concrete solutions. The fact that Dr. Gusenbauer and Mr Grillitsch and Mrs Sburny have been playing as an agriculturaler in this debate and have, so to speak, discussed agriculture in principle also proves that there are problems in many areas which have not been mentioned here today. This proves that agricultural policy is an important area. [[Abg. Sburny:... see about the horizon!]] – Mrs Sburny, you don't have to get upset at all! [[Abg. Sburny: I'm not excited!]] You find in me the agriculturaler, who is probably one of the few between the fronts here, because both the SPÖ and the ÖVP have a policy here that is not credible. [[He-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] They have jointly designed the agricultural policy for decades. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] – In fact, Mr Parnigoni, Mr Parnigoni, you have to take your own nose, because who has introduced the agricultural support system? As far as I know, there was also the SPÖ. That means you should be very careful and not preach water and drink wine. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Parnigoni.]] But now from the farmers back to Europe. I would like to highlight three main issues. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] I'm glad you're so interested in farm policy. Perhaps we should discuss them on a broader basis. I'm really looking forward to it. I really don't need this discussion, because I am one who is active as a farmer myself and who knows where the concerns and problems are. This cannot be claimed by many in your ranks. [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Now back to the EU's priorities. Firstly, the EU budget. – In reality, this budget is an unexplained case, it is currently under discussion. I have to say: I was quite surprised yesterday when the new issue of the magazine “NEWS” reads that the Federal Chancellor talks about where his priorities lie that all EU Member States should pay 0.4 percent of GDP. Now it says here that the Ministry of Finance says that we are currently paying 0.21 percent on average. That means that this would mean a doubling of Austria's contributions. To that end, I say: That's the wrong approach! Herbert Scheibner said it quite right when he held here: For us, it is not possible that these contributions will be increased! We will not agree to increases in contributions. Especially in times when British discounts are under discussion and the whole agricultural support is being discussed, it must be made clear and clear that there is no increase in contributions for Austria. That's very important! [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] Secondly, the question of the Constitution. – This question was also discussed very competently, as it stands, and found that we have a standstill there. It was philosophized over a period of thought. Ladies and gentlemen! I think we all have to admit to ourselves that the European Constitution, as it is currently in place, has failed. I mean, there's going to be too little for a rethink. I see this very clearly: That's what it says: Back to the start! The whole thing has to be re-established. It is completely incomprehensible that we are talking about thought breaks on this question, that we are trying to gain time, so to speak. We will not be able to solve this problem with time. We won't succeed. We are also called upon to go back to the start and to negotiate a reasonable solution together. Thirdly, EU enlargement. – The enlargement of the European Union is, it seems, an important thing. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] – I come to the conclusion, Madam President. – We should always keep in mind when it comes to enlargement: Not only does Austria have to endure this enlargement, but the whole European Union must also be able to implement this enlargement, as planned.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e4044	The next item is Mrs Dr. Moser's speech. Total residence time: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e4065	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Europe is a model of life, the individual is at the heart of – that is what European cultural history tells us – the life of the individual is worth something. Europe is a security model. They all say that the great benefit of the European Union is security. I'll tell you: The biggest European security problem – Mr Vice-Chancellor, you will agree with me – is road safety, and I have brought you today a picture on which a wreck of cars can be seen. [[The speaker makes the above image visible to all Members on the speaker's desk.]] The cause of the accident number one is excessive speed. Mr Vice-Chancellor, you know very well, in the accident statistics...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e4110	Mrs Rossmann, please interrupt your conversation!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e4125	The cause of the accident number one is excessive speed. [[Abg. Scheibner: We have an EU debate, Mrs Colleague!]] Behind that is the mentality that speed that speed is positive. My problem is, Mr Vice-Chancellor, that with your project to test Tempo 160, you support a mentality that is life-threatening. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Lie down!]] That's why I'm doing it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I should like to point out that, with your test tests, you are totally contrary to the European security model in various respects. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is the wrong item on the agenda!]] Mr Vice-Kanzler, I should like to inform you of the statistics ‘Austria in the international comparison’. [[The speaker shows the statistics mentioned above.]] [[Deputy Chancellor Gorbach: I know them!]] Fortunately, they know her. Then you also know that, unfortunately, Austria is in the forefront of the road accidents, far above the EU average, both what happens to accidents per 1 000 inhabitants, and what happens to accidents per 1 000 vehicles. I can also quote it to you. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Where is Germany?]] The problem that you are causing with your test madness, with your goal of increasing speed, is not just risking human life. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This is a good goal!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: You're agitating fears!]] Mr. Vice-Chancellor, I don't want to be in your skin if something happens! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You got it very well presented yesterday: Your test track shows wild change, on your test track there is a danger of sluice. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What?]] - Yes. Go there once! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: I drive there every day! I'm home there!]] You should have looked at the last “Report ”! This was seen in the “Report ” yesterday. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Mr Scheuch, I think that the bad conscience is yours, otherwise you would not constantly talk to me. You can't calm down your bad conscience. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Please be quiet now, for I am speaking. Thank you. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Federal Minister, you are making this attempt for a single reason: because you want to vote for election.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e4305	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e4326	That's my final sentence: The survival of your party is worth more to you than human life!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e4353	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. [[11:37:00]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-12-07-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00131_d7e4375	I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 751/A and 752/A have been tabled. I call the next meeting of the National Council at 11.37 a.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. The agenda can be found in the written communication distributed in the hall. The session will begin at a Question Time. This meeting is closed.
