ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3199	I'll open the 120. The meeting of the National Council and may ask the ladies and gentlemen to take up the seats. [[11:00:11]] Meeting of the ordinary meeting 2005/2006
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3224	The President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with a resolution of 5. On September 28, 2005 in accordance with Article 28(1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 1 of the Federal Constitutional Act the National Council for the 16th century. September 2005 at the ordinary meeting 2005/2006 of XXII. This is the first time we have been able to reach agreement on this subject. The Official Protocol of the 119. Meeting of 11. On August 1, 2005, the Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. As prevented, MEPs are reported Dr. Fassleven, Ing. Winkler, Parnigoni and Dr. Wittmann. [[11:00:26]] Absence of mandate and fishing
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3259	The Federal Electoral Authority has issued a communication that MP Dr. Dieter Böhmdorfer gave up his mandate and, in his place, Mr Anton Wattaulin was appointed the National Council. Since the election permit is already in place and the person mentioned is present in the house, I will immediately make his fishing observation. After reading the vow formula by the writer, the new representative will have to do his fishing with the words “I promise”. I now ask the author, Mrs Mag. Dr. Maria Theresia Fekter to read the vow formula.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3295	“They will be vowed unbreakable fidelity of the Republic of Austria, constant and full observation of the constitutional laws and all other laws and conscientious fulfilment of your obligations.”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3317	I promise.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3332	I warmly welcome the new Members, who are not actually a new Member, but rather a “re-comedy” – in our midst. [[General condolences.]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3356	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolutions of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has made the following communication: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnik wird by the Federal Minister for Agriculture, Forestry, Environment and Water Management Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll, Federal Minister of State Defense Günther Platterwird by Federal Minister for Health and Women Maria Rauch-Kallatret. [[11:02:13]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3398	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3650	According to § 93 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure called for urgent consideration of the written question tabled at the beginning of the meeting 3428/J by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues and colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture concerning ‘Education Misers’. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the request for urgent procedure will take place at least three hours after receipt of the agenda, i.e. at 2 p.m. We agreed at the Presidential Conference in the form of a circular decision that this afternoon at 2.05 p.m., on time, we are beginning to see the President on the occasion of the death of Dipl.-Ing. Simon Wiesenthal acknowledges his life's work and, following it, a appreciation of the deceased is made on the part of each club. I therefore ask that we find ourselves in the meeting room at 2 p.m. It's broadcast live by TV. I think it's good that we honor Simon Wiesenthal in this way and take him into account. Unfortunately, we cannot be there when we adopt it at 3 p.m. at the central cemetery, but I believe that we also show him respect and recognition in this way. I'll interrupt the meeting by 2 p.m. The sitting was suspended.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3704	I'll start the interrupted session again. I ask the ladies and gentlemen of the House to rise from their seats. [[All present rise from their places.]] [[14:05:08]] Ceremony on the occasion of the death of Dipl.-Ing. Simon Wiesenthal
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3738	Ladies and gentlemen! Yesterday the news of Simon Wiesenthal's death reached us. A great humanist, a fighter for justice and justice has left us. Depending on Simon Wiesenthal's position, many nicknames were given: “Conscience of the Holocaust”, “Men of Peace”, “Nazi hunters”, “Men of Reconciliation and Justice”, “untiring fighters against oblivion”, “reconnaissance and humanist”. Today we document here in the Hohe Haus that we are grateful to Simon Wiesenthal for his life's work. The entire National Council pays him recognition and respect. His life was marked by the struggle for justice and not by hatred and retribution. He constantly fought against the thesis of the collective debt of an entire people for the crimes of National Socialism. His principle was always: It is the individual person who is guilty, the individual. His suffering, his severe fate, the extermination of his entire family – of 90 persons – did not rob him of his humanity and humanity through twelve concentration camps of the National Socialist State of Crime. Today we all honor and honor him. It wasn't always like that. Simon Wiesenthal, through his work, has painfully contributed to our being more honest with our history and our responsibility in Austria. The fact that we have this responsibility today, ladies and gentlemen, is also his work. Simon Wiesenthal was influenced by the idea of justice. He therefore repeatedly protected Austria and Austrians from lump-sum convictions. And he has never allowed an acquisition of political groups or interest groups, an instrumentization. Today we mourn the death of Simon Wiesenthal and show him our respect. We lost a great Austrian. Thank you. A minute's silence in his honor, we will follow the speeches of the clubmen who will now follow. I ask you to take your seat and ask Mr Klubobmann Mag. Molterer to the speaker's desk.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3795	Ladies and gentlemen! Simon Wiesenthal, his personality, but above all his activity for a lifetime, are for us admonition, commission and scale – warning in the sense of keeping the memory awake and actually living this “Never forgotten”. It is also a reminder to us that we were not witnesses of time because we have the “grace of late birth. ” It is therefore up to us to take over the staves of memory and guard. The person and the activity of Simon Wiesenthal are also, and above all, the mission – mandate to us today, which we bear responsibility, not only act today and in the future against any form of anti-Semitism, racism and xenophobia, but also combat. The person Simon Wiesenthals and his actions are a scale – a scale for our own work. This “right, not revenge” is also a measure for us, as well as his commitment to individual guilt instead of collective debt, but also the resulting attitude to keep murdered from forgetting, on the one hand, but on the other hand to bring the perpetrators of punishment. We must not forget – even on a day like today – that Simon Wiesenthal had long been a lonely caller in the desert and also annoyed. He was also confronted as a person himself with unjustified accusations. Simon Wiesenthal, however, did not get hurt on his way either. I think his path has been marked by Markstones, the path he has gone, which in all his life is committed to truth, justice and reconciliation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3832	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Simon Wiesenthal was a great Austrian. He was therefore a great Austrian, because he raised his voice at a time when the past was clarified, kept silent and pushed away. There is a key work of the Austrian literature by Hans Lebert, “Die Wolfshaut”. In this book, he describes the post-war period in a village called silence, where it is consciously tried to banish, conceal and not make it the subject of private or public conversation. And this book clearly describes very well how widespread such moods were. Simon Wiesenthal was one of the first to raise his voice and point out the crimes of National Socialism, contrary to such a spirit, which was obviously widespread in Austria. socialism and was not guided by the claim, as Klubobmann Molterer correctly said to practice revenge, but to ensure justice. And he has not always expressed his wish, as one can imagine, when one knows Austrian history, but has done much of what he has done, against the resistance of public opinion, partly against the resistance of public opinion and also against the resistance of politics. Therefore, his activity was extremely courageous and extremely important, at a time when many wanted to push it out. Perhaps today's willingness to deal more openly with the past is linked to the work of many personalities. But I believe that the seeds of Simon Wiesenthal's work are in it by putting ourselves more openly and sincerely in the past today. You will often be in conversation with people, saying: Why don't you end up with the past? It's been a long time. Shouldn't we finally draw a final line here? – There is obviously the need to finally leave behind the tormenting chapters of our dark past. I mean, the answer of democrats must always be: We cannot draw a conclusion here, because only if one remembers the horror and its causes will one be able to face contemporary dangers of racism, anti-Semitism and other tendencies. It is therefore important to remember a personality like Simon Wiesenthal today that one has in mind that the struggle for the reworking of history is not something that has naturally happened, but which was essentially the merit of such personalities as Simon Wiesenthal. We are all obliged to thank him very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3890	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Simon Wiesenthal survived twelve concentration camps. He has experienced and survived the Holocaust and has spent his remaining activities and has committed himself to investigating war crimes, becoming guilty of war criminals, and to inform and inform subsequent generations of this darkest chapter of our recent history. He was also criticized for this, partly also by the highest representatives of this state. If one deals with history, even the post-war history of Austria – one only needs to read the Council of Ministers protocols of the post-war years – one only has to remember what careers high-ranking National Socialists have done at that time – then one knows that this time was at that time a very, very difficult phase of the real, honest work of this dark chapter. It is two principles that Simon Wiesenthal and others who have worked in this sense have passed on to us. The first principle: If such crimes, dictatorships, human rights violations, mass murder and genocide – especially the victims of these terrible events – are really to be worked out, then it is also necessary to show that those who have caused these horrors are also held responsible and cannot be subjugated or perhaps even come into high positions. The second principle, which is of particular importance to us, which we said to the younger generation – Klubobmann Molterer: equipped with the “Grace of late birth” – is that every society must always fight again and again for the principles of democracy, freedom, human rights and humanism. This is not a matter of course, but must always be developed again and again. That is why it is also important to confess to your own history, for history can only repeat itself where it has been forgotten. That will also be our responsibility in the future. We must ensure that a biography like that of Simon Wiesenthal no longer has to repeat and that there is no discussion in a country like Austria about how much percentage of anti-democratic or anti-Semitic or inhuman ideas this country has, but that there is a consensus – not to 60, 70 or 80 percent, but to 100 percent – on the values and also to 100 percent on this “Never again” to which we have to confess.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3932	It's true: A great Austrian has died – one who has put justice and justice before the principle of revenge; but on the right, he has partly persisted against the hardest resistance over the decades of his work. I believe that Simon Wiesenthal's importance goes far beyond Austria, far beyond Europe, and he may not have been immeasurably involved in certain developments in recent years. This is what I mean by: Simon Wiesenthal insisted that it was not about abstract crimes of National Socialism, but rather about perpetrators, about people who committed these crimes, about concrete criminals, from Adolf Eichmann downward. This principle of individual responsibility for such crimes is, I believe, something very new in legal history. I wonder if without Simon Wiesenthal developments such as the establishment of the International Criminal Court or the War Crime Tribunal in The Hague could have been established. Simon Wiesenthal has made sure that everyone who has committed such crimes must be responsible to the dictator and president, sooner or later before an international court, regardless of the rank of the person, from the guard of the concentration camp in Mauthausen to the modern conditions. In so far as I mean, Simon Wiesenthal is unforgettable in his struggle for the detection of the crimes of National Socialism, especially within the framework of the Holocaust against the Jewish population, but his legacy goes far beyond that. What he has done has become preventive for crimes of the future, which we hopefully do not experience because of his work.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e3962	I thank the clubmen and now ask for a minute's silence on the sign of mourning. [[Those present rise from their places and persist for some time in stupid mourning.]] Thank you. [[Those present take their seats again.]] [[14:22:07]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr Alexander Van der Bellen, colleagues to the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture on Education Misere (3428/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4004	We come to the urgent debate on the written question 3428/J. As this has now been done to all the Members, there is a lack of reading by the author. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4841	Before I give the floor to the applicant, I declare that the Presidential Conference for the period from now until 5 p.m., which is transferred by the ORF, has adopted the following Rules of Procedure: The applicant for the justification of the urgent request: 20 minutes, the member of the government also surveyed 20 minutes, then one speech per group of 10 minutes, then a speech by another member of the government with 8 minutes, another word per group with 5 minutes, then a speech by a member of the government with 8 minutes, now one word per group with 5 minutes, and finally another word per group with 5 minutes. Before the end of the final round, the President-in-Office's remaining speaking time will be distributed among the political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak evenly. Actual corrections are called after 5 p.m. There is no mention of word messages for business treatment. I give the floor to Mr Van der Bellen as the first questioner on the grounds of the question. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e4875	Mr President. It is not quite easy to return to the troubles of everyday life, which appear comparatively trivial, but are still important enough. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to start with the following observation: Over the past five years, some 75 000 young people have left Austrian compulsory schools, and these 75 000 are likely to have the biggest problems in the labour market. If education and school policy does not change very quickly, then over the next five years we will release some 75 000 people from compulsory schools into the world of work, with the same highest risks, namely the risks of becoming unemployed and of staying unemployed in the worst case. I hope you know that I tend to be understatement rather than superfluous dramatizations, but these figures do not require any special imagination; I am calling for the x-th time – I will do it again and again in the coming years – to the last so-called PISA study, the international comparative study on student performance in Europe and the OECD as a whole. This PISA study on the cutting-off of 15 to 16-year-olds in Austria in 2003 showed that some 18 000 compulsory students leave school without having sufficient reading knowledge. Sufficiently, these young people can read quickly, fluently, and above all meaningfully, meaningfully. There is no sufficient knowledge, therefore, of about one fifth of the 15 to 16 year olds each year; in 2003, it was, as has been said, 18,000 people. I was, as you can see, somewhat generous anyway, and I have expected 5 times 15 000, so I have come to 75 000. We know that the number of students is going back in the near future, so on average I have adopted 15 000 pupils for this ten-year period, which results in a total of 150,000 people, no one here in the hall, I say, knowing how to meet the requirements of the modern labour market if they are unable to read meaningfully. How is such a person supposed to understand an operating instruction, an instruction from the foreman or the master, and so on in an appropriate time? The advantage of these international studies is that they compare internationally, otherwise we do not know whether this fifth of all 15 to 16-year-olds is much or little, whether that is normal, et cetera. And it's absolutely not normal, as it turns out. I refuse and will also refuse to believe that the Finnish students, for example, are a lot more gifted than the Austrians. Why should this be the case? However, if you look at these really readable – provided that you can do that – PISA short version, which was gratefully published by the Ministry of Education on PISA 2003, then you realize that in Austria 20 percent fall into this risk group – the OECD itself rightly calls it a risk group – while in Finland it says and writes only 6 percent. The difference of 14 percentage points, which is three-quarters of those concerned, must probably be degradable through educational policies, but that is not the case alone, and it is certainly not going from today to tomorrow. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Amon! But what seems to have gone from today to tomorrow is the development in the years 2000 to 2003. And this is particularly depressing, because from 2000 to 2003, the share of this risk group in Austria, which we can only send with the greatest concerns on the labour market, has increased from 14 percent to 20 percent. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] – Excuse me, this is the most convenient way of dizzying from problems: You just doubt the problem. One asks: Where's the problem? The figures will be wrong, that will not be true. Go, go, go, go, go, go, go, [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I hope that the outcome of today's special meeting is not that the ÖVP says PISA, this international comparative study is none of our concern because the OECD figures in Paris are certainly free! – Do you trust to make yourself known to the public? You too, Mr Amon, I do not trust that. You've got to think of something else. It seems that nothing happened in these years. What will happen to this fifth in the next few years? – I sometimes have the impression that some citizens of this country, but also some people here in this area, believe that this is kind of natural, a fifth are always lost somehow, difficult conditions and so on – their own children are not affected anyway, which certainly do not fall into this risk group. I would like to draw on the other end of the scale, i.e. the top group of students who seem to be particularly talented – at least at this time – who have top skills, for example, in reading skills. In mathematics, the image is almost exactly reflected. Reading excellence has 8 percent of the year of the 15 to 16-year-olds in Austria. First of all, I thought: 8 percent half-genies, that's not so little! until I've seen the international comparative values. In Finland, not 8 percent, but 15 percent in the top group. Why are there twice as many half-genies in Finland as in Austria? – There is no such thing as that! That must also be on the system. This must be due to the way in schools up to the age of 15 or 16. I do not want to attack the teachers in any way – I would like to stress this explicitly. On the contrary, these are the first ones who feel the problem, those are the first ones who are overwhelmed by the situation in the classes that are overlaid. The number of students in the classes – I also come back on it – go up instead of going down. Not least because of this situation are the behavioural conspicuousness in the school. All over the world, funding hours, legathenia hours and integration hours are shortened. All over the country is cut short by this federal government. Ladies and gentlemen! In this way, we will not achieve a comprehensive, rigorous, comprehensible growth strategy, including in economic terms, for the country of Austria. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Education policy is now inseparably linked to economic and growth policy. And apart from the social question, which we do with this fifth of students in this area – this is an important social question, if not one of the most important, because these must not be dropped – Austria cannot afford to give up on this fifth of hopeful young people in the long term. So it is not only in the interest of the children and not only in the interest of the parents that we take care of this question, because that is simply important. The current policy of the Federal Government seems to be to shift the problem to the parents' private level. Otherwise, it is not to be explained that private follow-up to students is increasing in a wide range of levels and is now moving in a range of 150 million euros per year – according to gross estimates; clearly, this is nowhere covered by statistics. That's not nothing. This is a privatisation of school risk at the expense of the parents. I guess it won't be able to be in the long run. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I know what Mrs Gehrer will point out: It will do the same as Mr Grasser's Minister of Finance last year, which is to refer to the declining numbers of pupils in Austria. That's right, and I'll be right back on the consequences. The Federal Government is doing the same – and this is the same with ÖVP, BZÖ and the liberals – here the drop in the number of students – as the budget is reduced, the reduction of the posts for teachers and teachers, i.e. a passive adjustment to this development. If Austria were Finland, if we were the class winner in these tests, I would say: It's about reasonable. [[Abg. Scheibner: You wouldn't say that!]] But we're in the bottom third and we're saying, It's all right anyway! – The reality looks different, as all insiders know – talk to the teachers, Mr. Scheibner – and in view of this fact it is adjusted! Do you know what I discovered? – There is the magazine “APS”, published by the Federal section of compulsory school teachers in the Public Service Trade Union. I have the September 2005 issue here. Mr Neugebauer is here. It is from one of your party friends, I suppose, I do not know, from Mr Helmut Ertl, Vice-President, trade unionists. You, Mr Neugebauer, are explicitly quoted in an article. This article refers – very commendable – to the need to reduce the number of students per class, because otherwise the individual promotion of the children in school, which is sought by us and also, I assume, is not at all possible by the SPÖ. This is very praiseworthy of the trade union public service. I could sign virtually any paragraph that stands there. [[Abg. Scheibner: Look here!]] “Look here!” says Mr Scheibner. It is quoted here from a speech by Mr Neugebauer, held in the National Council, - I am afraid that this will be done away with, but it will already be so. Mr Neugebauer said in July: We should take advantage of the decline in the number of students in order to meet the needs of schools. This important concern is to be implemented, namely the reduction in the number of pupils per class. Wonderful! Neugebauer continues: His party, he claims, is absolutely opposed to making savings in the educational budget in the event of a falling number of students at the same time. – Mr Neugebauer! Aren't you in the wrong party? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I guess. Your commitment very much, but I cannot do so in this form. You're in the ÖVP club! In the union, you say: The reduction of the maximum number of students is a command of the hour, is absolutely necessary! At the ÖVP Club, you will be involved in the policy of the ÖVP! Read the prognosis... – Mrs Colleague, I do not want you to read all this yourself, but listen to me the few minutes I still have. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: Have you never heard of the social partners? Professor, Mr Neugebauer is the social partners!]] That's not too much to demand! The State School Council of Lower Austria – which is known to be a body that is not dominated by greens – has counted high as the number of posts for teachers – essentially women – and teachers in Lower Austria will decline in view of the development of the number of students and – this is important – in the light of the agreements on financial compensation between the federal government and countries. There is a passive adjustment of the number of teachers – the number of teachers should be said – to the number of students. In Lower Austria alone, within five years, the number of compulsory school teachers' posts, Mr. Neubauer, will fall by 3,000. If one does not count this only on the thumbs in Austria and Vienna, because in Vienna the demographic situation among the children is different, then one insists that within five years in Austria, due to the politics of ÖVP and FPÖ or BZÖ, whatever, we take only once the ÖVP, 12 000, 12 500, 13 000 – in this order it will be played – posts for teachers in the compulsory school area will be deleted. – 12,000 people! Do you know how much that is? – This is the total number of teachers in compulsory school, currently available in Styria and Burgenland. That's your education policy? That's your growth policy? This is your provision for the future? – Alliance Future Austria – good night. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is primarily about women – teachers – and, of course, it is primarily about young teachers. There is another hole on the labour market, not naturally, but on the basis of your policy. We say: There is a historic window, we use it! We have huge problems in the school system first. Secondly, we have a decline in the number of pupils. Let's do this! Let us make more out of this situation if we remain in the same budget! This is the huge advantage in compulsory schools as opposed to universities. For the universities, we really need more money, a lot more money in the coming years. But just to save schools broken because the Minister of Finance is so fit in with this, is that supposed to be a provision for the future? [[Abg. Grossruck: That's unscrupulous, Professor!]] Go out, Mr. Van der ÖVP, and make this clear to the young teachers who have been waiting for a job for years. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Go to a folk school in Vienna, of which there are few, with 50, 80, 90 per cent foreign-speaking children, regardless of citizenship, and make it clear how to get along with fewer teachers' posts, declining funding hours, declining mother tongue additional education and so on. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why is that so?]] This is your “serious” education policy, in which one can basically only catch air. [[Abg. Grossruck: More seriosity, Professor!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is better than talking!]] And if we're already at the universities: The policy of this Federal Government is based on a range of restrictions on access, which have been generously left to universities to control the number of students in any way, i.e. to keep or reduce constantly, at least in certain areas. The fact is, however, that in Austria, the number of people with academic qualifications, the so-called academic ratio – a gross word, but that is just the subject expression – is extremely low. I was surprised by it myself. Austria is final in the EU and OECD at 15 percent. On average, the OECD is 24, in Finland, Sweden and Denmark 32.33 percent. That's the double! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] I know there are statistical uncertainties here; that is true. Certain academic professions do not exist in this form in Austria, therefore also the corresponding degree does not exist. But don't try to make me know that Austria is cutting off so badly in these statistics, because a so-called academic degree has not been necessary for the profession of the kindergarten or the folk school teacher so far! This difference between 15 and 33 percent does not explain to me in this way. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Is a nice number! That's 100,000 jobs!]] This is your provision for the future? That's growth policy? This is a serious challenge to the EU's Lisbon objectives, the Bologna goals and what they all call them? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They ensure that the roof not only licks in the Austrian economy, but in fact soon tears. You have to invest in redesigning this roof! And that is by no means just the academic ratio. In order to increase this number, we need to increase the number of students, and to increase the number of students – not to reduce as the Federal Government wants, but to increase – of course, the number of students in the AHS, in the higher schools and, above all, the number of transfers of students with Matura to the university must also be increased. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The Austrian values in this area are truly deplorable. 35 percent of all maturants change to the university sooner or later. This is the advantage of such an international comparative study that you can see how it looks in other countries. In Sweden it is about 80 percent! Sweden is doing something for the future of economic policy, which, of course, also has consequences for the social policy sector. We in Austria are threatening to sleep this development to the knowledge society. [[Unrest in the ranks of ÖVP delegates.]] – The ÖVP does not listen today either, but sometime the invoice will be presented to you for this. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] We also need more money at the universities. It is! We need an investment boost to replace obsolete investments. We must finally take the complaints of the rectors seriously! As an emergency program for now, we expect 170 million € additional needs. How can this go on if you do not, at last, make a change in your policy, keep in mind, consider, realize that the former was wrong, are ready to say: We're changing the course!Unknown term type: "%s".? If not now, when then? It is about changing the budgetary priorities, not about a “plakat”-need as now, where the “New School”, which does not exist, is posterated, and that is €800 000! This must be broken on the tongue: To apply for something €800 000 that is not in reality at all. For this you have € 800 000, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, but for the schools, for the universities you have no money. That's really sad! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Like the commander in Upper Austria!]] Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer! We have deliberately taken a short look, and I hope – thank you, Mr President! – that you say and write at least our five questions – not 50! – will answer today. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5139	To answer the question, the Federal Minister for Education, Science and Culture has reported itself. Your speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5161	Mr President. High house! Education, science and research are the main foundations for the development of a society. That is why the Austrian Federal Government focuses on these areas. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One must be directly grateful for the fact that this meeting has been convened, because this is how we can finally represent our continuous educational work, the growth of the budgets and the good conditions in the student-teacher field and in the universities. However – and I say that right at the beginning – there is still much to do. There are still many challenges, and this is good because the Austrian Federal Government is facing these challenges and will continue to consider education, science and research as its focus. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have, of course, looked at the words and press articles of the last few days very carefully. Ladies and gentlemen, I say to you: The school world, the university world looks different than the green-red community always wants to make us know! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That is why I would first like to give a brief insight into the school sector, into the university area and also to make some clarifications from Mr Klubobmann's Dr. Van der Bellen at the outset. He complained that too few went to secondary schools. – Ladies and gentlemen! Over the last ten years, we have more than 30,000 pupils in the secondary schools, in the upper classes of the gymnasia, in the HTLs. For this we have employed thousands of teachers in the Federal Schools. This is a living educational policy, and it is an educational policy that brings something to young people! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Your calculation – and I will come back to that on your question – regarding future unemployed teachers is a milkmaid bill. Taking the figures of Lower Austria, which are projected on the birth figures alone, and which are to be added to Austria, is a very strange bill, ladies and gentlemen. [[Calls for Greens]] This year we have a birth year of about 79 000. We have 84 000 children as a school starter and school starter in our schools. They are immigrants' children, children of people who work with us who have come with their families. – Your statements make fear and are deeply insecure to the teachers! That, I mean, we shouldn't. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A brief overview shows that the budget for schools increased by 24 percent within 10 years. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, what is that within ten years?- Oh, my God!]] The budget for universities increased by 16 percent within five years. The research budget increased by 53 percent. – Ladies and gentlemen! These are achievements that one must first imitate within an orderly budget. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oils: That's what's eating up inflation!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: 53 percent!]] And if you look at the new OECD study – “Education at a Glance” – you’ll see that we’re excellent in the teacher-student relationship among 30 industrialized countries. In the school sector there is a teacher 14.5 pupils, in the OECD section there are 16.5. [[Abg. Oils: But stop it!]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Look into the classes – and not on your paper!]] In the field of primary school, the lower secondary school we come in Austria to 10 students per teacher, in the OECD section there are 14.3. So we're excellent everywhere. And the average number of students in compulsory school is 20.4. The additional posts – the countries receive 1,700 additional posts to the service posts negotiated by the national leaders with the Minister of Finance – make it possible to set two teachers in many classes, especially in Vienna. In Vienna, on average, two teacher posts are allocated per class. [[Abg. Oils: Oh, that's it?]] [[Abg. Brosz: And one of them is always hiding, isn't it?]] That is to say, it is found with the service posts, but we also know that we need to provide support in addition for the weak students, for the support hours, for day care. And I agreed with the Minister for Finance: Every cent and every euro we need less in the bureaucracy benefits the students! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In recent years, we have not re-occupied over 150 posts in the ministry, but have provided 170 daily care posts. I am pleased when many take care of the day. Thus we will meet the modern working world and the needs of the parents. [[New applause with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oil: 170? 2 150 in day care!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Today the second school package was presented. We immediately tied up a first large school package after the withdrawal of the two-thirds majority. We tied up a second school package today. And if you look at it, then you will see that there is substantial progress in it – I am delighted when our dedicated teachers implement these school packages – from day care to compulsory teacher education, profile education at schools to the conversion of pedagogical academies into pedagogical universities. [[Abg. Oils: A new name!]] A huge step, ladies and gentlemen, an upgrading for our good compulsory school teacher training, an academization of compulsory school teacher training, a tour to the Bologna area, a tour in the tertiary area. We have held the reliable school with the teaching guarantee. We say the school starts on the first Monday in the school year, it ends on the last day of school. We move the whole planning much further forward. Parents can rely on the children to receive the necessary instruction. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us be a little proud of the achievements that are being done in our education area! Let us say what special achievements are provided by the teachers and by the students! We won two bronze medals at the Math Olympics, in which the chemical olympiade won a gold, two silver, one bronze medal. That's not about it! This comes from the dedicated work of our teachers, for which I thank them. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: A Happy Day!]] I could list even more and point out the physics Olympics. We took first place in the EU-Contest Young Scientist Award, a research competition at European level. We have super students who are well cared for by the teachers. [[Abg. Oillinger:... the song contest also!]] Did you know that we were one of the first to start in the first class of folk school with a foreign language? Did you know that we have around 450 schools in which there are bilingual lessons in which our good teachers teach in a foreign language? Did you know that we are at the forefront of adult education in Europe? These are achievements that we can be proud of! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Is that your text?]] But – and I say it quite clearly – there is still much to do. That is why we also immediately introduced after the PISA study “Readfit” and have particularly supported reading support in schools, with financial resources, with means of training and also through trained teachers. It's the same way it's at the universities. We've created a new university law – you don't like it, I know. Because those who are really structurally conservative are you. We're progressive. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have done a lot to the universities, and I thank all those who have accepted these challenges with courage and commitment. We will continue our efforts. I now come to answer your questions. Question 1: I have already mentioned educational expenditure in Austria: plus 24 per cent in the school sector, plus 16 per cent in the university sector, plus 53 per cent in the research sector. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillingers: Please add the inflation rate, then a minute comes out!]] Schools and universities are not broken down, schools and universities are at the heart of the work of the Austrian Federal Government. Take a look at this in the OECD study you all have! Primary education: Expenditure in Austria per adult student $7 015, OECD track $5 300. Primary schools, secondary school: Austria $880, OECD Section $7 000. Tertiary: Austrian expenditure 12 400$, OECD section 10 600 $. That's the difference, and this difference makes us sure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: That's where you count the teachers' pensions for this!]] I note, therefore, that there can be no talk of cutbacks, and we will continue to invest money in schools, in universities, in colleges where the budgets have been multiplied. That's our concern. Question 2 – and this question bothers me, ladies and gentlemen: “How many unemployed teachers do you buy?” – I mean, that’s an assumption. [[Abg. Neugebauer: “Superb” style!]] I'm not buying any unemployed people. [[Abg. Oils: But! We just remember!]] That is why the Austrian Federal Government has attached a large labour market package at its last meeting on the subject of post-qualification, which is about re-qualifying, re-qualifying and re-qualifying people by means of combined wages and similar measures. For this we have provided € 280 million. [[Abg. Oillinger: A post-qualification for freshly qualified teachers?]] I say to you: We will always need teachers, because those of you who really understand something about the school know that the fluctuations in the teacher sector are very large, that we have frequent changes and that teachers are very much in demand in many professions. I only yesterday experienced a book presentation by a teacher who taught at a folk school, at a gymnasium and has now become a book author. He has become an artist. He has developed his artistic skills further. There are a lot of teachers in different fields of work. Ladies and gentlemen, being a teacher is a vocation. And I'll tell you: Whoever really follows with the body and soul of this vocation will also get a place at a school, we will take care of it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] On Question 3, on the PISA study, which we take very seriously: I have already taken the first PISA study very seriously. We have started a big reading action, and we have tested the children now. [[Abg. Oils: Yes, you have read aloud, read from the leaf!]] We have had a reading support for those children who are weaker in reading, and we start in the public school, because the cultural techniques of reading, calculating, writing must be founded in the public school. And the children have to be able to do it in German. That is why we started the “early language promotion in the kindergarten”. But: We're not responsible for kindergartens at all. The communities are responsible, the countries are responsible, but nevertheless we support the groups in which the children learn German, with 80 € per child. This is a nice promotion for the communities, for the municipalities, and this early promotion will provide the basis for the children to learn the cultural techniques in school as well. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In our School Package II, we have defined the language classes we set up when children come across if they can't get German. Reading promotion is a very big concern and you will see that reading promotion takes effect. Just one more thing: The question of illiteracy is a very, very delicate question concerning society as a whole. Doing a study – I don't know how it can work. And painting horror numbers on the wall is the completely wrong way. Helping the illiterate succeeds only if we are very attentive in the interpersonal field, if every service provider, if he notices something, is interested in it and looks at it: Why doesn't my servant write anything? when teachers in school look at why the parents don't apologize or why the parents say they don't have the glasses to read something. And there must be with great sensitivity and sensitivity to help these people, because they are ashamed. [[Abg. Reheis: Insensitivity in 30 students?- Oh, my God!]] And no one goes where “alphabetization course” stands, because he does not want his weakness to become known to the public. And I'll tell you something, too. There's no illiteracy coming from school! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We have therefore put in place numerous measures to compensate for and recover any deficits. [[Abg. Reheis: Is everything great anyway!]] Question 4, Academic quota: It is required to increase the number of places of study from 200 000 to 300 000. Do you really want to make such a forced management, a plan economy as was usual in the old Eastern block? People are going to have to rehabilitate and say they have to occupy the places now? So far, all those who wanted to study and were able to study the conditions were admitted to the universities. We now have a problem in the medical field. – We will solve this problem together with the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen. We're on the right track. I have the agreement of President Barroso that we are dealing with this problem in a working group with the Commission – and this working group has already been installed. Another thing: The academic rate is the number of academics in the professional life in Austria, persons living in Austria. There, the academics we train who are grateful to God for seeing mobility and going to other countries that have excellent training are not counted at all! Please note! [[Abg. Oillingers: Because they get so little paid at the university!]] In other countries, the kindergarten profession is an academic profession, the nurse is an academic profession, the x-ray assistant is an academic profession. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: That's good!]] We have our good vocational education schools, which bring very well-trained young people into working life, but which are not at academic level. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have to talk about whether we want to academicise all professions. We will have to talk about it with the congregations and with those who will then have to pay the salaries. However, the academic rate has increased continuously in recent years. I hope you took this from the study. Now I come to question 5, ladies and gentlemen, and there is a statement in it which I reject: “How should the low number of students be increased if you introduce university access restrictions at the same time?” I do not introduce any university access restrictions, ladies and gentlemen. We have more students, we have more graduates, we have more doctoral students. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If you really want to introduce university access restrictions, it is clear from an article in the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’, which calls for Mr Broukal to introduce centrally coordinated, objective and comprehensible university reception criteria. [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] – So you want to introduce these university access criteria! Austrian education policy is a future education policy. We will continue to ensure that there is less centralism and more autonomy in the future. We will continue in the future to ensure that the talented are particularly encouraged and that the weaker are particularly supported. And I personally will ensure that in the next few years there will be a good budget for universities, a good budget for schools and a good budget for research. - That's our program.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5652	The next speaker was Mrs Dr Glawischnig-Piesczek. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5674	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is remarkable, with what inflexibility, what self-righteousness and what satisfaction you, Mrs. Federal Minister, always represent the educational situation in Austria in the most rosy colors and pretend there were no problems at all. If one would formulate this in a way, then one would say that is stubbornness and that is, above all, the inability to see the problems, to perceive them and to solve them. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They sit down and say: Everything's fine! Education policy is important to this federal government, and we continue to do so. – This sounds like a dangerous threat, both for the students and for the students in Austria. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] They have their own way of solving the problems that are now at the table. When the PISA study has been discussed in Austria, critically discussed, you have spent a few months denying the results. Then there was the assignment to an expert commission that should prove that there is no such problem at all. I mean, you should think about what these OECD studies are all about. They are not meant for us to deny or say the results, that's not true, but they're actually meant as assistance, as a guide, as a guide for a country so that you can orient yourself: How is it going in other countries? What education systems do other countries have? How can you get better here? – This is the meaning of these OECD comparisons. You obviously didn't understand that at all. You constantly compare with those who are worse, you ignore the numbers, and by the way, you always bring some absolute comparisons that have nothing to do with the real relative comparisons at all. This brings us to the real relative comparisons, which say how high educational expenditure is actually in Austria. In addition to Ireland, Austria has the biggest drop in the educational budget in terms of expenditure on education, and that is terrifying! If you look at this in comparison to your time of government, you will find another terrifying picture. Since 1995, she has been a minister of education, that is, responsible for the students – and since 2000 for the students. While in 1997 6 percent of gross domestic product was spent on education, in 2002 it was only 5.4 percent, and now we are even below this figure and thus below OECD average. This means that on average we spend less on education than on other OECD countries. They say: Education policy is important to us, and we continue to do so! – If you continue this saving course, do not reverse this trend, you will continue to halve the education budget over the next ten years. And I think you can only say no to this course in Austria: no, thank you! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Since 2000, you have been responsible for the universities. You have actually managed – and here I quote a comment from the magazine “profile” – to make a free study for everyone a pay study for some, and that without any educational policy concept, without a plan, and you represent the development that has now taken place as a higher violence. Already at the time of Austria's accession to the European Union, it was clear that the current free access to higher education in this form can be difficult to maintain. The warnings have continued, have been constantly overlooked, no one has taken this seriously until the start of the actual procedure before the European Court of Justice. You then, when the judgment was given, said: There will be no attack on German students in Austria. But now there is the situation that German students can study as Austrians, but Austrian students cannot study as other Austrians, and that is an unsustainable condition. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Why Grab hold Don't you like the idea of expanding the total number of higher education places and simply providing more places to study? – We have often discussed the Austrian key figures. Why is this for You don't have a possible common way out if you say: Education policy is important to us, that has priority for us! to increase the number of places to study so that all Austrians who want to study can actually study? I ask you: Where's the problem here? I also ask you about the background to how you spend money elsewhere in the budget. Why is it not a problem for the so-called increase in the investment premium which the Minister of Finance has assessed with a tax loss of € 250 million, but which at once accounts for € 850 million, and that two years in a row? Why is that not a problem at all? Then why is it a problem to make €170 million more available to universities? - I don't understand! Where's the problem? Why can't you take money in terms of making the future easier for nearly 700 000 people who have completed their studies over a period of five years? What's your counter-argument? [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] What is a counter-argument for using the favor of the hour and this historical window – the decline of the number of students – to increase the number of support teachers, more integration teachers, more Psychogists, more professionals who care for legathenia, to adjust writing and reading weaknesses, to take money into their hands and to put more funding measures? What is the reasonable counter-argument against this? They say: I'm sure illiterate people don't come from school. – There has been compulsory education since Maria Theresia! Then where do they come from? Where, then, do these 20 percent of 15-year-olds come from who cannot read meaningfully? [[Federal Minister Gehrer: These are not illiterate people!]] Where did they come from? Do they fall from heaven? I don't know why you can't give a reasonable answer to these problems and why you can't take up our proposals, why you can't really discuss them either. We do not want to misrepresent the educational location here, but we want a solution to this number of young people who are restricted in working life, but also in cultural life, in their social expression. There is nothing worse than not being able to read and write or to be able to read meaningfully! This not only hinders these people dramatically in the labour market, but also prevents them from participating in any cultural and social life. – That you make yourself here and say: It's all right, and we're continuing as before, is actually a real threat to these people. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Christian Rainer of “profile” writes in a comment very ironic: That doesn't matter, it's not just about the present, it's about the future of the country. This ironic sentence also describes your access. You have been active in education for ten years, and my impression – especially in the last five years, since you have also been responsible for universities – is that you are significantly blocking and not shaping in this area, simply blocking, pursuing a savings course that is completely wrong in place. At the universities, one has now reached the point of abandonment. I do not know what this has to do with an educational approach. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: The deer is the deer!]] Let me once again present our ideas – they are a real alternative – and ask you, Mrs Federal Minister, also the following speakers, to address these arguments and these proposals seriously and to say why you do not want to do so. I would like to present our motion for a resolution in its essential key points. As you say that education policy is important and should continue to be important, I ask you: Why don't we also adjust our education budget to the rising gross domestic product and stay at the level we had in 2000? Why don't you really take the missing money into your hands? What is a serious counter-argument? Why not use this historical window and instead of saving, use more funding teachers? Is it really necessary for parents to spend 170 million shillings per year for follow-up hours, because there are so serious shortcomings in the school system because they lack capacity to promote to help individually support? And why is it not possible at the same time to link a package against this mass unemployment? Why can't you hit two flies with a flap? Why is it not possible to increase the number of study places? What prevents us from slipping further in the international comparison, but one step forward? What prevents you from seriously attacking the academic rate, not just by means of mathematical tricks, such as adding to the pedaks or the like? Is it not a problem for you to remain behind countries like Mexico or behind countries like Greece, even behind almost all EU-15 countries in the OECD section? [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: You have called for an academic education in the public school sector! Now we do that, and now it's not right again!]] I don't understand that that's not a warning signal for you. They have long made great promises, especially to universities, for example the 500 preferential professorships. Why is it not possible at last to upgrade these positions so that these professorships can be established? Why is it not possible to maintain this large-scale education policy concept, according to which there is free access to higher education, free of charge, i.e. a concept that can also create more equality in society, with a larger budget and free access to universities in Austria through a genuine package of measures, which provides for an increase to 300 000 places of study? I'm waiting for arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5793	I announce that the motion for a resolution by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek, which has just been presented by Mrs Van der Bellen, has been submitted in writing and is sufficiently supported by Mrs Glawischnig-Piesczek in his key points. He is in the process of negotiation and is in accordance with § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be duplicated and distributed. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5903	The next speaker is Mr Amon. Speech time: 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e5924	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! You know, Mrs. Glavischnig, what I can hardly understand is if you say that relative ratios make a better statement than absolute numbers, according to the motto: Three hairs on the head are relatively little, three hairs in the soup are relatively much. This is a green logic that I cannot understand at the best of will. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig, talk to teachers once and hear what they tell you when, as is sometimes quite common in international statistics, we rely exclusively on the average number of school students. This is precisely the relative ratio, which is compared internationally and where Austria is in the forefront, ladies and gentlemen! This is the truth and nothing else! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] But if you look at the absolute numbers, you will notice that we have, of course, classes in which this number is far exceeded. – So why a relative ratio should have a higher power of statement than an absolute, that is not understandable to me at best. A second is not understandable to me, ladies and gentlemen. Professor Van der Bellen, you said the ÖVP is asleep today and doesn't listen to you. I would like to return this statement to the extent that you sometimes feel that you have not followed the educational debates of recent years at all. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Reality! Reality, please!]] For it is simply and simply not true, Professor Van der Bellen, that we have not dealt intensively with the results of the PISA study. It is simply the truth, Professor Van der Bellen, that at the time of the first PISA study, when we were not in the last third, we had a relatively good cut-off of the results in the first third, we started an intensive work. [[Abg. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] It was Federal Minister Elisabeth Gehrer who at the time set up the Future Commission to determine what measures are necessary. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I have thought the Greens were a constructive force for a long time, but I do not understand at the best of my will how children and young people in such a mood, which is fulfilled by the fact that they are always saying that they are sitting in the worst of all schools and are being trained by teachers who have experienced too little in education, how children and young people can learn successfully and constructively in such a description of the Austrian education system. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: You say that – not us!]] I can't understand. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] By the way, the students see this a little different. For example, if you take the study of the World Health Organization to hand, you will find that there is a high satisfaction of the students with the situation in the Austrian schools. And even if you look at the results of the last student representation elections, you will find that not those student representatives, such as the action of critical students, have won the elections that have misrepresented the entire education system, but they were the student representatives of the student union. I would like to congratulate the new Federal School speaker Istvan Deli very warmly on his choice, which has failed in a clear way. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] If I have been to absolute figures before, I would like to say one thing, and this is also clear from the study “Education at a Glance – Education at a Glance” If you look at what is spent in Austria per capita on education, taking all the areas together, both for universities and for school education at all levels, then [[the speaker presents a desk with a bar chart on the speaker's desk]] They note that Austria is fifth among all OECD countries with its educational expenditure per capita. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, what country do you live in if you are constantly talking about breaking up the education system?- Oh, my God! [[The speaker explains his statements by means of the display panel.]] - This is Austria. Do you know where Finland is? Here, far below the OECD average, is Finland, ladies and gentlemen. That is to say, it is not about money, but there is a wealth of measures to be taken to further develop the Austrian education system in a positive sense – and that is exactly what is done by the Minister of Education Elisabeth Gehrer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If you demand that the declining numbers of students should be used to make more money available to the education system, I will tell you: That's what we do, ladies and gentlemen. It was Minister of Education Elisabeth Gehrer, who not only ensured that not only the number of teachers/students in the financial balance is used as the basis for the educational budget but also additional € 12 million for individual support, for measures in the area of integration. And it would be a mistake to acknowledge this and also to say, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, it is also a question of responsibility to deal with these additional funds and resources. Waltraud Klasnic, for example, in the Styria, uses these additional resources to implement the model of the Styrian daily school, where there is a comprehensive individual care for students on a voluntary basis. [[the speaker fastens a green plaque with the label “yes to the Styria” on its revers]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] That is to assume responsibility – and not to lament the education system! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] In Vienna this looks quite different, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Riepl: Better! Much better!]] In fact, in Vienna you have the largest share, most of the additives available, alone: You don't care, ladies and gentlemen. In Vienna more than two teachers come to each class – there we are again with ratio numbers, Dr. Glawischnig – and you all the time regret that you do not get through with the money and with the funds in Vienna. I'll tell you one thing: All other federal states together would be happy if they had available what Vienna always has at its disposal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And then the demand for a reduction in the number of students, Professor Van der Bellen: They seem to have missed the last National Council meeting on Education. We have already decided on a motion for a resolution which calls for us to look very closely at this, because it is not that simple. [[Abg. Sburny: “the one asking us to look at this ”!]] A general reduction in the number of students does not solve all the problems we have, but it is also a question of looking very closely at where such a reduction is useful. The Finns, for example, don't know anything like this at all: There is no maximum number of students in Finland, there are no divisional numbers. They decide this completely autonomously at the schools and on average, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, by the way, have a worse teacher/student ratio than we have in Austria. And one last thing I would like to say, because, among other things, that brutal incident at a school is also a little occasion for it, and one should not ignore it either. I believe, however, that all of us here are invited to ensure that such incidents do not happen. It is not enough to leave teachers alone with this problem, but it starts in the parents' house, and that goes very far. I would like to point out an example here – I do not call the company, but I think you should look at it critically –: I've got a catalogue here that's about snowboard dress. [[The speaker shows a catalogue.]] It is an Austrian company, an Austrian company that represents violent scenes with machine guns. Violence scenes are shown at schools where the blood only sprays. – I think this is extremely problematic, and I will personally also contact this company, so that such advertising does not take place. What I want to say is: This is a social task! It is not the task of a single teacher, school location or school psychology in the Ministry of Education. [[Abg. Scheibner: That's it, too! Also!]] This is a general social responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, which we should at least be aware of. Let's not talk about the education system as a whole! I believe that we do not do a good job for the education system, the Austrian universities, but also for the good dual vocational training if we are constantly talking only about academicism. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Mr President, I come to the conclusion. – If you are today looking at those countries that are in front of us in the PISA study, such as Finland, like Korea, like Taiwan, then you will find that these are talking today about introducing a vocational education system because they no longer know where to go with the many academics.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6167	Mr Gusenbauer has now come to speak. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6188	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! If you look at how the Austrian education system is judged in international studies, there are two possible approaches: One deals with this status, whether he is a good witness or a bad witness, or one has access to the selective perception as the Mrs. Federal Minister has, and always takes an international study if she is good for her – and if there is a bad witness, then this study is either worthless or unscientific or not legitimate. It is precisely this kind of perception that the Federal Minister has for some time simply ignored all the problems that the Austrian school and education system has had: for everyone who finds any maladministration – whether it be a Member of the High House, whether it be the Future Commission, an international institution or the affected teachers, students or parents – who “is wrong”! Mrs Gehrer's objective is to: No one leaving an Austrian school should be smarter than themselves! – This is obviously the primacy of their policy! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Grünewald.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: Very “holy”!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have the impression that with this bar we will not face the international challenges, because we must be interested in the possibility that... – Your volume will not help you either. [[Abg. Neugebauer: Very “holy”!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] It does not solve any problem, by the way, Mr President. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Last-class!]] [[Abg. Neudeck:...training is a free space!]] If we want to face the international challenges, we need to see that our children and young people are as well qualified as possible, and this begins with the recognition of the problems. Mrs. Federal Minister, I do not know if you are going to attend universities, but if I listen to you, I have to tell you that it is unbearable for many students in that country to have any exercises or courses every day, to be offered for courses, to have no access to certain studies, to sit in overcrowded audiences, to have no adequate support at the universities – and then to listen to what you say about the Austrian universities. This is an increase of students in this country, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] And then, to talk about being “pityed ” here! I mean, go to schools and talk to the teachers! Every school you come to is always the same: that the first thing with the accompanying and assistant teachers was shortened, that the maximum number of students each year rose, that the teaching became increasingly difficult, increasingly demanding, and that the educational and financial resources available were getting less and less. But obviously you decide to selective deafness if You go through the Austrian schools that you do not want to hear this inventory of teachers. I'm telling you, with this kind of thing, always going here and saying: Everything wonderful!, proposals of the Future Commission all fulfilled, except one!, and: World-class universities!, and at all: The reorganisation of pedagogical academies – world-class level!, this has nothing to do with reality. You talk into a world of light that has nothing to do with the reality of the students, schools and universities, and we have to put you in the House so that you can finally get a look at reality, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They say, by the way, that it is not about the technical skills – that was a very interesting expression at all today – it is about the holistic education of children and young people. – Well, how holistic education has worked with you, I have been able to read today in the “Small Newspaper”. When an editor faced you with misunderstandings in the Austrian education system, your answer was: “Paperlap”! – So the new line of the Federal Minister is obviously the “Paperlapapp” pedagogy: that wherever criticism is practiced, “Paperlapapp” is said to do so. A highly intellectual debate for a Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] So if the pupils in our country were to take an example, I would be surprised if at some point they had a chance to find a place at a higher school in the intended selection mechanisms. If you already say it's not a problem anyway – even the PISA study, which says that every fifth child aged 15 is a risk group: everything isn't true! – then I ask you: Are you actually talking about each other in the Federal Government? Are you talking? . I only read in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten” that at the opening of the Ried District Court, your colleague, the Minister of Justice, pointed out that dozens of those who were offered 250 were not employed in spite of the lack of teaching places, and she said: “We would like to welcome more young people,”... “To this end, however, we need to train at schools better so that teachers’ seekers can also read, write and calculate,” said the Minister, “the Federal Minister, I would say that you are talking once in the Federal Government about how the level of 15-year-olds applying for teaching places in the field of justice is, for it is obvious that every fifth child who comes out of school has problems and then it is extremely difficult to find a teaching place, even in the public service. [[Rejoicing with representatives of the SPÖ.]] We have heard of you for ten years now, and I tell you: The teachers, the parents and the students have enough of it, and that is right! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Therefore, it is perfectly legitimate when social democracy, the Greens, the Future Commission, all experts in this country demand that we finally come to a change in education policy. And this urgently requires the following: Firstly, a larger full-day offer. [[Abg. Großruck: The whole day school! He wants all day school!]] I do not want to argue with you about whether it is a full day school or a full day care or whatever, but the parents say because of the need, we need 180 000 additional places in Austria so that parents can choose to have the option at all. What we also urgently need is that there is the individual promotion of talent – and there are only those when the classes become smaller. What we urgently need is, of course, more money for the universities so that it is a study and not a lottery game. What we urgently need is a new motivation for the teachers, because you can't tell me that they are all so happy when they observe the early retirement offers at 50, 51, 52 or 53 years. They all go to the early board because they have a burnout syndrome and because they have enough of this ejaculation of the education system! And it is precisely that that is something to change when it comes to our children and young people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, it is right for you to take action against the rising aggression in schools. But you also have to be ready to see the causes. Dr. Max Friedrich pointed out yesterday that the rising aggression sometimes has to do with the lack of prospects for young people, including the increasing youth unemployment, and that it also has to do with lack of psychological advice and care. I am very much in favour of deciding what Mr Amon has said, but only then should it be done, Mrs Federal Minister, for one thing I say: When there was the amok race in the Lower Austrian Twelve eight years ago, you promised that five additional school psychologists will be used in Lower Austria alone, so that something can be done here. Do you know how many more have been given? - Not one! Therefore, whenever there is a sad occasion, it makes no sense to say what will be done – and until the next sad occasion, nothing will be done. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Education policy is too important to continue to undergo this kind of beautiful speech, as you do, Mrs Federal Minister. You've had time for ten years. We've been hearing from you the same statements for ten years. I am not prepared to note that our children and young people are still exposed to this non-education policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6337	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Dr. Bleckmann speaking. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6358	Mr President. Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Dr. Gusenbauer, let me start like this: I have actually seen and met you so far as you are very polite, intelligent social democrats. [[Abg. Grandruck: Who?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He is still polite!]] Well, if we've listened exactly only because someone's not academic to accuse him or her that he/she is unable to hold a position in this our country, that's immense! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great!]] [[New calls from the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Awesome! Horror]] That's what you've done, and that's disgusting! Lower drawer is that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But now I understand why you're sending your child to an elite school: In order that your child may be more capable than others later, as a social democrat, you here blame that they cannot exercise certain things just because they are not academics. [[Abg. May. Worm:... Shottingymnasium! Where did you go?]] So I mean, that's... – I can't find words right away because I thought I didn't hear what you said. [[Abg. Großruck: He even pays school money for it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Ten years...!]] Yes, then we come to your “ten years”, because no one here in this house – from our side – closes the ears before reality, but you seem to close your eyes and ears before the past. They seem to forget that, of these ten years, you have been involved in education policy for five years, if not many years. You forget that you were in a government, where you really were something important... – You as a person are not, just your party! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] It is not you as a Social Democratic Party, but your party, of these ten years, has played a significant role for five years. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Which party do you belong to?]] That's past-making, child-moving, what you're doing. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Which party do you belong to? Do you know which party you belong to?]] That's not right either, because you should also confess that you've been making things up here for years. But you're forgetting that now. Although you want to shape the future, in the past you have done what we have in the past, you should consider that too! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Do you know which party you belong to?]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... long-term memory!]] We all know that there are always opportunities for improvement in the education system, but after all, no one of us in school had in all subjects, but only in the subjects where one was worse. And there are also areas in which Austria is good, in spite of your policy, which you made decades and years ago, and it is now the case that Austria has done a lot really well here. There is a need to catch up where for decades you have not been able to drop the two-thirds majority. There is a great need for rethinking, because you have prevented that from happening so far. At last it is possible to bring about real improvements, and we will do so step by step, but we cannot improve from one day to the next all that has been done in decades of wrong, missing policy. Now let me come to the university law. The University Law 2002 was also a great achievement: This made one of the biggest changes in the Austrian university system, because the universities now have autonomy. There are open balance sheets for the first time, there are the first financial statements, the development plans are being completed. A lot has happened! The universities are really on their way to independence and that they also think a little more entrepreneurial. This is a good course and this is a real course that has been taken here and has been introduced. Now we come to the conditions of access and to what the EU has put us in. If you had already established in 1994, before joining the EU, where your party has significantly cooperated, that the EU will have the opportunity, if there are inflows from other countries that pay the other countries! This would have been a possibility if one had been active here in good time. But that's all going to be forgotten. Even if we look at today's situation, the ÖH has not seen what will be a mass storm, because the representatives of the ÖH themselves have said that it is only coffee study, if you fear a mass storm here, that there will be no more than 100, 200 candidates. Now, in view of the present situation, there is more or less silence. The only way out that's seen here is to say: We are unconditional for open university access! – Yes, these are many, but he will not be entirely durable in this form. And it is not enough to criticise and lament if, on the other hand, no solutions and no proposals for solutions are offered for the situation which is currently very difficult for Austrian students. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Now real solution competence is needed! [[Deputies Broukal and Dr Niederwieser nod.]] And there are now several possibilities here for everyone to be tested, which we could examine quickly and quickly and – as I see an acceptable nick here – perhaps together. But first of all, the EU needs to think about solutions. We have already decided in a resolution – unfortunately only the government groups, although I know that individuals among you are in favour – that there must be discussions at EU level on how to find a solution. In the meantime, too, Belgium has been considering this problem, and Brussels, perhaps also preferring national laws in this area. A kind of educational financial compensation would also be a way of paying students from the country of origin. But this is one thing that needs to be dealt with at EU level. A second possibility would be to try, as in Belgium, to link the permit to stay: Those who are longer in the country will also have the opportunity to study. – Belgium is trying it at five years of stay, but so far it has not been very successful. In any case, it is a possibility to examine in detail. The same applies to a third point, namely that foreign students who study with us are obliged to a practice, but also to stay with us in the country – if this possibility exists – so that in the future we do not have a lack of medical education and we do not have a shortage in health care. So this is also a possibility to examine. And a fourth proposal – that is also the proposal of the BZÖ – is to introduce a university check for maturants. On the one hand, the tuition fees for all students, including foreign students, are to be increased from €380 to €5 000, so that foreign students, so to speak, finance their own studies. On the other hand, every Austrian maturant is sent to the university check after graduation of the Matura, which he can then redeem or not – if he does not study, then not, but if he is studying, he can redeem him. With this check of €4,620, he only has to pay the current study fee. This is a national promotion that must be possible! A country must be allowed to say: We are promoting our masters on a tax-technical, family-technical level, so that we can get more academics, because that's what we all want together! This would also help us in this statistics, there would be a promotion for our maturants, on the other hand foreign students would be deterred and there would also be additional revenue for universities. With all this, we could be able to guarantee our students better conditions of study and that they really have the opportunity to study. I think this is a matter to be examined that we need to examine quickly and quickly so that we can quickly improve our education system for our masters, for the students, but also for the students. But I also ask everyone to go through these possibilities with a measure and objective of good testing. We should come to a solution as quickly as possible so that we enable students to study well.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6563	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Schweitzer. 8 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6585	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am very grateful to Mr Bleckmann for returning to the subject matter and for making some proposals on how to improve a lot. [[Abg. Scheibner: The first really!]] I am very surprised when a party chairman like Mr. Gusenbauer, who certainly knows what happened in recent years and does not happen, who can well remember the time when his party was still sitting in this Federal Government, gives such a thing of itself. Mr Gusenbauer! I've been thinking about it for a long time, but I don't think of anything that's left as a really big reform of this time. [[Don't call the SPÖ:Gar nothing?]] [[Rejoicing at the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Heinzl: Surprise!]] At the time, they put a stop to the programme, especially in education policy, because nothing has gone further with the two-thirds majority needed at the time. [[Abg. Arbitrator: This is unworthy of a member of the government, this polemic!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is not a polemic!]] Mr Schieder, this Federal Government has the following successes: [[Abg. Arbitrator:... polemically!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You can still criticize the Scholten, also from the government!]] The century-old work of the university reform, the annual work-time model for compulsory school teachers, the abolition of the two-thirds majority, Mr. Schieder, and now, recently, the School Package I; now also the School Package II is going into the implementation phase – great reforms made within a very short time by this federal government, which were urgently needed and our system greatly improved. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Such a polemic does not belong!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen! It is not enough, Mr Klubobmann Van der Bellen, if you step under the arm to the speaker's mouth and then carry it back in. This study should also be read, and the developments clearly recorded in this study should also be presented. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: Let go?- Oh, my God!]] I did that, I wrote out the ten most important results. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: The Ten Best!]] The Austrian level of education is clearly one of the highest in this OECD comparison. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: How long?]] Austria invests in education – and that is something you always scribble so much – a lot of money. In this respect, according to this study, we are in place 5 and have improved in recent years, Mr Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Brosz: Worse!]] They know that, in this study, we have a good care system and a very good care situation. We have a teacher-student ratio, which is far better both in primary and secondary education than in the other OECD countries studied. You know that Austria's students receive much more education than the students in other countries studied in this report. We have more than 113 hours per year than the OECD section shows, Professor Van der Bellen. All these are facts that you just don't come by! In terms of participation of young people in training, there is an increase of six places in total: 94.4 percent of the 15 to 19-year-olds, Professor Van der Bellen, are in education in Austria. The dual training system is one of the best at all, and it is also mentioned in this report. Austria is in 1st place with further training: 89 percent of all Austrians participate in further training courses. You mentioned the academic rate, Professor. You could have read that, too, if you had looked in. When the SPÖ was still in government responsibility, namely in 1999, it was actually so that our academic rate was 11 percent. Meanwhile, there is that God is grateful, another government constellation. And, Professor, you have forgotten to mention that within this short period the academic rate could be increased to 15 percent. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, you have... renamed!]] Do you really want to blame this federal government, which has managed to increase the academic rate by almost a third within the shortest time, now that it is also responsible for that time in which it has not yet had any responsibility? [[Abg. Oil: Yes, statistically!]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer leaves his seat.]] Mr Gusenbauer, who now prefers to move from there because he sees that government policy did not go so well for education at the time. He should remember that once! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is a matter, ladies and gentlemen: 4-percent increase in the academic rate within the shortest time! Let's still look at the graduates at the universities! They rise by 34 percent, Professor Van der Bellen. [[Abg. Brosz: From when to when?]] Increase in graduates by 34 percent in four years: from 17 144 people still in 1999/2000 to 23 198 graduates in 2003/2004 at universities and colleges. – Yes, Professor Van der Bellen, these are all numbers that prove that what you are sorry for here is not true. On the contrary, there are very positive developments here! You just need to read in. Getting around is too little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on another subject, namely violence in our schools. It has already been addressed, and I think it is important that you deal with it. In this regard, Mrs Federal Minister, it is true that we have dealt with this issue primarily in the analysis. We have empirical analyses of violent phenomena in schools. However, I believe that we are now trying to develop preventive rates, and I agree to make a contribution to this because I believe that this is a very good approach. Students who are excluded, who have little recognition of fellow students suffering from strong competition, come in outside positions, and thus are encouraged by violence; that is obvious. It is also clear that not only the family environment, but above all also the school is contributing to the development of this phenomenon of violence, and therefore it is also school measures which are linked to great prospects for success in fighting this phenomenon. It is scientifically proven many times, ladies and gentlemen, that there are sports-related offers, which are often the only means of reaching the male youth in particular. That is why it is important to me that we together consider giving sport a greater priority in school. Aggressions and motor power can be processed by sport controlled, and the possibility of positive use of existing physical skills will be created. By a familiar activity, threshold fears about the other offer can be reduced, and young people who otherwise have no success experiences can gain success here, they can do something with each other! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] I therefore believe that it is necessary that we really think seriously about whether it is not important to bring the daily movement unit to our schools. Many of the problems we have today could be in the past if we bring more movement to schools!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6854	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6886	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr State Secretary! High house! Do not be angry with me, Mrs. Federal Minister, if I bring a quote from today’s “Small Newspaper”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: This has already made cast builders!]] In this, you will be quoted with: ‘Paperlapapp, Misers have no.’ And you wouldn't be impressed by the cries of the opposition. [[Call the ÖVP: She's right!]] It is then difficult to discuss it, because first of all there is no screaming and second there is not only the blind at the university who do not know the truth or want to see it. [[Abg. Neudeck: Have you read the “Small Newspaper” before or after Gusenbauer?]] If you’re with us “spie, nail on the wall, we’re the most beautiful in the whole country! We know everything, we understand everything and everyone else want to play blind or screams or noises!", at least you can’t extend it to OECD, because these are international educational data that, despite certain difficulties, best international comparisons. And if you prescribed Uni's competition, competition, evaluation, then I would already be grateful, you would once have your own concepts or yourself an evaluation, but at least a simple, simple reflection: What's going on at the university? And: Why do we take this partly embarrassing order within the OECD? The reason why the OECD operates with relative numbers and not with absolute ones is that they are not blind there because they are not noises because there are scientists there! And, Mr Amon, I'm doing it quite simply now – I'm not talking about hair and soups, but let's take the following example: A high bank official earns €5,000 and gives his family €3,000. He is transported away from another bank, then earns €10,000 and gives his family €3100. – You will then say: Super, he gave his family 100 € more! But that he deserves the double and that this is less percent, you forget! [[Abg. Großruck: The question is what his family needs!]] But I didn't think I had to bring such folk schools here to make it clear that the share of education and research expenditure on gross domestic product is something – as the OECD says – which reflects the appreciation of a state and a government for universities, schools and education at all. However, I do not see anything of this appreciation at all if you simply ignore and deny everything. They suggest to defend low academic rates that, for example, for kindergarten pedagogists, the matura is not the starting point and then they study at the university. Don't you know that there aren't even 1000 a year done and that, even if they were at the university, our ranking for statistically nothing or hardly anything would be better? And second: Who prevents you from establishing such an important profession at the university and providing our children with better trained people? - No one! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] This is also the case with nurses mentioned in this article. Do you know that, apart from Austria, we only know another EU country where nurses have no education in the tertiary sector? Who prevents you from putting this into practice? - No human! They say there's no shortage. However, if your party friends at the University of Innsbruck call for a seventh art faculty, but at the same time innovative, partly unique, interdisciplinary subjects such as comparatistics are simply thrown into the basement when, due to lack of money in the field of mental and cultural science, forced baccalaureat studies of several disciplines are simply thrown into a pot, so to speak, the university fast food! And that can't be good, you can't want that! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] In order to reach only the OECD average, we would have to have 50 percent more students, the university budget would have to rise by 1 percent of GDP! – you and grass will say: That's a wish for the Christkind! But I ask you very seriously now, Mrs Bundesminister: Do I have to remind you that not the Christian child, but you bear the responsibility for your place of business? And you'd really have to see this one too! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] And addressed to the ÖVP: Do you know that besides Austria, only one state in Europe, France, has fewer students in 2005 than in 1999? - Oh, that's sausage too! We're the best in the whole country! If you call critics blind and screamers, then I must say that can only be because it seems easier for you to get over your lips than to deal seriously with the university's problems. They make up the educational academies – and this is my final word – universities, but only change a door sign and secure the complete political breakthrough with the help of the five universities – three of them ordered by the head of state or the head of state; and the fifth is the head of state school president! You call that university? - That's label failure! This is a far-reaching opportunity and an ear fig in the face of the youth who is well-trained! There's nothing there! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e6993	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. She also speaks to us for 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7015	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! To my esteemed predecessors: Today we have honoured the life - work of Simon Wiesenthal, who was referred to by Michael Fleischhacker as the “adventure of differentiation. ” I think differentiation and differentiated speech belong not only to academic soil but also to Parliament here! And I'll start with Klubobmann Van der Bellen. PISA is also a cultural comparison. A professor from Finland said: Over 400 years of Luther and bad television program, a well-developed reading culture and few children with migration background – all this means a start-up advantage for PISA. [[Abg. Dr. Grünewald: Yes, should we resort to Protestantism?]] Let us therefore consider the result differentiated! Let us consider it, for example, differentiated with regard to the respective results of the federal states and cities. The follow-up studies on PISA I have shown the major collapse in the major cities in Germany. This can also be said for PISA Austria, for example for Vienna. We have here an evaluation by cities with 1 million inhabitants and more, so everything else except Vienna exudes. Although there are the highest AHS/BHS shares in Vienna, the level in all areas – reading, mathematics, problem solving – is terrifyingly bad. [[Abg. Broukal: But these are federal schools!]] No, there are also primary schools, because this is about the 15 to 16-year-olds. [[Abg. Broukal: You talked about AHS and BHS!]] – A high AHS share! That is, one would have to assume that there are no children here with distinct reading and math difficulties. [[Call the ÖVP: Listen, broukal!]] So: Where you have to assume that better results are achieved, worse people come out! This differentiated thinking would be appropriate. A link, a hint are children with migration background. When I read in today’s “Kurier” that a director of a primary school in the 15th century. District says 90 percent of children are children with non-German mother tongue, I ask: How did these students come to be with non-German mother tongues – or, as a teacher then says, that illiterates still sit in higher classes – there? Why did no one in the Vienna State Schools think about how to facilitate the entry into school of children, school starters, Taferl classics, so that they do not end up as a bad reader and as an inadequate problem solver in the PISA study?- Oh, my God! [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] It is also obvious – as Mrs Bundesminister Gehrer has said – that in addition to the financial compensation, Vienna receives more than an average of additional planning points, namely 700 out of 1,700 additional for dealing with the special problems! Vienna has remained guilty of the answer, what it does with these 700 additional posts, and the teachers do not know how it continues. Should I call you another Vienna result? – If you look at the number of repetitious students, or the school career loss students, as they are mentioned in the statistics: School loss in primary schools: Austria-Slice 0.9 percent; Vienna, superior to all federal states, 2.5 percent! Why has nobody thought about why there is the highest repetitious rate in Vienna in the primary schools? Or in the AHS sub-level: Austria-Slice 3,4; Vienna 4,68 – the highest value all over Austria! Why is there no thought about the conditions in the respective countries? – That’s where I’d put, there’s a need for differentiated thinking. If it's complained that we don't find enough afternoon care in the countries – I'm Viennan, that's why Vienna is very interested in me –: Until a federal school in Vienna all schools have afternoon care, which are 87 including the private. Until this one school there is afternoon care, at the request of the parents and teachers of course not limited, that is, on the morning class, afternoon care with leisure time, learning, fun and so on. In the compulsory schools in Vienna, that is what Vienna is responsible for, of 448 schools, only 134 people and primary schools have an afternoon service, and only one third of them have the non-restricted model, i.e. in the morning class and in the afternoon leisure time, and learning has priority. Yes, there is a need for action, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to add and point out that none of my opposition colleagues' proposals are broukal or others on university access's wishes, namely a central access regulation for all. That is, they want access regulations for all, while not taking into account the need to design an access regulation, an access question in psychology, different from in practice-oriented medical studies. Therefore, I ask the opposition to think about the extent to which there would be no differentiated thinking, serious analyses and careful solutions before they are used in a cynical form in Bausch and Arches – which is now not for Van der Bellen, but above all for cast builders – with the reference to required qualifications and uneducated qualifications in the direction of ministers and students. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] These remarks were therefore unnecessary. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7109	Next, Mr Broukal. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7130	Ladies and gentlemen! I have it because it is really the “spray of the day”, also in writing with “papperlapapp, mister there is none” at the universities. [[the speaker presents a newspaper article with the appropriate title in front of the speaker’s desk]] Who speaks such a thing... [[Abg. Neudeck: So the third time it's not funny!]] What's the third time? – It was unpleasant at the first time, when it was said. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: If there is one...!]] Do you know where it was said? – A newspaper was said to be published in Graz. You know, Graz is the city in which 3,000 young people – many of them from Germany – take the place of study from Austria, because the ministry has slept for years – and 3,000 young students are up to the fact that after a year one hundred of them remain! [[Abg. Neudeck: Is not a gulash that gets better when warming up!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's where the Lord Korinek says...!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The students are fleeing from red-green!]] Would you take an examination of which you know: no matter how well you have learned, the chance that you will get through is thirty to one? In such a city where a thirty-third of the people who start a medical study this year will be at the university next year – the others will be thrown out, no matter how good they are – that's where they say: “Paperlap, mister is that none”? – I believe that this saying will be heard even more often, quite rightly because it is incredible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] “Paperlapapp, mister is not available” – the quote goes on: “That’s what everyone who walks through the unison with open eyes sees.” [[Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer: The Party President...!]] I therefore ask myself: Where does the Federal Minister of Foreign Affairs go through the university? – Neither the green nor the social democratic students have seen them there lately, it must have been at night asleep. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Then, of course, Mrs. Minister also passes the Institute of Eastern European History, which at the moment lets its readers reduce their salary by 50 percent – “Paperlapapp, Miserhe nicht keine”! Robert Etlinger, lecturer for specialist didactics History, writes to his study programme director: At the content of the course nothing has changed, but the payment was reduced by more than a third, from € 1 490 – gross of course – to € 933. Has the payment really been reduced to this extent? Answer of the study programme director Friedrich Edelmayer: Yeah, that's right. It is sad, but meets all teachers in the field of history. – Discounts of the teachers' fees by 50 percent! ‘Paperlap’, there is no crisis. [[Abg. Neudeck: “Miss”!]] Or take the head of the rector Badelt. ==References== September, this is not so long ago, in the “time in the picture” We have partly had to do a personnel reduction that cannot be justified by the care relationships. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] – ‘Paperlap’, there is no crisis. [[Abg. Neudeck: There’s “Misre”! What's now?]] Christoph Steger from Tamsweg in Salzburg sends me two documents: First, the official paper of the Medical University of Innsbruck, taken from the Internet, for registration for medical studies. It says in it: Application period 8. ==References== July. Christoph Steger reported on 11. ==References====External links== September the answer: They were rejected. Reason as follows: “At the time of the post stamp of your application, the study site quota was unfortunately exhausted.” He's coming in on the 11th. ==References====External links== July and a month later get this lapidar sentence! He has asked for a notice because he wants to challenge it; he has not received the notice to this day. – “Paperlapapp, misters don’t exist”. Dr. Mittermier from Bolzano writes to me: I would ask you to address the situation of the many South Tyrol medical students at the plenary meeting tomorrow. They know that, unfortunately, the Medical University of Innsbruck is unable to know when the Matura certificates are issued in South Tyrol, so that all South Tyrol's maturants, who are always studying in Innsbruck, have heard a "taste, crusafer!" since they are unfortunately too late. So a population group, which has always been under the special protection of Austria in recent decades, because the University of Innsbruck is the only German-speaking university in which they can study, is simply excluded! [[Call the SPÖ:Where is Khol?]] But I say to you: ‘Paperlapapp, misters are missing.’ – Want to sleep well!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7300	Mrs Rossmann's next speech. Ladies and gentlemen, five minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7322	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Broukal, you put yourself out of here, but I haven't heard much of you except “Paperlapapp”. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] And I can say that apart from demagogy, you have not explained a single approach to solving this problem. Sage Give us the following: What is the SPÖ solution? What is the solution of the social democratic science speaker to this problem at the universities? [[Abg. Reheis: New elections!]] As a mother, I am concerned myself: My daughter wants to study medicine in Graz, and she's about to face the same problem. She wants to study medicine next autumn and does not know how to do this. [[Abg. May. Worm: But you may bring them in!]] [[Abg. Broukal: And your solution?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] I am telling you a solution; I am not just saying this to you, but I am saying this to my colleagues in this House, and above all I am telling the audiences in front of the television screens: Our Kärntner head of state, who is always a thinker and always finds solutions, even if they are smiled, will find a solution. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ]] Think of the child's money! He's the inventor of child money, even if you don't want to hear it. [[Abg. Brosz: Maybe he should think about it!]] The child money was first realized in Carinthia. They have smiled at us, and the coalition partner has also said that this is impossible to implement, which is a “skull check”. [[Call the SPÖ: Take a seat!]] We have implemented this children's check, as it was called and has now been realized as a child's allowance, in Carinthia first – take note! – and the whole of Austria benefits from it. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] We will also succeed in relation to mineral oil tax. We lowered the penalty by 25 percent: 15 percent this year and 10 percent from 1. January 2006. [[Abg. Reheis:... who pays!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] – I know you don't want to hear all this! Now on the proposals; you have also smiled at that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] If, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, Transport Minister Gorbach wants to lock up the mailbox tanks, your red trade unionists stand there and prevent that! [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We say this to people outside; they are all supposed to hear that the Social Democrats are preventers and that trade unionists only protect their trade union, but do not want to give the people – even the trade union colleagues – more favourable petrol. However, we will achieve this by the coalition parties – and you will be laughed by the SPÖ! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Now I come to the proposal I have just referred to. Carinthian head of state Dr. Jörg Haider has presented a solution for these actual miser at the universities, namely that for all students – whether Austrians or EU citizens – the study fee for the first semester is increased from €380 to €5 000. This would create a restriction, but I say straight away: To compensate for this, there should be an educational, university check of €4,620 for the Austrian students. This, ladies and gentlemen, would be the solution for our students to receive €4,620 at the beginning of their studies in the form of a university check and thus more easily receive a study place. The redemption of this check should be done within the framework of the initial inscription, which would also be easier to achieve bureaucratically. They also claim from the opposition in this educational debate that nothing has been achieved in the last few years in terms of schooling. – As a result of necessary two-thirds majority, you have blocked everything for years. Now we have created for the first time some possibilities in this field by FPÖ and ÖVP with two large school packages, but you have not voted in favour. Finally, I would like to put forward a motion for a resolution which is very much in my heart and which I have worked together with my colleague Werner Amon, in the direction that there should also be preventive measures in the future to reduce violence in the school, and that the possibility of increased mediation and conflict management will be created in the future, but above all that there will be an extension in relation to school psychologists. I therefore propose the following motion for a resolution:
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7516	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled has been properly submitted, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7601	Mrs Gehrer, Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, spoke next. Speech time: 8 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7622	Mr President. High house! I have listened very closely to this debate. Some of the speakers have mentioned that I am in office for ten years – I know that I am delighted about that. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of the liberals.]] I have once compiled a list of what has happened in these ten years. [[Abg. Broukal: About birthdays, holidays and so on?]] [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I would therefore like to give Mr Gusenbauer, the chairperson of the party, free of charge about what has been done in these ten years. I'll be happy to make this available to you. For five years I worked with you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, as a Federal Minister – and you were very happy at the time. Five years were there in this constellation, a time when there was also much progress. I think it would be important to advance education, the children, the universities and not the respective situation, whether in opposition or government. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now for three things that bothered me a little: In my opinion, it is clear that you want old centralism from the opposition and just have something against autonomy and independence. They want to reintroduce the old central flaw. The second is your opinion, everything and everyone has to do the school: I leave my child at 8 o'clock in the morning and pick it up at 18 o'clock, then it'll be prepared for any kind of temptation. [[Call at the SPÖ: That's not true, that's an assumption!]] – Ladies and gentlemen, it doesn’t play that way! We need a cooperation between school, parents and society. This is the right environment for our children! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Something that bothers me very much is when it is said again and again: It's only someone who's going to the university who's better trained. – You do wrong to all kindergartens! You do wrong to all apprentices, and you do wrong to all those who go to our good vocational schools! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This is a way of qualifying educational courses that do not satisfy young people. In our school system we have a 100% permeability. [[Abg. Oil: Well, well!]] Everyone in our education system has the opportunity to take a further educational path. Therefore: To say only those who have been to the university are well trained, that is, I think, already some kind of superiority. I would like to say something about this proposal, which was tabled by the Green Group, in that I would have promised 500 preferential professorships. – That, ladies and gentlemen, was never promised! In coalition negotiations, you have demanded that 500 professors, who are professors of Ao., be transferred to O. professors. We have discussed this, and we have always talked about applying for preferential professorships from the universities. 77 professorships have been approved and € 21.8 million has been made available for this purpose. However: It was never the speech of 500 preferential professorships! Therefore – so that such claims do not solidify – again: That's just not right! Ladies and gentlemen! It's a big concern to say that the universities need our support. But they also need our support and our well-being in the public. We have faced a great challenge to universities with the new university law – and: You're on a good path. I think they need the support of all the groups in this House – do not encourage those who do not want to change! I would like to thank those who think about the future, who take part in the changes and face the challenges! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] This also means that universities are not abandoned in difficult situations. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, have abandoned the universities in the difficult situation after the ECJ judgment. [[Abg. Oils: All right!]] [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They voted against the possibility that universities can choose. [[Abg. Broukal: You can see what comes out of this autonomy!]] We've been negotiating with you for days. [[Abg. Broukal: Date of postage stamp... Application letter!]] You, Mr Broukal, said you would agree if Mr Green Forest agreed. Mr Grünewald, in turn, said that he agreed, even if the Green students agreed. [[Abg. Broukal:... you can see what comes out of it!]] You have to trust something, and you have to support those who are in a difficult situation in crisis situations. – We have done this by the government, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Broukal: What do you trust? Nothing!]] Finally, I can say something: We look to the future at the universities. The universities have made very good organizational plans. There are discussions here and there, that is right, Mr Broukal. Not everyone is happy, because some Schrebergärten can no longer be managed as they used to be. [[Abg. Broukal: But go!]] Not everyone is happy, but there is a focus at the universities. [[Abg. Broukal: Badelt is a Schrebergärtner? Gantner is a Schrebergärtner? Don't be ridiculous!]] [[Abg. Gaál: What do you know about Schrebergärtners?]] There is a positive development at the universities. The universities have newly established themselves to the students as a partner. The universities have received additional resources for infrastructure. The universities have received additional funds for preferential professorships. The universities receive all salary increases. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you something: We founded three new universities. Do you know what's going on in Berlin right now? – In Berlin, two medical universities will be grouped together in the near future and will have to save 40 percent of the staff over the next five years. Nothing has to be saved from us! There will be money for it! I am currently negotiating the budgets for 2007, 2008, 2009 with the Ministry of Finance as regards universities. The universities will receive more money in the global budget. You'll get more money for general remediation. We will accompany the universities into a good future. . I would ask you for your support very urgently.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7857	The next speaker was Mr Brosz. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e7878	Madam President. Minister for Education! The audiences at home will be wondering, slowly, what can be started with all the numbers that have been mentioned today. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Yeah, it's not that complicated. There has been a time in Austria in which relatively much money was spent on education and, for example, relatively little money for the military. This has not been so long since, as we do not need to look back so far, we can leave that undisputed! [[Abg. Murauer: Who was that?]] Austria continues to benefit from the fact that we had good expenditure in the international comparison. Only: How does the development of recent years look like? This study, presented by Mr Schweitzer before he disappeared again, only records the figures until 2002. However, what you have done over the last three years has been the most massive reduction in education, but it has not yet been found. And if we take this into account, we see the trend that education expenditure in Austria is as low as in only one other country, namely Ireland. That's the trend, and it's against this one! We have nothing to do with staying there and saying: Yes, in Austria we need a lot of money for education and very little money for interception hunters! This is a much more sensible position. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Amon did not talk about the interceptors, but about something else: He talked about the school numbers and said: We're international leaders. – That's what I thought: Interesting! It's funny, I've had it in my head! – I am now the only example of page 389, where I find a beautiful table that shows how many countries have fewer and more students in classes than Austria – Professor Van der Bellen is looking at: 23 countries are listed in this table, 13 countries have an average of lower class students than Austria, nine have higher. Mr Amon said: It's world class. – I say: This is a wonderful example of how selectively this is looked at. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] Mr Amon, when you made yourself available at the front of the speaker's desk as a Litfass column and attached yourself to this giant thing by plug, I have already thought: Interesting. What's on it? Yes to Klasnic? - Yes, of course! [[Call the ÖVP:Yes!]] Yes to Klasnic! [[Demonstrative applause with the ÖVP.]] As a result, we have looked at it more closely and found it – now, Mr. Zweytick has also come to it; now it's three, so now it's found more! – that of all ÖVP delegates only you are standing down with “Yes to Klasnic”. – So: If only you say yes to Klasnic, then you will get a pretty problem to win this choice in the Styria! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] If we are already talking about Styria, then we are talking about what it looks like for example in the alternative schools in Styria and what these are threatened by locking up! There you can see where the so-called educational pioneer country of Styria is, when reform pedagogy... – It is very friendly that you put it there! [[Abg. Steibl gives the speaker a green touch button with the white label “Yes to the Styria”.]] Do you know what's nice about it? – The green is wonderful! Yes to green! With this you can really start something! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Steiermark stands on it; Klasnic's not on it at all. If the alternative schools in the Styria, which were so praised as a reform country, are in danger of being locked up, then it is not far from with the qualification as a ‘priority of education’! Mrs Education Minister, let us look again at the number of school students. You're probably talking about the Gymnasium Hagenmüllergasse. – You know as well as I do that the maximum level of class students in the AHS range is 30. Maybe you can explain to me why this year, after class combinations in the Hagenmüllergasse, there is a 8. Class – a matura class with class combination! – with 31 students, a 7. Class with 33 students and a 5. Class with 34 students gives! This is against the law, and there is no reason to speak here of rejections. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is country business, Mr. Brosz!]] These are the realities we're talking about! I don't know if you're going sometime. In the “Kurier”, from which any of you quoted, it is literally that you ask the director to visit a school or class once and look at the situation on the spot. – This could help to really think about the realities and then talk about them! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Afternoon care. – I would like to give you a concrete example, then it will be easier: A good acquaintance from me reports his daughter in the first class of a folk school south of Vienna and says: We need afternoon care. I'm working, my wife's working. – The director tells him: When 15 students register, there will be an afternoon care. Sorry. I can't tell you now if you'll get an afternoon care for your daughter in the autumn. – What is the consequence? The child is not going to school in a small village south of Vienna, but in the 10th century. District in Vienna, because there is an alternative or the security for an afternoon care there. [[Abg. Broukal: In Vienna there is of course afternoon care!]] And then you say that you are improving reality in school! – Ms. Minister for Education! They live in a world that unfortunately has nothing to do with the current situation in schools!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8006	The next item is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8030	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today's urgent request of the Greens is entitled "Education Misers". My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, that's just a matter mistake! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: “Paperlap! ” or how?]] If we have a debate on education today, we are pleased because I believe that education will be one of the very essential issues of the next time. Only: Speaking about a “education miser ” in this context truly means pure black painting! But it obviously belongs to the professional image of an opposition politician, to think only in black and not in categories of gray classifications. If we are discussing today how education policy and school policy are to develop and how the increasing demands in professional life must be met by school and by educational institutions, then you have us as a partner! However, if you are producing yourself here and only bring negative examples, some of which do not vote at all, Mr Oellinger, you clearly do not have us as a partner here. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Broukal: What example is wrong?]] – All that has recently brought examples to Mr Brosz is simplified and not right in the matter! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Van der Bellen has responded to this speaker's message – and I have listened to him with great interest; I have also found that your access was actually a very correct one. They say: Why Education? – In order to find a suitable job later on, when you’re done with your educational path. [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: But how long?]] No question! That is, among other things, very right! I'll sign that right away! However: They have always compared Finland with Austria without providing the second part of the truth. We have a much lower unemployment rate than Finland. [[Abg. Broukal: That would look different if you were in government for another four years!]] And this is exactly where the success of the Austrian education system is to be seen: We strive to train young people, among other things, to have a job and to do what they are trained for. And in it Austria is the top! That is also one of the truths. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] What really surprised me about your remarks, Mr Van der Bellen, is your argument with the threatening unemployment of teachers. - What are we doing here? Are we making state-of-the-art policy or are we making education policy? [[Abg. Dr. Van der Bellen: school policy, for the children!]] The student-teacher ratio in Austria is excellent. It can be better in making parts, especially in Vienna, but we have a better relationship in the OECD section. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr Broukal, I would like you to have the time to look at the OECD study! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Broukal: Mrs Colleagues! Don't worry about my time!]] - I'm not worried! On the other hand, what particularly scared me here in a debate on education was Mr Gusenbauer's statement, which is now no longer there, which, unfortunately, has left the hall after he made his speech. He has literally meant here that the objective of the Federal Minister is that no one leaving an Austrian school should be wiser than herself. [[Abg. Dr. One: But you don't appreciate your minister!]] This is polemics of the simplest nature, and that really hurts me in a discussion on education policy! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I hope, however, that we have Mr Van der Bellen as a supporter of our demands, especially in Vienna. He has spoken about the need for a larger full-day offer for children. This is a fundamental requirement that we support 100%. [[Abg. Broukal: Have you ever heard the word “hort ”?]] I can give you an example to Vienna: There are 484 Vienna compulsory schools, and 134 locations are all day long. This is not even one third of the students in Vienna! The others have no way of being cared for all day. [[Abg. Broukal: Mrs Colleague, you are polishing for better knowledge! Do you not know that there are hundreds of horte in Vienna?]] But now I am talking about the schools to be paid by Vienna, not the federal schools! The Federal Schools, on the other hand, have in principle a comprehensive supply of care. Look at this, Mr Broukal. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] All central European cities have a school development plan. Vienna has none. If it's in the paper that the plaster's crumbling, then that's right. I'm sorry! In this regard, however, we must contact the Vienna City School Council and not the federal government, not the Federal Minister, because it is not about federal schools! But Vienna is different! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] But here we certainly have the support of Mr Broukal. [[Abg. Gaál: This is nonsense!]] We have continued to have a veritable problem in Vienna, and my colleague has already mentioned it, namely the big language problem. We have many children of migrants, and we need appropriate language support here. In this respect, we also hope for the support of Mr Gusenbauer in the form of intervention by his own party friends. We demand the last kindergarten year free of charge from the ÖVP to address precisely these problems in schools. I am convinced that Mr Gusenbauer, if he is concerned about education policy, will support us by the ÖVP in Vienna!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8258	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8279	Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Let's talk about Vienna! Let us talk about education policy in Vienna, because we do not hide in Vienna! There is the best and most tangible offer in Vienna in Austria, and we would be glad if it were similar in other federal states. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In Vienna, ladies and gentlemen, childcare facilities are already considered educational facilities. That would be exemplary for Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In Vienna there are most cribs and kindergartens throughout Austria and also most afternoon care offers. [[New condolences with the SPÖ and with representatives of the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] In no other state, there are such necessary opening hours in kindergarten facilities as in Vienna. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The schools in Vienna were the first schools that introduced computer and Internet access in all compulsory school classes. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Vienna has introduced English long before all other federal states from the first folk school class. Luckily, the other federal states are now tracking! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Vienna has the largest offer of all day school places throughout Austria. In Vienna, every second child already has a full day school place. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] 36 percent of all day school places from all over Austria are in Vienna. A quarter of the Austrian high school courses is in Vienna. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And who pays all this? The League! That's the truth!]] One last number you should make particularly thoughtful: Only Vienna alone spends twice as much as you spend on adult education throughout Austria. That is embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! There are historical statements, and I can't pass your today's misdeed at the universities. “Paperlap!” you said, “There is no mister”. And how did you answer today's urgent ones in summary about the school area? – “Paperlapapp!” you said, “There really is no problem in the Austrian schools”. Mrs Bundesminister, I tell you: Many parents see this differently! Many parents worry a lot. They talked about growth and the focus of education budgets. You said: We are excellent everywhere. But, Mrs. Federal Minister, what are the real findings? – According to PISA study, Austria is making the third largest descent worldwide. That is really no reason for joy! The OECD says: Austria has the second largest decline in educational budgets. This is dramatic, Mrs. Federal Minister! Since 2000, there has been a halving of support for teachers. To that end, do you say “Paperlapapp!”, Mrs. Federal Minister? Mrs. Federal Minister, I used to have the impression that you were denying the problems. That's depressing enough. But I am increasingly given the impression, Mrs. Federal Minister, that you do not actually see the problems. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: She's the problem!]] And this is really worrying, Mrs. Federal Minister! Mrs. Federal Minister, what do you say to the parents who worry, who see too big classes, who see their children need support and they don't get them, who see that teachers and parents are left alone with the problems? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What do you say to them? “Paperlap app!” tell them, Mrs. Federal Minister, in your own way. They are increasingly forgetting that it is not about dry numbers, but many thousands of small people and about their starting opportunities in life, Mrs. Federal Minister! In the past, the principle of education policy was followed: We want to bring as many as possible. – Unfortunately, you have adopted yourself very efficiently in recent years! They say: We know we need additional support for the weak. But what are you doing, Mrs. Federal Minister? You're halving the offer! You halve it, although you know and say that we actually need a lot more. Shame, Mrs. Federal Minister, to every single child we lose on this path. Shame! That is human harm and politically unresponsible, Mrs. Federal Minister! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Let's take the example of Legasthenia: Now there should be legasthenietsts in the third class. Mrs. Federal Minister! Why not in the early years, in the first grade or even earlier, in the kindergarten? We know that we can really help at the age of three to four! The children need more support, Mrs. Federal Minister, and your lack of time and non-negotiation is due to many small and long dramas of many individual children!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8410	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8431	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Kuntzl, you are talking about the fact that this is not a matter of numbers, but it is precisely what you and the colleagues of the Greens are doing today: They take figures from the OECD report and, on this basis, represent all the time the Uni-Misere and the Uni-Crise. Professor Van der Bellen! Professor Grünewald! I do not think you are capable of recognizing the figures in this report and the related contexts. But I can't quite defend the impression that you're deliberately misinterpreting these figures in order to insure the Austrians. I'm just taking a number here. You write in your application that the decline of students is due to the tuition fees. - Yes! He's due to it. But not the way you mean it. There are not fewer students due to the introduction of the study fees, but many who were only present in cards were no longer shown in the cards, and therefore there are fewer students! The fact is, we have more students than ever before. And if we consider the technical universities, then the number of students has doubled from 2000 to 2005. It is therefore not true that we have fewer places to study, not even at universities due to the introduction of tuition fees. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Another point mentioned in your application is the academic ratio that has been quoted so often. You told yourself today not to talk about it. In this context, I would like to make it quite clear that we already have to look at how the comparisons come about instead of simply throwing numbers into the room. You have to look carefully: What is the composition of this quota and what is behind it? In fact, university graduates are not meant, but the academic rate includes all academics aged 25 to 64 who live in Austria. This does not allow for any conclusion as to whether the quality of universities is currently good or bad. The same is true of the higher education rate, which of course has to be taken into account as a university education. In Finland and Sweden, it is also the same way that compulsory school teachers and the medical and technical professionals are trained at universities and are therefore also included. So you can't compare that! We will be able to compare in the future if we have completed the expansion of the educational academies to universities and if the Bachelor's degree programmes will be further expanded. This only results in real comparable figures and no more uneven training systems are compared with each other. You don't have a quota today – not one of you! – spoke, because it is very positive for Austria: the very high degree in doctoral studies, because Austria is far ahead of this comparison of the OECD report. This, of course, does not fit your attempt to represent the unis as bad. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Broukal: That's part of your business, that's what you do anyway!]] Ladies and gentlemen, the judgment of the European Court of Justice unfortunately raised a very large flow of students from the Federal Republic of Germany. But one thing is not right either: In fact, if the opposition claims that all universities would sink into chaos. We only consider that there are almost 200 courses of study, while in the final effect there are two fields of study – medicine and veterinary education – for which we really need to work to find solutions. This is clear because the current solutions – and we certainly agree here – are not the optimal ones, and we will have to deal with new ideas about solving these problems in the future. I am very glad, Mr Broukal, that you have already joined the brilliant idea of the BZÖ-Obmann, because the university check to offer students a chance to offer a better opportunity in Austria has already been addressed. They would consider whether this is not supportive. [[Abg. Broukal: Now it is only the women's ministers that need to believe, then it would be appropriate! But you probably have to put forth a little more effort within the coalition!]] I think we need to review various possibilities such as the duration of our stay in order to ensure that there are good opportunities for Austrians to study here again. Ladies and gentlemen! Ideas are in demand, but not just pity and obnoxiousness!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8496	Ladies and gentlemen! We will come to the last round of speakers. I divide the remaining speaking time into 4 minutes each. Mrs Mandak's next speech. Speaking time, as I said, 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8521	Madam President. High house! Mrs Gehrer! You're sitting on the government bank, and I often have the impression that you're no longer aware of reality: What does school everyday mean, what does day-to-day study mean? I would very much like to show this on the basis of four brief examples. Example one: They say there are on average two teachers per class in Vienna. – I’m going to turn to Vorarlberg, both of our political homeland. I'll read to you something that I've been sent by a friend who works at the Poly in Feldkirch: We have 35 more young people at our school, but two less. [[Abg. Broukal: “Paperlap!”]] In the meantime, once there was a Carinthian – a teacher from Carinthia – who suddenly had no employment in his home country, although he built a house and had two children. After two days he was able to go back to Carinthia – I give him that! – and we were there again without teachers. We teach two classes with open doors at the same time or supply them in a pile, while we have already increased the groups to the highest numbers. I've felt bad enough now, but it's like a shock state: You row like a hamster. This is the state of affairs of a teacher from a school, where – I ask you to remember – a quarter of the students in the tenth year of school are not given a place of training, no teaching, no job, no further education, no further education in the future. Example two: You keep saying – I quote your statement today – that there are no restrictions on access to the university. – A Maturant from Bludenz has done just as much as the Maturant mentioned earlier by Mr Broukal: She too wanted to study medicine, has a very good witness and doesn't get a place in Innsbruck because she was too late for a day – it was also the 11. July. That's how reality looks, and, Mrs. Minister, you slept there. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You can't move that away now: They have known for a long time what the framework conditions within the EU are and how access restrictions can and should not be. You just slept that! [[Abg. Broukal: Exactly! “Paperlap!”]] Example three: They speak of 16 percent more budget at universities. – Once assumed that this maturant could have studied medicine, as she wished, she would have been taught by readers who deserve €15 in the hour. 15 €! [[Abg. Broukal: Gross!]] And do you know what you are doing in addition to calling on the need for austerity measures? – They free these readers when holidays are – in summer and during semester holidays. They're not health insurance or pension insurance. They can then see how they finance this with 15 € hourly wages, Mrs. Minister. That's how reality looks! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Broukal: “Paperlap!”]] Example four: There were no illiteracy from school. – Ms. Minister! Experts appreciate: There are 300,000 people in Austria who cannot read and write. A large part... – Oh, Mrs. Minister! [[Interference of Federal Minister Gehrer.]] A large part of them were in school! You've lost it again. So don't always stand there and don't pretend the problems don't exist in Austria, and don't regret us! We have problems, we have to see them! They finally need a awareness of the problem in education policy, otherwise it goes down the stream even further. Eternal damage! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8620	The next item is Mr Grossruck. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8641	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! What we have experienced today was a political recouing of old hats on the part of the opposition, nothing new. What we've always heard, we've heard today. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Yes, sir!]] I doubt that a special meeting is necessary, because we could have dealt with the subject just as next week at the normal meeting in a urgent question. But we have assumed that a special meeting will be requested by you before the first planned meeting. You have done a hard job on the subject, so you have just taken the educational programme. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, you can chew as much as you want – we don't chew, we make nails with heads. For Mrs Kuntzl, who spoke here earlier, I understand when she is making a mood for the Vienna election campaign and for her mayor. Mrs Kuntzl! But you've been wrong with the PC accesses. They said that Vienna is far ahead. – I call you a few numbers (PC per 100 students): Main schools in Vienna: six – last place of all federal states – polytechnic schools: 13 – Last place of all federal states – generally forming high schools: eight – last place – commercial middle and higher schools: 18 – Last place – and economic secondary and higher schools: 17 – also last place. [[Abg. Broukal: But it is clear to you that you are talking about federal schools!]] Vienna never appears first in the ranking. You made one of the SPÖs: They particularly praised Vienna and education policy. – If we now know that the other federal states are at least as good as Vienna, then everything is fine with our education policy anyway, then everything fits anyway. Then I thank you for your praise. However, we would not have needed the meeting today. No, ladies and gentlemen, the access of our Mrs Federal Minister is a very serious, objective one. Of course there are problems. Of course, there are problems when the number of students is falling and the question is what to do with the too large number of teachers. We don't deny that. That is why there are measures, which is why there are school packages, which is why there is also a forward-looking school policy which is in the best hands of our Mrs Federal Minister. Thank God we have the Federal Minister here and not any ministers of the current opposition. Then it would be worse to see what could be seen by all those who have followed today's debate here. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I may make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I have therefore spoken so quickly, ladies and gentlemen, so that I can deal with my speaking time, because at the end of the day, my mandatory four-liner, who is dealing with the recouing – what I have said at first: A ruminant has four stomachs, which is PISA-moderately right. However, there is also – without questions – such with only one stomach. They're all sitting in here with the reds and the greens.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8722	The motion for a resolution, which has just been drawn up by Mr Großruck, has been properly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8917	Next, Mr. Dr. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e8938	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr Grossruck, I think you have read it so quickly because you have been ashamed of the content. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What's in there? – In view of the OECD figures, it is cynicism that the National Council supports this education policy and calls on the Federal Minister to pursue the path taken. Yes, what's this path that's taken? Van der Bellen said it at the beginning. What are the facts in the Austrian education system? – We have fallen dramatically from the PISA study 2000 to the 2003 PISA study when we compare the figures on the school achievements of the 15-year-olds. It is a dramatic value if not only 15 percent – as before – but now at once 20 percent of 15-year-olds do not have sufficient knowledge in language and mathematics. Is that the way you want to continue? – The next time 25 percent who can’t read? Is that your idea, colleague Großruck? Whether this way should continue That would be a disaster! Or: We have been to PISA study I in one of the front seats. We were in the class of very good countries, and we have now fallen back to the middle. What does it mean, Mr Großruck, if we follow your request and continue on this path? – Then we are at the end of the middle field in 2006 and then in the end in 2009. This path must not continue, but it is now called upon to make real reforms. [[Call the ÖVP:In contrast to you!]] We have also proposed these reforms. We have proposed very concrete measures. Of course, in the sense of these measures, it is also necessary not to continue the course and to spend less on education. In 1997, 2.7 percent of gross domestic product was spent on education and 2.3 percent in 2006. That's a dramatic step back! If you say so, we continue, then I mean, that's cynicism, nothing but cynicism at the expense of Austrian children and young people and at the expense of the students. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If we criticize the education system, then you'll keep it apart! They always say we criticize the teachers here, we criticize the students. No, we criticise the education policy of this Federal Government, and we criticise the education policy that the BZÖ, FPÖ and People's Party Members are doing here. This is the criticism, not the criticism of the teachers. These can't do anything for them to work under such conditions. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] What we need is more than cosmetics: We need early promotion, which actually works – not letters that you send out and which are then not implemented in the communities. We need a massive expansion of schools all day long; more than what this federal government provides. We need a joint teacher training. This is much more than what the law now provides for the educational universities. This is a purely sign exchange at the doors of the educational academies. We need a joint teacher training. We must turn away from the early separation of children by the tenth year of life. This is one of the basic evils and one of the main reasons why we have an unfair education system. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And we need class school numbers of 25 and not anymore. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Follow our suggestions – and with the Austrian school system it will go up again!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9012	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9033	High house! – [[The speaker introduces a panel to the speaker's desk.]] [[Call the SPÖ: It can only be someone from the BZÖ!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The opposition gets more punctual after she sleeps for two hours. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree: You can improve a lot in this system – no question at all. The students, the students, they are all very important to us. But one thing I would like to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, from the left side, which you have now become mint on the basis of a small table: I think we should finally stop making ourselves up here and constantly yelling at the students, saying bad things about the schools, saying bad things to the students, saying bad things to the colleges. It's not that bad here in Austria. I think we're on a very good path. For example, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig – I have been following this debate quite intensively today – complained and said that we will continue to halve our education budget. - That's a quote from you. And then I read your request that you yourself have made. The Greens' request reads as follows: “In total, education expenditure increased by 9 % over this period.” So, ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about halving the education budget, but your own group is asking for education expenditure to increase by 9 percent. So education policy can't be that bad, otherwise we wouldn't have increased 9 percent! Or: Dr. Gusenbauer, who apparently prefers not to attend the debate now, who has nothing to do with concepts and visions, apart from a verbal derailment that is deeply to be condemned against the Minister of the Federal Government, except to stand out here and to provoke a two-class society. Ladies and gentlemen! At the level of the dispute: You only prove with your calls again that you cannot offer anything except intermediate calls and any intervening opinions. We from the Federal Government – the BZÖ, the ÖVP – will continue to work on a good policy, where much can be improved. And I think we're on the best way there. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Or: We were all sitting here and listening, like Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer quoted from a newspaper article that 15-year-old students can read and write poorly or not at all, and which the Federal Government has accused. If you count back now: Today 15-year-olds exactly ten years ago, Mrs. Worm – then still children – came to school. [[Abg. Arbitrator: Eight years ago!]] - Then you don't think so. Children come to school with six of us. Mr. Schieder, make the PISA test, who knows if you will exist. It's been ten years with us. [[Abg. Arbitrators: At the age of five you don't come to school!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Nine years ago!]] If you think about this now – and you learn to read and write in both Carinthia and Vienna at primary school – then you can see that these children were in school at a time when the SPÖ was at the government in which the SPÖ put the Federal Chancellor. So I think the ability of this federal government is not to doubt. There's a lot more to say. The speaking time – the lamp here starts to shine – gives me the necessary short time. I believe that we should have a wide-ranging discussion that we should not simply accept the wish of the Greens that we want to have 50 percent academics. I believe that the labour market, Mr Oellinger, is commanding us to think that we need not just academics. We need masters, we need skilled workers, we need self-employed, we need farmers. With a 50 percent academic rate, we will not be able to solve many problems in the labour market. I believe that this needs holistic solutions that we all need to discuss, without special meetings being organised, which in the final effect only serve their own staging. Madam President, I come to the conclusion. We were the only party that really had an idea. Our university check is a good idea, we should all discuss it. You of the opposition should not shut down this idea. In order for the Federal Minister to think about this too, I can give her this check.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9146	Mr Grünewald spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes, first of all the points to be corrected, then the corrected one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9170	Mrs. Gehrer, I'm focusing on your last incorrect claim, which was: 500 preferential professorships were “not promised. ” – True is the opposite! I quote an APA message from 22. June 2001, which reads as follows: "Who pays the early occupation of 500 professors in the course of the negotiations on the new university teacher service rights of the government side? This is currently the Gretchen question for the universities." Grasser emphasizes in a letter to the trade union that “it has been promised only that the 500 university professors’ plans which will be released in the coming years can be re-occupied more quickly than usual. ==References====External links== In October 2001, all 500 Uni-Professor Planstelles will be released for tender and advanced re-casting’. ==References== October 2001. – They have not all been released to this day.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9210	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Van der Bellen, ladies and gentlemen, on the package of measures against educational miscarriage. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to be approved. - That's not the majority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Rossmann, Mr Amon, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on further measures to prevent violence in schools. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. This motion for a resolution was adopted unanimously. (E 133.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Amon, Mr Rossmann, Mr President, on the continuation of the Federal Government's educational initiatives. I would also ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. This motion for a resolution was adopted by a majority. (E 134.) Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9274	I am still announcing that self-employed applications 691/A (E) to 698/A (E) have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 3428/J to 3448/J were also raised. Request within the meaning of § 99(2) GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2005-09-21-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00120_d7e9295	I also announce that, in connection with the autonomous request 694/A, a request by 20 Members within the meaning of § 99 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. As the legal requirements are met, this examination must also be carried out without the decision of the National Council. The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 5.05 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
