ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4086	The meeting was opened. Let me ask the ladies and gentlemen to take a seat. I very much welcome you all. The official protocols of the 96. Meeting of the 2nd meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Industrial Policy, of Mrs Haidlmayr has been reported to be prevented. [[10:00:32]] Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4123	We are now arriving at the current hour on the subject: ‘Sick children by dust: How long is the government still watching?" First of all, Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig is speaking. Your speaking time is 10 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4150	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! If you read today's newspaper comments, you can see that a subject is of course dominant. It's the government crisis, it's the crisis of FPÖ, it's gag in a party, which nobody would be interested in in Austria, it wouldn't be in the government. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the ÖVP and the Freeman]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: What now: fine dust or government?]] I now mention this here because there are very many pressing, important problems in Austria, which are simply not to be solved with a coalition that is in such a state – whether it concerns poverty reduction, rising unemployment, rising youth unemployment or also the increasing burden, especially on children, by dust. [[Congratulation with the Greens as well as with representatives of the SPÖ]] Mr Umweltminister, you stayed here today more than you had been on a trip abroad. You came to the House today to discuss this issue with us. I hope you won't continue what you've done over the last few days, namely: I'm not responsible, the heads of state are responsible, it's none of my business! In this case, we could have heard Mr Morak or Mrs Gehrer. So we definitely don't want to hear that today. This also means, as I mean, that many concerned parents, parents of over 60,000 children, who have to be supplied with drugs per year because of the high dust load. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] A surprise does not represent the high values at the moment. Due to the trend in recent years, this has been predictable, actually very clearly foreseeable. In 2001, the measurements started, and in 2002 we already have massive limit values at 50 percent of the measuring points. A year later, it was already two thirds of the measuring points, which continuously exceeded the limit values. 2004 was then already a record year: in cities like Graz on more than 100 days limit value exceeded. The year 2005 is just three months young, but the entire fine dust quota, i.e. the whole possibility of exceeding limit values, has already been exhausted. This means that everything that comes, whether that is the summer travel, whether it is the next weeks, where the scatter split is removed, or whether all the traffic loads that are still coming on us are beyond the limit values throughout the rest of the year. These are all limit values that mean massive health burdens, especially for older people, for sick people, but especially for children. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] This health burden is something I have not been able to and wanted to imagine in Austria for a long time. It is rare that an environmental problem has such a massive impact on health. The figures put on the table by the World Health Organization are actually dramatic, if not destructive, for Austria. In Austria we have 4 600 additional deaths a year – I emphasize: additional deaths – due to the fine dust load! This is four times as much as people in road traffic die every year – more than four times as much! Especially dramatic is the health burden for children whose lungs are not yet fully developed, where these small particles are depositioning and the entire lung function is disrupting throughout their life, hindering growth and often making them asthmatics or asthmatics for their entire life. Up to 60,000 children are sent to the hospital each year. I think we can no longer see it, Mr Environment Minister, and we cannot say at all: I don't care, there are nine heads of state who are responsible, and I'm not touching a finger! I mean, You can't look away any longer! The legal situation is very clear. It is a federal law, which means that a Federal Minister must be responsible. These are you, Minister of the Environment, you alone are responsible. Only because the heads of state are now partial in the implementation of this law does you not get rid of your responsibility. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I'd like to read to you about the federal constitution. The Federal Constitution clearly states that you can enforce this law by directions. They can force national leaders to take action, make plans, draw consequences and thus drastically reduce the health burden. You can do that! Your word is much more weighty in this case than you want to represent it yourself. If you come with the "smear" – under the quotation marks – there are nine heads of state – there are nine heads of state, that is true – then I ask you: [[Call to the ÖVP: But this is true!]] What consequence do you draw from the fact that these have been sluggish since 2001? Her uncle in Lower Austria completely ignored the 2001 values. This is a very good example. In 2001 the first limit value exceeded. He should have made a status report within nine months, i.e. he should have seen what the causes are, why we have this burden and what we can do about it. It should also have prescribed mandatory measures within 15 months. - He didn't do that! You can call on your uncle to do so and thus save many children in Lower Austria a hospital stay. Second example: Carinthia. A similar situation in Klagenfurt in Carinthia. 2001 massive thresholds. There is at least one status report there, so you know what the causes are, but you don't do anything. You haven't done anything since 2002, you don't touch your finger. Minister for the Environment, 2002 has been a long time ago. Three years have passed, and you take the position: I don't care, I'm not responsible!Unknown term type: "%s".? We know the legal situation, and I think it's also irrelevant. If you were a parent who would have to take a child to the hospital every week or every month for asthma treatment, you wouldn't care if the heads of state or the Environment Minister were responsible, then you wanted something to be done about it. You could do something, but you don't. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Today, we have chosen this subject as the topic for the current hour to end this refusal of dialogue and this refusal of responsibility and to ask you to take proper action once. If you play the same game again today and tell us: I don't care, I'm not responsible! I have to tell you: Then you could have sent us Secretary of State Morak! We definitely don't want to hear that today! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] There is another argument. In this case, Austria is once again EU-style. There is a European directive which lays down mandatory limit values, which mandatoryly prescribes what is to be done in the event of overruns, and which, contrary to our law, does not seek to comply with them, but merely to comply with them. Austria is again in the best way to risk an action, a conviction before the European Court of Justice. However, it is not the heads of state who are accused and held responsible, but you, the Republic and its representatives, and that is you, Mr Environment Minister. I think we can end the game of responsibility today. We would like to hear measures. I would particularly like to hear how you want to deal with the problem in such a way that I, as an environmental politician, do not have to continue to say: We have an environmental problem in Austria, which actually makes children sick, even responsible for their death! I think, Minister of the Environment, if you really have a sense of responsibility as an Environment Minister, then today you are proposing measures, then today you are actually proposing reduction measures and a plan for how we can handle the problem. [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to give you a few more facts about health pollution, because it is a problem that cannot be underestimated because of its drama. So, as I said, 4 600 premature deaths, which means that the life expectancy of the people living in Austria is on average reduced by four to six months. This means a massive cost burden from the health system. So if I were a Minister of Health, I would have taken care of this problem a long time ago. WHO and the EU Commission estimate the additional cost burden on the health system at €2.9 billion. So you could think a little more long-term. In the medium term, it will not be enough to provide a small tax spray for particle filters, for diesel filters, and to try to give a small incentive. This is at most a drop on the hot stone. You also have to attack the large chunks, and you also have to retrofit the truck fleet, retrofit the old stock. I think it is no longer reasonable to continue making gifts to the Früchterlobby if on the other hand children need to be treated with medication every week and have to go to the hospital. Mr Environment Minister, I think that parents can no longer look at you in this way, and I really expect to see real proposals for action today, how we can solve the problem in Austria.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4269	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. 10 minutes speaking time as a target destination. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4290	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! One important issue: Fine dust pollution in Austria, the European Union. Mrs Glavischnig, my motto as an environmental minister in the government is: Do everything for the kids! I am a family father, have three children, live in Vienna and take this topic very, very seriously. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We need to understand today where the division of tasks lies, who bears responsibility in this sensitive area. I am grateful for the fact that we are dealing very neatly with a legislative work that exists in Austria, which is more ambitious than that in the European Union and which has brought a good division between federal and national responsibility. Fine dust exposure is due – in short – to two themes: A block is the so-called ground load and a second is what is due to peak load, weather conditions, traffic density and many other things, i.e. ground load and peak load. We discussed a federal law very intensively at the time, a law to protect our air. It has also been implemented. It was the federal states that explicitly and clearly demanded: If there is a basic load and then there is extremely different regionally at peak values, we want to have the federal states, the status survey, the preparation of the action catalogues and the measures in our hands. This has been implemented correctly and clearly! What have I, what have we done in our federal responsibility to take the right steps? You see: We take responsibility! First of all, important point: Introduction of sulphur-free fuel from 1. January 2004. Pioneers in Europe to make a massive contribution to the question of ground level, to reduce fine dust. So introduction of sulphur-free fuel. Second point, a milestone in development as regards the question of fine stubbreduction: With 1. July of the year 2005, this Federal Government introduces the diesel particle filter in Austria, my dear ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We are thus leading Europe. In many statements by representatives of the German automotive industry you can also hear, because now this movement is going on, they will go to the diesel particle filter installation in the diesel sector. An important success! While we are implementing, it is still disputed in Germany who pays for the introduction of the diesel particle filter. Further point: We assume responsibility with a tax bonus to be able to reduce fine dust. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Next point: In 1998, during the EU Presidency of Austria, we implemented and implemented the introduction of strict truck exhaust standards – an important milestone in this development, just along transit routes – and we will continue to assume this responsibility consistently in the future. We will fight for this, and I will fight to ensure that, as far as car emissions standards are concerned, we can also implement stricter standards in Europe more quickly than it is planned. This is a sense of responsibility where the Federation bears responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, dear. But environmental protection is also not a one-man show of the Environment Minister in the federal structure of Austria and especially in this federal structure. At that time, in the creation of this law, which, as I mean, did not find the Greens' consent, but was an important milestone in the question of fine-stocking, the countries, as has been said, have asked themselves to take action. [[Call the ÖVP: Oh!]] You have been given the responsibility in this law, and it is now up to the federal states to assume this responsibility. This is not to move away from responsibility, but that was the point of discussion at the time: away from the purely federal law also in execution to the countries. This was granted, and now I call on the federal states to assume this responsibility. I'm telling you from this place, too: Let us not pretend as if the federal states – some, very many – would not shoulder this responsibility! Tirol: Night driving ban – an important step, a painful step that contributes to fine staubreduction. [[Abg. Brosz: Limit values exceeded or not?]] We have set very clear signals in Graz with the tempo limit, in which Styria sets very clear signals. The fact that in Vienna it is clearly expressed before this responsibility that one does not come into action from the former activist is not a problem which the Federation has to answer, but rather Vienna should take an example of those regions that have actually given an answer. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What is so important in the presentation for fine dust? Because this is often forgotten: Fine dust load is very different, has the most different starting points. It cannot, however, be required from the federal side to address the individual issuers in the regions – be it industry, whether it be transport, whether it be a certain problem, scattering, many other issues – and to regulate it uniformly throughout the country, if the legal possibilities are in the field of the countries, if this is clearly on the table. The Immission Protection Act air gives countries a wide range. Some notice this palette, some press ahead. Mrs Glavischnig, I can also say to you: In the last few days, their party friends in Vienna have clearly pointed out that the city administration in Vienna has, of course, a great responsibility and scope for implementation, because the law lays down it and because the law allows it. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: You too!]] Where we have responsibility, I have listed you. Let's see her! Diesel particle filter – important milestone. Waste gas standards in Europe – enforced. Sulfur-free fuel – implemented. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! This is a successful policy, as we imagine it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sburny: But not very effective!]] The second point that concerns me in this context, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that I do not want to emancipate those who bear environmental responsibility in the countries, but rather call on them to exercise their environmental responsibility. Environmental policy can not only be unloaded on the back of an individual, it will never be successful, but where responsibility is, it should also be implemented accordingly. Everyone can make their share of it. The IG air offers a wide range to protect our air quality in Austria. I call on everyone to implement this palette accordingly. In order to prevent misunderstandings in the future in the issue of the allocation of responsibility for law, IG-Luft has packed the reality here, so to speak, where point stands in there, who in this country has to ensure that the right steps can be taken towards the extraction of fine dust. [[The speaker refers to a black and green bag with the inscription “REALO”]] I can then hand over the portfolio to you as well.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4447	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that the speaking time of all other speakers must not exceed 5 minutes in the current hour. First of all, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4472	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! So I personally always appreciated Mrs Glavischnig very much, because she can argue very finely differentiatedly. That is why I am actually quite surprised that a line of reasoning has been developed here, where I say that being intellectual is too little, it is also fair in this question. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] We have already held this debate in the committees, and I ask myself the question: Why do the Greens try to attach to the Minister for the Environment a competence he does not have under law? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: The Environment Minister has no competence!]] What is the motivation? A first possible explanation, I believe, is that the Minister for the Environment and the Federal Government provides evidence of good environmental policy in the European comparison – and this, of course, represents a real danger to the green party in the field of competence of ecology. [[Abg. May. Worm: Klasnic! Graz!]] A second possible explanation: There's something like friendship services. Mrs Glawischnig, we know you and Ulli Sima as very committed environmental politicians. Colleague Sima has changed from the National Council to the Government of Vienna – and today we have to find that in this function, Ulli Sima is completely overwhelmed and a real disappointment. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Who?]] The Ulli Sima! [[Call the SPÖ: Of course the Missethon knows best!]] What happens, ladies and gentlemen, is to shift responsibility! [[Abg. Silhavy: Are you talking about the Styria...?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It's a responsibilities escape! And you, Mrs Glawischnig, are a relief therapist on this question! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] Of course, the question is also to ask why you protect the city councillor Sima. Why Protect You're Mrs. Sima? [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: We don't protect anyone at all! She's protecting herself!]] Why do you find no word today, no sentence on the question of the criticism of the Vienna Greens on the question of Cementwerk Simmering? [[Abg. Sburny: Because we are here in Parliament!]] No word from you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] You, Mrs Glawischnig, do not find a word on the subject of dust pollution in Vienna! As a steirer who spends three days a week in Vienna is active, I tell you: Obviously we should wait in Vienna until summer until the scatter split is cleared away! This is a responsibility which must be realized here in Vienna, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Call the Greens: I'm sorry!]] With the IG air there is a clear division of competence: Countries have the instruments in their hands and are also responsible for developing and implementing measures in this area. I say again: As far as measures in these areas and their implementation are concerned, Vienna is in many respects sparse! – Mrs Glawischnig, I would therefore have liked you to have a clear word about the situation in Vienna, but that is what you sound like. – These are friendly services, Mrs Glavischnig! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Speak a clear word about the situation in Graz! That's a cover-up...!]] As far as the whole problem of fine dust is concerned, we know that from the areas from which the load comes, the traffic is the one that is increasing the most – and it will increase sharply in the next few years. You can see this when you look at it realistically. [[Abg. May. Worm: You missed the transit contract too! You have to answer that!]] – Mrs Colleague, you are probably driving by car too! – During this legislative period, the Federal Government has put in place very important measures: where this falls within its sphere of responsibility. I should like to mention briefly the following measures: the widespread introduction of sulphur-free petrol and diesel – with less than 10 milligrams per kilogram of sulphur content – initiatives in the Environment Council to speed up the emission limit values for cars, at European level, particle filter incentives, the promotion of biofuels, the development and testing of the wider use of alternative exhaust-poor or energy-efficient vehicles, the spray-sparing initiative of the Ministry of Life and so on. Dear ladies and gentlemen! So a bundle of measures put in place at government level. It is also important for countries to take their responsibilities clearly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, I would like to say something about yesterday's Council of Ministers' decision to force the extension of the railway, Summerauer Bahn, as well as the decision on Semmering base tunnel. In the long term, the railway development is an essential element in order to be able to force the reduction of exhaust gas. To attract the rail, I personally consider it an important long-term goal that needs to be pursued consistently. [[Abg. Dr Gabriela Moser: But this Federal Government is shortening the funds for public transport!]] As a superior, I'll tell you: For us who live in this region, both the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Summerau Railway represent very important decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4683	Mr President, the clock has not worked. The 5 minutes have expired. The clock sucked so strangely. [[Abg. Broukal: That was even the watch too much!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Missethon is sending to talk further.]] – But just a short final sentence, Mr. Cot.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4716	This federal government is making an exemplary environmental policy in Europe: on the basis of an eco-social market economy. That's how it will stay, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4743	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4764	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Minister, you are making it very easy, because to say: The countries are in favour, the Federation has done its guilt, the countries have to act!, it is already a little too little. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call the Freeman:Ulli Sima!]] [[Calls at the SPÖ.]] The population does not expect us to sit here, to point the finger at each other and say that the other is guilty, but the population expects us to take the problem of dust seriously, work out joint and constructive solutions and get to grips with this problem – but not cheap polemics! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens.]] I could make it easy now, make myself here and say: Let's look at the seven largest capitals! Graz: the worst in this respect; ÖVP Mayor! Klagenfurt: the second worst; ÖVP Mayor! Innsbruck: Third worst; ÖVP Mayor! [[Call to the liberals: That's not a polemic?]] The four best in this respect? – Salzburg, Linz, St. Pölten, Vienna; all SPÖ mayors! But that would also be a cheap polemic, I admit. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But please, I take the example Vienna lovingly! They from FPÖ and ÖVP make themselves here and try to make Vienna bad. [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call:We only point out that...]] Vienna is an international example of these questions! Let us look at the example of Vienna, what a country can do – and what a country does! Mr Pröll, your own officials in the Federal Environment Agency have found in a study that 75 per cent of the fine dust, the Vienna is measured, not in Vienna, but only 25 percent are homemade. [[Call to the SPÖ: This one is from Lower Austria!]] Yes, 75 percent come from Lower Austria, Bratislava, Hungary and, in part, Romania. [[Calls:Mistelbach]] – You are right: The country has to act, it has to take care of this 25 percent. Let's really look at what a country can do – and let's also look at what the Vienna that you have done and that has done by ÖVP and FPÖ for so much. First area: heating systems. The goal must be to operate as many heating as possible with district heating or gas – and as little wood, coal and house fire as possible. [[Call to the liberals: Go!]] Heating equipment in Vienna: 96 percent district heating and gas – and only 4 percent house fire! Vienna can of course still work on getting this 4 percent under control, but 4 percent, that's an excellent value! Graz has over 30 percent house fire. Look at this! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: You have adopted yourself as an environmental promise!]] Transport: What a city, a municipality, a country can do about this is to ensure that there is a network of public transport that is as well developed as possible, so that as many people as possible use public transport and as few as possible by car. Vienna – you know – is the city of all millions of cities in Europe with the best public transport! As little as in Vienna is driving car and as much public transport as in Vienna, you will find that nowhere in a million town in Europe! That is the only and only way in Vienna! But Vienna doesn't rest on it: Amounts in billions will continue to invest in the expansion of public transport. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Let's take a very specific look at: What do cities like Graz, like cities in Germany? – Diesel particle filters are installed in buses that operate with diesel. Does that have to do with Vienna? – No, because Vienna has the most environmentally friendly bus fleet in the world! There is not a single bus on the Vienna line that runs with diesel; all of them with liquefied gas, in which the emissions are of course much lower! There is a model for Vienna, as in most other questions too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But, of course, Vienna must also act – and Vienna does, Vienna takes this problem seriously. In this respect, Vienna is working and researching all the possibilities that a city can perceive, a community that can perceive a country. Mayor Michael Häupl and city councillor Ulli Sima, whom you have already mentioned, act as an example and work to ensure that Vienna continues to remain an environmental model city. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Where does the dust come from? Why don't you ask Minister Pröll? – 75 percent of the dust in Vienna comes from Lower Austria, Bratislava and also Romania. The officials of Mr Pröll have found this! Read this study! [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Mr Minister, if you say you can't do anything, I will answer you: Don't turn back! You also need to take care of this 75 percent! If you do not think what you could do, look at the request made by Mr Steier and I a month ago. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: I told you three times!]] Here's what you could do; I'm just quoting a few points: Particle filters not only for cars, but also for trucks, because by these there is the much greater load. You, Mr Federal Minister, could, on your own and without Parliament, reduce the emissions standards for the industry, simply on the way to the regulation. You only have to agree with your colleague Bartenstein. – Perhaps you are too weak in this federal government – I think this is possible – but you, Federal Minister Pröll, could do that alone. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] The most important area: They could also make sound environmental policies in the European Union. But what you're actually doing is that you're the spearhead of the climate graves, that you're doing raisin picking with your tank tourism study, instead of acting exemplaryly in Europe and, representing Austria, doing proper environmental policy! [[Precisely-ent Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] My final sentence: Stop pointing at others with your finger, Mr Federal Minister, but act!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4965	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e4986	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mr Krainer, with his finger to point out to others, you have done so today! Their statements were not only unqualified, but also false! Let's take the city of Graz: Every third day there is a breach of the permitted limit values! And: Who is responsible for the environment? - No, I even wrote this down: [[Call the mayor at the SPÖ: The mayor!]] The Graz Environmental City Council Ferk is responsible for this! [[Abg. Reheis: This is a primitive argument!]] Let us take Tyrol, where we have a problem in this regard: Who is responsible for transport? – Landeshauptmann Deputy Gschwentner/SPÖ! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey,]] It may already be that some mayor or country captain is from there, but in principle, ladies and gentlemen, there is also the responsibility of SPÖ! Where you are called upon by the SPÖ, you cannot prevail, do nothing! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] At regional level, you are being preached by SPÖ something quite different than here in the House! It is already strange that those countries – Mr Krainer has shown this with his example Vienna – are always led by the SPÖ as the guilty of you, if you have the biggest problems yourself. When I go through Vienna today, I see: In Vienna you will be there relatively quickly in winter with the split – and it will then be turned from walking to a canal or to the road; there is no concept at all. When you go through in Vienna, you really have problems with breathing. – No wonder you have a lot of Heurigs in Vienna, because it will probably be because people in Vienna have to drink a lot to avoid this dust load! [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] [[Abg. May. Worm: Talk about the transit contract you abolished...!]] The EU has threatened Germany with a complaint – and Austria is explicitly cited as an example, including some cities of Italy. We are talking about the role of promoting the installation of particulate filters. Furthermore, it should be noted that the 5.7 percent addition of bio-sprays to fuels, so biodiesel, and the provisions of the IG-air should also be mentioned. I was glad when it came to it, but unfortunately there are some heads of state. [[Abg. May. Worm: The Environment Council in Styria says...!]] When it comes to responsibility, they should be sought where the measures should be implemented. I can only remember the tourist traffic in Tyrol, where now the car colonies have now passed through Tyrol – even in other federal states – and where there are the extended driving bans for trucks. I would remind you that, in this case, Gschwentner was unable to ask the Minister for a regulation in good time, but said: The Minister is responsible for this because he has not adopted a regulation! What are you asking a minister to do? The politician of the region in question is responsible for this – and not always the Federal Government or a minister! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Otherwise, I would suggest: If we remove the national governments, we do this about the Federal Government, then the ministers are also responsible for it. [[Abg. Dr. One: A good proposal!]] In Vienna we only do the administration; that would be a possibility. As far as the road load is concerned: From 1990 to now, there was an increase of around 5 percent, an increase of more than 40,000 tonnes. That's a lot, yes. So the greatest loads and increases result from the increase in traffic – and I think that is very worrying. I live in Tyrol, where we suffer very much from transit traffic: There are over 20,000 bronchitis diseases in Tyrol! 1 300 signatures from doctors clearly show that measures in Tyrol are not only necessary but essential. In this context, further mention should be made of: 4 640 deaths, 2 400 asthma diseases alone in children; a total of 2.3 million days of illness. If you take the total amount of €4 billion of damage, you have to do so at country level, of course. It is simply not permitted for individual Austrian establishments to be exempted from the possibility of an exemption. The EU also says that it is wrong to act in this way. For the city of Vienna, as well as for Graz, there should be driving bans – as in Bologna, for example. Let's make driving bans. Let's try it out. It must be ordered by the competent authority, and that is exactly the head of state or the mayor! That's where the responsibility lies! Personally, I'd be glad if such a thing happened. We liberals have always been for the environment, we have always been committed to environmental issues. We would also support such measures for a test case. And if that's not done, then let's look at why or why not! But then one must not try to put this federal government in the shadow, because the Federal Government is not responsible for environmental measures in the individual federal states. We have invested a lot in the environment, have done a lot; the provisions of the IG air are just an example of many. Many measures, including support, have also been put in place on our part. We shall continue to do so. But take responsibility from the SPÖ where it is! And: In your own rows is enough to do! Don't always point your finger at this federal government!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5109	Mrs Moser is now speaking. Your speaking time, Mrs Colleague, is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5130	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Do everything for the kids. – Yes, but what you do is to carry out competence disputes on the back or on the lungs of the children! And that violates the fundamental right to life! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: That's what you're doing!]] You, Mr Federal Minister, said that the Heads of State are responsible for such measures. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: You want this!]] You, Mr. Federal Minister, have leaned back and said that the Federation has passed a federal law, IG-Luft. – I call you, Minister: Yes, it is a federal law! But you, Mr Minister, are doing nothing about how the countries are doing virtually nothing or too little. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] That's what we owe them: The countries are doing too little or nothing! How else can it be that in Graz the 117-fold will be exceeded in pollutant values?- Oh, my God! How else can it be that Graz is, so to speak, the poison stronghold of Europe, which reaches air values?- Oh, my God! How else can it be that even in other national capitals already in the first quarter of 2005 the EU values were greatly exceeded and the number of cross-borders is very high?- Oh, my God! How can this be if the countries are supposed to do something, and how can it be that you, Mr Minister, simply stand by with such values? [[Congratulation with the greens.]] It does nothing – and the children, the people will not be healthy – that you, Federal Minister, say: There's a law, and the other is country. You, Mr Minister, must also assume your responsibility at the federal level with a view to coordinating the measures, as do we all know that there is a competition in the countries. Each federal state is doing so much, so much so that economic competitiveness does not suffer. You should now proceed uniformly, because there are only children in Austria, there are no “landes-kindlungen”, for example in Styria, in Vienna or Innsbruck – that is, a problem in Austria as a whole – and there you have the responsibility for coordination. [[Congratulation with the Greens]] And I would like to address this coordination responsibility to you, Minister of State. They must call the country representatives to a fine dust summit in Vienna and tell them in concrete terms what measures are being coordinated at the same time in all the federal states in order to finally stop this insanity of health risk, of life danger. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: To do everything – the countries!]] That's your job! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr. Federal Minister, don't apply the pocket-player trick with the competence-wirrwarr! This is unworthy of the dramatic situation of border crossings. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: The skills are quite clear!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] They all heard the facts from government. It is about avoiding 4 600 deaths per year across Europe. It is a question of preventing the annual elimination of 40,000 years of life per year of Austrian soil dust pollution from dying earlier. This load must be reduced. It is not only about installing diesel filters into new cars from next year, that is to say diesel filters in new weights, but also about trucks. You know very well, Minister, that trucks and buses are excluded from your federal measures with regard to retrofitting with diesel filters and the obligation to install diesel filters when re-purchasing. This obligation shall not apply to trucks and buses. That must be done. Finally, order them at the federal level or anchor them legally. You haven't done that either. You haven't done your very own homework yet. I admit, the low-sulfur fuels are part of it, but that's a drop on the hot stone. We need more efficient measures, and to put these more efficient measures in place, that is your responsibility. It depends on whether in Austria the children can breathe more freely in the future. That's our starting point! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5257	The next speaker is Mrs Marek. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5278	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What we are discussing here today is once again a typical example of the green zigzag course to want to shift the responsibilities – obviously according to the lust and mood – from the federal government to the countries or vice versa, depending on how it is fit or pleasant. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of the Greens]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Sburny: Is that so unpleasant to you?]] The Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen, has already done its homework during the current government period and has already implemented a whole bunch of measures. I am thinking, for example, of the widespread introduction of sulphur-free petrol and sulphur-free diesel, which has already been pointed out several times, or of the forced use of biofuels. The latest measure is the introduction of particle filters or the bonus malus system from 1. ==References== Next year, which should be an incentive. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Mandak.]] Now on the issue of distribution of competence, Sabine: As we have already heard, according to the existing measurement results – and I believe that this is essential – the national leaders have the opportunity to develop custom action catalogues for their country, and that makes sense. Of course, this also requires brain malt to help the affected citizens in the countries to achieve better air quality. This can also be expected from their national leaders, especially since this regulation of national competence has been designed at the express request of the national leaders. However, the green environmental spokesman Eva Glavischnig calls on the Minister of the Environment to order the countries by direction, to establish a status analysis and to implement action catalogues is a blow to the face of all national leaders and a clear vote of distrust. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Exactly!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: “A stroke to the face”?- Oh, my God!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] Dear Eva Glavischnig, only because Vienna is once again a bad example, cannot be closed from the Federal Capital to all other federal states. It has simply been made too easy when the competent councillor Ulli Sima in Vienna repeatedly tries to shift all responsibility to the federal government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Krainer.]] A flat-rate indication that the scatter split has already been halved in recent years and has also been done quite a lot, as has been said in the media over the past few weeks, is simply too little, ladies and gentlemen, especially in the cities, the number of asthma-stricken children is rising and rising, which the greens themselves have pointed out. [[New call for tender of the Abg. Krainer.]] My son has been suffering from asthma since his third year of life, and I urge City Councillor Sima to finally take action within the framework of her possibilities and competences and not to permanently push the Black Peter to the Federation and Minister Pröll. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] It is not a matter of approving, ladies and gentlemen, an incredibly environmentally polluting cement plant in Simmering. That's not a measure I'm imagining! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: Look here!]] By the way, the Vienna ÖVP already asked the city of Vienna medial very vehemently two weeks ago to finally fulfill its obligation to act. The Greens then sprang up on this train a few days later. [[Abg. Krainer: A little content!]] By the way, the fact that the city of Vienna and its Ulli Sima are to be sued by the environmental protection organisation GLOBAL 2000, which was its former bread-bearer, does not deny a certain pikanery. Proposals on how to improve the quality of the air are made by many, including by their own Vienna Environmental Procuratorate. As a matter of urgency, it is precisely what you call for the federal government to demand from the city councillor Sima, namely the submission of a plan of action. There are enough proposals that could be implemented immediately. For example, I think that more frequent cleaning of the roads would help or also free use of public transport on particularly dusty days. [[Complementary of the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé]] There is no lack of proposals, as has been said. It is in the hands of the national authorities to implement them as well. But once again, the Greens are trying to adapt a highly successful Environment Minister and put a responsibility on him to fight the national leaders, once again shows that Josef Pröll is on the right track. I very much hope that he will continue to follow this path. Another note: Mr Krainer, you have quoted from the report of the city of Vienna, in which the limit values are also included. I do not know what report You have – he's not here now; [[Abg. Broukal: (on Deputies Krainer) He's sitting there!]] Excuse me, I didn't see you! – in which I have completely different limits, completely different maximum values in there than you quoted them. I invite you to read the report of the city of Vienna!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5456	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5478	Mr President. Minister! High house! Mrs Marek, I mean, just because your child suffers from asthma, you should remember that it makes no sense to kick the ballerl back and forth. I think we're all in the opinion: Fine dust knows no national boundaries! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the liberals:No political boundaries!]] Fine dust knows no municipal boundaries! Fine dust doesn't know any state boundaries either! I think that's the point where we agree. However, the question is: What can policy do in the area for which it is responsible, and what does it actually do? Mr Missethon, I am also a steward, I am a Grazer, and when I am in Vienna, I recognize what Vienna has done within the scope of its possibilities, which has made local opportunities. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll: The bad air!]] Mr Federal Minister, if you say "bad air", I must say to you: I live in Graz in that district, which has the highest load and the highest excesses. But I would like to talk to you later. But I already recognize one: In Graz, of course, we have a different burden because, for example, we do not have such a great removal of solid fuel combustions as in Vienna, where most of them already have alternative energies. In Graz, we are fighting to expand the public transport network the way it is in Vienna, for example, through the subways. [[Abg. May. Molterer: A lot of federal money!]] Honestly, which one of you is driving in Vienna by car? You will probably all use the subway because it is a cheap and a good transport. It is important that you recognize what is locally possible, and at the place where you are responsible, you are then required to do something. People have deserved this, and people expect it from us too. No one should say: I'm not responsible! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As I said, I am from Graz and I live in that district in which the highest loads and the most common excesses were measured, namely at the measuring point Don Bosco. I always get a little emotional when I hear from the ÖVP: Well, that's not a representative measuring point, because it's too exposed! Don Bosco is about 5 km from Graz's main square, not even a hundred meters from it is a youth sports centre with a large sports ground. There people live with children, young people, old people. That means it's not exposed! This is about the quality of life and the reality of life of the people who live there. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: But the environmental councillor Ferk belongs to SPÖ!]] You are right, colleague Steibl, the competent city councillor, Walter Ferk, and he has negotiated 20 million € in the last budget for measures against this burden there. Thus, the buses of the city are equipped with particle filters, and thus there is also a separate transport program that the cars are equipped with particle filters. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: The most harmful fine dust is that when smoking!]] Mr Rasinger, you should not make unqualified calls here, but you should remember that this is about the health of children! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Less smoking!]] [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] That would be your obligation – and not to make such calls! Of course, it is left to every Member, but it points to the quality of the Members, how they call in and how seriously they deal with this issue. I'd like to point out that fine dust is a subject that shouldn't matter to a doctor. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Walter Ferk has, as I said, negotiated €20 million for environmental measures. Currently, the Graz taxi companies are also negotiating the installation of particle filters. It's possible locally. The city of Graz – and, Mr Wittauer, I would like to thank you in this context for your contribution – has also addressed twice to the Styrian state government with the request that private driving bans may be imposed on those days on which there are the highest loads and diesel vehicles without particulate filters. One should now think that this could not be a budgetary problem that could easily be made possible. But what does Mrs. Klasnic do? What does the competent Council of State Seisinger do? They say, "No!" They simply ignore it because the President of the Economic Chamber of Styria says: That's not going to be the case! It is ignorance if the President of the Chamber of Economics says no that there is no meaning for politics. So you can say: The Styrian ÖVP is the quality of life of the Grazer population completely no matter. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Steibl: That's a premise!]] But the bird was shot down, Mr. Federal Minister, by saying that the people did not know what they had decided when they said that the limit values were being reduced, which were once again doubled, and that's what he'll do. [[Abg. May. Worm: Yes “super”!]] This is the solution of the ÖVP: The limit values are raised and doubled again. This will not change the quality of life and the health of people, but politics can turn back and say: It's none of our business. This is your policy that you do everywhere – but this is a policy that people have not deserved! Mr Federal Minister, we call for you to finally take action and take action in the interests of the people. There's a catalogue of measures, and I'd like to hand them over to you. [[The speaker put a paper on the government bank.]] It has been prepared by the State of Styria. The country is stupendous – perhaps you want to work, Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5670	Mr Magistrate will now come. It's the main word. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5691	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I do not want to act here as Minister Pröll's advocate, but I can remind you, ladies and gentlemen of the Green Group, that as a parliamentarian you have the opportunity to understand the legislative process. And it should not be forgotten that the original draft of the ministry has provided for the possibility you today to issue emergency regulations to the Minister and was then declared after the assessment of the operation of the national leaders. You have to say clearly: If the Heads of State want to take responsibility, they also have the responsibility to bear, but then they also have the obligation to act within the framework of their responsibilities. I cannot see another view. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Those who are in a responsible position in the state governments and in the cities should finally become active and not, through their federal groups, further insecure the Austrian population. You can see who is responsible because of the results of the elections. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Yes, exactly!]] If I, as an example, take Klagenfurt, Mrs Glawischnig, I can tell you clearly: On the basis of a scientific survey, the S & D Council Rohr and the Landesrat Dörfler, responsible for road transport, have taken measures for Klagenfurt and are now in the implementation phase. But who is against it? You hear and marvel! – Mr Holub of the Greens and the Greens in the city group! [[Buh-Rufe at the ÖVP.]] So, Mrs Glawischnig, it will not go: on the one hand, uncertainty the population, but where sensible action is being taken will be against everyone! You will have to decide whether the federal group has the crucial word to say or whether the on-site fishing of voters in election struggles is the determining element in your party. Let us not forget, ladies and gentlemen, that road transport contributes only to 20 percent of the fine dust problem, and the diesel is about 30 to 35 percent involved. The rest will need measures to be taken only locally and which the Minister for the Environment cannot put in place. Look at the streets in Vienna, Graz and the other cities! An improvement in the road surface would bring a reduction of 30 percent of the fine dust load. A use of non-bituminous but concrete surfaces would bring a 30 percent reduction in rolling resistance in load weights. Look at what your environmental gurus is building in the communities! – Roads with bituminous surface and not streets with cement ceiling and with appropriate noise levels! They thus cause 30 percent of the damage due to false savings measures in road construction in their cities or in their communities. This is not the responsibility of the Environment Minister and the Federal Government. I am very proud that in the ministry in the field of road transport there are plans at last together with the University to build noise protection walls in Austria that absorb the fine dust, which is then removed, similar to in the tunnels, by washing in the appropriate form. These measures can then finally be used to reduce the load on roadways with fine dust. But what has, ladies and gentlemen, the environmentally conscious Austrian that he buys a car with a particle filter? – The Federal Government grants a subsidy of €300 but nothing on the road, because the brainless measures of some treat it the same as those that travel with the instincts, with the environmental sinners. There are the same limits, the same restrictions, the same bans. I really believe that since the regional cerebral malt would be asked, namely that those who are environmentally consciously equipped are also encouraged environmentally consciously and not subject to the same restrictions, including in daily road transport. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say to you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you praise Europe's policy in this way: You should not forget that Austria, with the promotion of the most environmentally friendly weightings, has remained on a wider corridor in Europe alone. We've been left there alone. Just where it would have been possible to achieve a clear reduction of these burdens with environmentally friendly weightings of Class IV and V, the European Union has failed – not the Minister of Transport, not the Minister of Transport, but the European Union, which you have falsely praised here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5742	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5763	Mr President. Estimated Minister! High house! What are we talking about today? [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP:Yes!]] We are obviously talking about what the Minister for the Environment is not responsible for. [[Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] No – we're talking about fine dust, Minister. You say right, no. It's true, we're not talking about what you're not responsible for, we're talking about fine dust. What's this, fine dust? – fine dust is so small that no eye sees it. It's so light that the air carries it. It is so fine that it penetrates almost everything, and the smaller the fine dust, the deeper it penetrates the lungs, even into the bloodstream, and there it causes disaster. What does our Environment Minister say with his motto of doing everything for the children about this very dangerous situation? – He says: The Minister for the Environment is not responsible because the countries are responsible! The Immission Protection Act Air is a matter of the indirect federal administration, the federal government leaves the law and the countries implement it! The highest federal authority in the field of fine dust is the Ministry of the Environment. It can be found in Article 10 para. Read 1 B-VG: ‘Federal matter is legislation and enforcement in the following matters:’, and there is also reference to air pollution under point 12. “In the affairs of the indirect federal administration” – as stated in Article 103 of the Federal Constitution – “the head of state is bound to the instructions of the Federal Government and the individual Federal Minister...” – that is, the Federal Minister can give instructions; and this goes even so far as the Federal Government is able to assert these measures before the Constitutional Court in the event that a head of state opposes the instructions of the Federal Government. [[Abg. Brosz:... Hit the face...!]] It is believed that the Minister of State and State is struggling with the caliber of a head of state Pröll. I can imagine that very well! However, I have to tell you that this federal government is inactive at the federal level. For example, the thick air around the city of Salzburg has led to the introduction of a reduction of the maximum allowed speed to 100 km/h on Monday on a route up to 30 kilometres around Salzburg: Two minutes of time loss to 30 kilometers bring 7 percent less pollutants to the environment! However, this government actually wants to increase the maximum speed to 160 km/h. And the land of Salzburg with the three-track extension of the motorway Hallein would probably be a good route to get to the south at 160 km/h the faster. That's what this Federal Government is doing! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mr Missethon has tried to be fair. In my opinion, this fairness is also one of the things I believe to admit that there has been a failure. The Minister for the Environment has failed on this issue! You just have to say that. The fine dust – which is known, we have known for many investigations and several years – is the largest killer in the dirty air: Death comes from the finest, that is, we don't see it, but it hits the smallest, because these are at eye level with the exhaust of the vehicles – and the traffic is the largest issuer of fine dust! But what does the government do, what does our Environment Minister do? – He disregards the warnings of the environmentalists and continues to confirm that he is not responsible on this issue. I don't think that's fair. It's unfair if I'm responsible for something, but I just don't want to do anything because for some reason I don't want to ask any national leaders to do something. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I am sorry, Minister for the Environment, I am not saying it, but it is a fact that every day that this government and you as the Minister for the Environment are in office is a lost day for the environment.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5855	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. [[11:03:07]] Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e5876	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6257	I would like to draw the honourable Members' attention to the fact that almost all ministries – with only one exception – are present for the first time a report on the legislative and working programme of the EU Commission and the Council of the European Union. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] These are allocated to the committees today. The President-in-Office of the Council thus implements a part of the Europe project, which is intended to discuss and advise EU legislation here in the National Council prior to its decision-making in the European Council. Each committee now has its legislative programme on the basis of a report from the Ministry. We can therefore discuss the matters in our committees, including in plenary, where appropriate, before they are decided in Strasbourg or Brussels. Application pursuant to § 87 para. 1 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6291	In order to prepare for the report of the Austrian Convention (III-136 of the Supplements), MEPs have given their opinion. Mr Molterer and Mr Scheibner requested that a special committee be chosen, composed of 22 members and as many replacement members, in accordance with the d’Hondtsch procedure. The division between the fractions according to § 30 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure shall be composed of ten members and alternate members for the ÖVP, eight members and replacement members, and two members and alternate members for the EDP, and two for the Free and Greens. There is also a request from the honourable Member, Mag. Molterer, Dr. Cap, Scheibner and Dr. Van der Bellen, on the application for the election of such a special committee in accordance with § 59 para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure. That's what the Hoge Haus decides. I therefore ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of holding a debate to bear a similar sign. – That is unanimously decided. We are therefore going into the debate. [[11:05:14]] Debates of the European Parliament 3 GOOD
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6338	In the Presidential Conference, it was agreed that a speaker of each group would come to the speaker's desk for 5 minutes each. Mr Cap has been reported to speak. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6362	Mr President. High house! This is a precedent, because in the President-in-Office normally the way of consensus is always sought, especially in the setting up of committees, in this case in the setting up of a special committee. However, there was no consensus on this. It will therefore be the government's intention to use this Special Committee with the majority of the two government parties, i.e. ÖVP and FPÖ, against the votes of the opposition. To this end, I would like to say the following: It is quite clear that this is a constitutional issue. All that the Austrian Convention has worked out here, but just don't stand up to consensus, are, for the most part, constitutional criteria; this is the question of a new constitution! I therefore ask myself: What does this House have a Constitutional Committee for if, in the presidential conference and here in plenary, the majority of the constitutional bodies do not assign to this Constitutional Committee? I have the suspicion that the reason for this is that the Presidency of the Constitutional Committee has a member of the opposition, in this case a Social Democratic. This is why we want to set up an extra committee, which is not chaired by a member of the opposition, but rather by a Member who can be assigned to the camp of the government parties. We just can't accept that! I would like to express this clearly. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And this is also the real precedent: not only that there is no consensus here, but that one does not assign this matter to the Constitutional Committee because a member of the opposition has the chairmanship there. I think this is undemocratic, because you must not forget: If the work of the Committee you are using here is really successful, you should try to implement parts or even an overall work of art of a new constitution, then without the The vote of the Social Democrats in this House is not because you need a two-thirds majority to do so. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer.]] But what is the basic attitude, if one does not take into account when setting up the committee, does not go towards consensus and thus signals that one is not even interested in consensus in this formal question? I would therefore like to express the protest of the Socialist Group. We will therefore not agree to this request either.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6435	The next speaker is Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6456	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to come down a little bit from the artificial excitement that Mr Cap has spread here. [[Abg. Gradwell: What is “artificial” about it?]] He complained about us being undemocratic and possibly taking away a chairman from SPÖ. [[Call the SPÖ: Please vote too!]] I would like to draw your attention to this and hopefully also to what it is all about. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] This is about – and Mr Cap unfortunately refused to do so – that we are discussing the results of the Convention, which were initially sent to the Federal Government as the first draft and were now passed on by the government to Parliament. [[Abg. But there is a committee for this!]] Mr Cap! I look back: About one and a half years ago, we started with a consensus: All four political groups agreed to set up a Constitutional Convention with a Bureau. Some requirements were agreed, and there was a really very professional, good cooperation between all the political groups in the Convention – at least I have experienced it; I do not know if you were there, I was at least there regularly. It is therefore more than the decision who will be the chairman and who will not. It is about the foundations, the foundations of our state, areas such as the distribution of competence, the state institutions, the question of the design of a catalogue of fundamental rights! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: You could see that in the Constitutional Committee too!]] How it looks with legal protection in a democracy – a very essential point! It is about things that concern us, all of you, in principle. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's exactly what the Constitutional Committee is about to do!]] Mr Cap, to come here with a really small discussion, who is the chairman or not the chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs and Citizens' Rights, is in fact a small one. [[Abg. Gaál: This is competence of the Constitutional Committee!]] And we are certainly not so small-cared! [[Abg. Neudeck: As the bad guy thinks...!]] We know that we need your consent, and we will also try to reach this agreement. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. One.]] I hope we come to a consensus. You're playing with us here! You are playing a game here to blame us for being undemocratic – and we are not, Mr Cap! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: Bowl is a big zucker!]] We have access – a very reasonable and good access – that, when it comes to something as essential as the foundations of our state, this should also be brought to knowledge and documented in a particular act, therefore: no routine committee, no constitutional committee. Mr Wittmann, on the other hand, is very well guided by this, but there are no objections from us at all, but it is no longer a routine, but it is: We must decide what our future will look like. Symbolically, it is therefore particularly important to set up a special committee here – because symbols play a major role in politics. We are documenting how important this issue is to us that we are more concerned with routine work than with routine work. [[Abg. I don't think so.]] And we will hopefully also document for you that we are ready for a good and fruitful cooperation, and hope, Mr. Cot, that you will not deny us your cooperation, as you, unfortunately, have refused the agreement for the Special Committee. [[Abg. Parnigoni: If for you a parliamentary treatment is only routine, then it is bad!]] [[Abg. Parnigoni: If Parliament is routine for you, then you are wrong, Mrs Colleague!]] I would like to add something: As a majority group, as the largest group in Parliament, we felt that it would be very useful to offer the smaller groups an appreciation here in the House by applying the so-called Shapley’s procedure. That would mean upgrading the smaller fractions. You refused! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] And that is actually a very strange way to deal with minorities. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's it!]] Not only in Sunday's speeches to support minority rights, but in the concrete work to make a better anchoring of the minority groups possible, that would be good for you, as a symbol, actually! – Mr Schieder, you were unfortunately not in the Convention, you probably did not hear of this good work and of this good climate: [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: Then give all four fractions the same places!]] It was a really very constructive work. It's a lot ahead, we want to build on it. I hope that the Socialist Group will join us here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: Four times five: five, five, five, five.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6714	Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig is now speaking. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6736	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! What happens to this request by Klubobmann Scheibner and Klubobmann Molterer? . A report of the so-called Austria Convention will be sent to Parliament and allocated to a Special Committee. This is the first time in Austrian constitutional history that such a special committee is created. They put forward the following arguments: This issue is so important and so complex. If we compare this with other projects decided by the Constitutional Committee of this House, the question arises as to how you measure what is important and what is complex. The Federal Constitutional Novel of 1929, which was a very far-reaching novel, was discussed in the Constitutional Committee, i.e. not a Special Committee! The enlargement of the European Union, a very complex constitutional law, was in the Constitutional Committee. The EU Accession Treaty was in the Constitutional Committee, not a Special Committee! The new EU Constitution, which actually has legal effect, which will also change the Austrian Constitution, is very complex, very important – and was also in the Austrian Constitutional Committee. [[Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer and Mr Brinek.]] The report of the Austrian Convention, on the other hand, has no legal effect at all! And I remind you of how you usually deal with reports: Reports will be completed in the Committee, they will not even be put to the plenary session again! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Not at all!]] Now I ask you again: Isn't that a bit harsh argumentation? Is it not a somewhat illogical argument that this is “so important”, “so complex”? [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No!]] The EU Constitution, the Accession Treaty – everything not important, everything not complex, not a special committee? And for the first time in Austrian constitutional history, is there a special committee for the report of the Austrian Convention? Allow us a certain skepticism and a certain distrust that there are other reasons behind it. One of these reasons has already been mentioned by Mr Cap, namely the actual reduction of opposition rights by trying to avoid committees led by members of the opposition. A second argument might also apply – that is my interpretation: The failure of the Austrian Convention, the failure of this constitutional reform in this very, very controversial form of the Austrian Convention, that is, outside this House, should be covered outside Parliament, because it is in fact the responsibility of the ÖVP that nothing has come out here, and especially because of the federalism issue. [[Call the ÖVP:Well go!]] As all commentators will right me, that's not cynicism, that's actually the real problem: They have not managed to put a modern catalogue of competence on the table. We saw it again in the morning: In this jungle of competence, one is no longer capable of addressing and solving the real problems. That's the real reason! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] It is now being tried to raise this formally, through a special committee to cover this failure. But once again, it is a precedent, in Austrian constitutional history for the first time! Klubobmann Scheibner once raised the question of the so-called “Austria first” popular desire – the so-called! – to discuss in a special committee. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why so - called?]] He was not allowed to do so at the time. It is now happening for the first time, and I wonder why the Austrian Constitutional Committee, compared with all the other major constitutional reforms that he has mastered with Bravour, has been well-prepared for, and also for the plenary, should no longer be able to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6824	Next and last word is: Mr Scheibner. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6846	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glawischnig, thank you very much for holding that we have always taken action to deal with important issues here in Parliament in special committees, especially when matter is cross-cutting. I believe that the first, the great constitutional reform of the Second Republic is such an important question, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Could it be that you didn't understand?]] For more than 18 months, we have been sitting in the Constitutional Convention – including a complete reconstruction, how to deal with such a project – and have worked on this concept for days, weeks, months, unfortunately without a consensus, Mr. Cap. And it has not been the fault of the government parties, it has not been the fault of many employees that there has not been a consensus for this Constitutional Convention, but it has been your party leaders who have ordered and said the Njet: No, it might be a success of this federal government if you allowed a consensus here! And you have used every obvious reason to ensure that there is no consensus for this Constitutional Convention. This is really the background to this. Now you want to treat this as little as possible and are therefore opposed to a special committee: because you do not want Austria to get a new dynamic, modern constitution during this legislative period. Please admit, Mr Cap, that this is the background to your dissuasive and dissuasive opinion here against this Special Committee! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I now have to protect Mr Wittmann from your attacks. None of us would at all have the idea of not entrusting Mr Wittmann with a committee like this. But it has often been seen, also in the Constitutional Committee, that we MEPs in the government groups must protect the committee chairman from your proposals for the Rules of Procedure and the criticism of its Presidency. [[Abg. May. Molterer: That's right!]] [[Abg. ==References====External links== May. Molterer) Is it beautiful in your own world?]] I'll do this here, too. As chairman of the Constitutional Committee, Member Wittmann has our full confidence! We have no problem at all. [[Congratulations on Members of the Free and the ÖVP.]] The reason for the establishment of this Special Committee is quite simply that this constitutional reform is important to us. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] This is the most important constitutional project in the Second Republic. We have this responsibility. I am excited about how you want to work by the SPÖ in this Special Committee on this Constitutional Project, and I regret that you and the Greens, too, are preventing us from working as a unfortunately smaller group with three – rather than two – members in this Committee.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6939	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the honourable Members. Molterer and Scheibner to select a special committee for the preliminary consultation of the report of the Austrian Convention. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this sign. – The request is the majority and is therefore adopted. The names of the members or alternate members to be notified by the clubs to the President or shall be listed as elected Members as soon as the list is available, in the Stenographical Protocol. [[See 101. ==References== April 2005]] . In addition, all Members of Parliament will have a list of the members and alternate members of the Committee. Announcement of a urgent request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e6981	I announce that Members Dr. Josef Cap, colleagues and colleagues have called for the written question 2807/J of Mr Dr Josef Cap, colleagues to the Federal Chancellor on ‘From ‘Speed kills’ to ‘nothing goes’ before entering the agenda, to be dealt with urgently’ – consequences of the standstill of government work. Under the Rules of Procedure, the urgent question will be discussed at 3 p.m. Request for a brief debate on the response to the question 2344/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7011	I would also like to say that before entering the agenda, there is the request made pursuant to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a brief debate on the reply 2344/AB to Question 2380/J by Dr Gabriela Moser, colleagues on criminal proceedings against Tibor Foco by the Federal Minister for Justice. As this meeting called for urgent debate on a written question, the brief debate will take place following this one. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7036	It is proposed that the debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7060	The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the design and duration of the debate. A day block time of 8 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, resulting in the following speaking times: ÖVP and SPÖ each 140 minutes, Free 96 minutes and Green 104 minutes. That's what the Hoge Haus decides. We shall now proceed to the vote. Whoever agrees to this proposal of the President-in-Office of the Council, I would ask for a sign of approval. – The consent shall be given unanimously. That is why we are doing so. [[11:23:01]] 1. Point Report of the Health Committee on the Government Template (797, e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Law on the Safety Requirements and Other Requirements for Food, Products and Cosmetics for the Protection of Consumers (LMSVG) and the Amendment 111/A (E) by Mrs Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues on the reform of the Food Law (LMG) and the Amendment 143/A (E) by Mrs Mag. Johann Maier, colleagues in the field of food law and agricultural property law (823 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7123	We'll get to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. Mr Magistrate is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Johann Maier, who opens the debate. His speaking time is 8 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7154	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Food is of absolute importance to life, but also to the well-being and health of people. They're vital. Not safe, that is, harmful foods can cause serious illness, even death. For this reason, we are discussing food safety issues today. For this reason, appropriate framework conditions, controls, but also effective sanctions are necessary. But we should also discuss unhealthy nutrition, because wrong and unhealthy nutrition can also lead to severe diseases, but also to thickness. I miss, Mrs Federal Minister, in Austria, a concept of how to meet obesity, especially when it comes to our youth. According to the European Food Report, 14 percent of girls from 7 to 14 years of age and 16 percent of boys are obese. Mrs. Federal Minister! When will you present an appropriate approach to action? I would like to remind you of one thing because it is a very essential issue: There are no regulations in the school sector to clarify the form in which children are to be fed in schools, in boarding schools and how to cook there. – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! In this regard, Federal Minister Gehrer has an absolute need for action. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The food safety issues were the BSE crisis, the crisis about drug abuse in animal husbandry, foot-and-mouth disease and other areas of problem. It was about – and that was the goal – to ensure a control from the field to the plate. The food chain from primary production to the consumer should be monitored accordingly. We Socialists stress – and I say this very clearly here – that: This claim will not be met by this law, and therefore we will not agree to it either. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Although there are some positive approaches in this law – we do not hide this and we see that in the same way, Mrs. Federal Minister – we think that very essential points are not regulated. On the question of competence: The Minister for Agriculture is still responsible for feed, although this concerns health problems and issues. We miss a health-related advertising regulation. Mrs. Federal Minister! Why isn't there any advertising? – The Austrians always get brochures, look at the Internet and then find such announcements: Get as much protective carotinoids, provitamin A as four to six kilograms of salad from your garden and 15 kilograms from the supermarket! Or: Create from one of the richest vitamin e sources of nature, three times richer than raw wheat, the biological activity is 49 percent higher than with synthetic vitamin E. Mrs. Federal Minister! You can or can't believe that. Now I ask you: Why have you given up the reporting obligation in the field of food supplements? – I may You remember: It has been decided here in this House that there is a reporting obligation for food supplements. This law gives up. That is, the Ministry of Health fails to observe and control any form of market surveillance. On this point – and this is what I want to maintain – the situation will not improve, it will not remain the same, it will get worse, and we will continue to have major problems in the field of food supplements. All in all, the food will not be safer by this law. You know why? – The controls in the food chain, namely in the countries, are not in the health sector, but are still in the agricultural councils. The agricultural councils decide how much personnel, how much money is used if the use of pesticides or the use of feed is controlled. We believe that at country level, as well as at federal level, a very clear adjustment of competence should be made. The competences should not be divided, but summarized in one hand. There should be a clear responsibility for the health sector. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This law also does not comply with the basic food regulation, which must be clearly said. It's incomplete. The EU Commission has assumed that food and feed are equal and equal. Therefore, there are also appropriate control requirements. I'm asking you now: Why was the feed not regulated by this law? . We consider this to be an absolute deficit and therefore reject this proposal, in particular, for this reason. We also reject the proposal because it does not become more transparent. There is no reporting obligation to the National Council. There is no appropriate information to the public, where labelling rules are violated, for example, against the GMO. Consumers do not know which products actually contain GMOs, although they are otherwise marked. Overall, the issues of food safety must also be seen in relation to the situation in the AGES. Ladies and gentlemen! The AGES is a member of the Federal Government – a patient who never knows how long he is alive. There's a lack of personnel. Opinions are made too late. I quote from the opinion: Due to the acute lack of personnel, the investigation could not be carried out in time, so that it has already been delayed. What does that mean? – In this case, consumers have taken on harmful foods because the AGES was not able to carry out the relevant analyses and opinions in good time. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For the reasons set out, we reject this proposal, but do not hide that there are some positive approaches. The principle of hope lives. Mrs. Federal Minister! We hope that the question of Internet control in this House will be resolved positively in the autumn.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7264	The next speaker is Mrs Riener. She's got 8 minutes of speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7285	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Five Regulations were adopted by the European Parliament and the Council in 2004 which regulate food safety, food hygiene, in particular in the case of foodstuffs of animal origin and official feed and food controls. In accordance with the principle of control from field to plate, a continuous control is intended to ensure the free movement of goods in the European internal market with safe food. For the first time, a Europe-wide harmonised control effort has been chosen to improve cooperation among Member States. Due to the European Rapid Warning System and the common approach to crisis management, for example, the presence of dioxins or hormones in food can be clarified and reduced more quickly. It was now up to the national authorities to regulate implementation. I would like to start by starting with an amendment tabled by Mr Barbara Riener, Mr Mag. Herbert Haupt, ladies and gentlemen, on the report of the Health Committee (823 of the Supplements) on the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act (797 of the Supplements), and seek the President's opinion on the extent according to § 53 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure for the distribution to Members. I would like to explain the key points of the request. These additions take into account the suggestions of the Federal States of Upper Austria and Vorarlberg, since, without appropriate rules on the collection of fees for controls and revisions in establishments at increased risk, the costs incurred by the countries would not be covered. This Regulation shall apply in particular to establishments requiring authorisation and in Regulation (EC) No. 853/2004. The further points contain necessary clarifications in the sense of legal certainty. This new Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act replaces the 30-year-old Food Law and the Meat Investigation Act. For the preparation of the law, I am expressly grateful to the staff in the Ministry of Health and to the practitioners who were also involved in the preliminary work and gave valuable evidence of efficient implementation. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A number of basic principles predominate the implementation of food controls. The principle of ‘from field to plate’, as mentioned above, regulates the control chain of all stages of food production including primary production. The principle of risk analysis consists of three steps: Risk assessment, risk management and risk communication. The principle of transparency is taken into account by the introduction of quality management measures in official control and by the principle of efficiency enhancement through strategic integrated control concepts. Mr Maier! The Ministry of Agriculture is very much involved in this. If you read § 30, you will see this. This integration of control into a control plan reduces multiple controls in primary production. Business ownership is required in the form of mandatory self-controls at all stages of production. Traceability must be ensured. In the future, registration of all food establishments and not just meat processing plants will take place. However, by means of a regulation, there are reliefs in the delivery of small quantities, which is particularly important for direct marketers. In addition to animal and vegetable foods, including all drinks and additives, such as pots, packaging, cosmetics and toys for children under 14 years of age are also covered by this Act. By establishing a monitoring system, an early detection system is established in addition to official controls, so that, together with the risk analysis, an early response can be carried out instead. I am allowed to report from the Styrian State Department under the head of state Waltraud Klasnic that the Veterinary Department, together with Joanneum Research, has established a computer-controlled control system that has proved itself very successful. The establishment of an Austrian-wide database not only regulates the control plans, but also provides consumers with more safety to consume healthy products. That is why I cannot understand that the opposition parties will not agree to this law. However, I invite you, together with the government parties ÖVP and FPÖ, to take responsibility and agree to this law. They also pointed out in the Committee that this law is very OK in the main guidelines. I can assure you that it is appreciated by Austrians if responsibility is taken over courageously. That is why they also appreciate the policy of the ÖVP.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7359	The amendment tabled by the honourable Member Barbara Rienerin to the broad guidelines by Mr Barbara Riener, Mag. Herbert Haupt, ladies and gentlemen, is involved in the negotiations and will be held in accordance with § 53 para. 4 GOG to the MEPs. The application shall have the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7490	For business treatment, Mr Mag. Maier reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7511	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! On behalf of my group, I should like to protest the most strongly against the process of the government parties. It was always agreed that amendments should be made to the political groups, to the opposition parties at least 24 hours in advance. We are now faced with an amendment which we have not known before and which can hardly be discussed. I was not aware of this request as the first speaker of my group. I wonder, Is that the government's policy? Is that how it goes? – I think this is an absolutely undemocratic process and I protest at the sharpest.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7542	In view of the fact that there are no further statements on business treatment and that the submission of amendments is a business law, Mr Dipl.-Ing is next speaker. Dr. Pirklhuber. His speaking time is 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7563	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is already significant that the government factions do not allow any response to Mr Maier's legitimate speech and that the President must take over this task. We also think that this approach is not really appropriate, Even if it is in principle possible under the Rules of Procedure. That's not a question. Ladies and gentlemen! Food safety and consumer protection legislation is essentially about adapting to an EU strategy. This has already been mentioned here. It is about ensuring quality assurance from primary production to sales, to consumers. Mrs Bundesminister, it would have been good to have the EU White Paper on food safety from the year 2000, namely the key points of the European strategy: the traceability of food and the precautionary principle as a second essential element. It is a question of looking at exactly where this strategy exists so far, where it has worked at European level, where there are shortcomings and what action needs are currently in place. In this context, I would like to remind you: We have accumulated a massive implementation deficit in recent years. We have not implemented up to twelve EU directives in the food sector. In the meantime, we have progressed a little further, and this implementation is also urgently needed. It will replace the old food law and the meat investigation law as well as hygiene regulations in this area in the future. Of course, we welcome fundamental harmonisation at European level. Of course, it should also be noted that some very good considerations are taking into account, especially in the field of direct marketing, because we want regional products, we want to ensure regional supplies, including in the processing of raw milk and raw milk products, for example in the area of smaller cheeses. These are real signals, and from our point of view there would have been a need for clarifications in order to eliminate misunderstandings in good time and not to allow misunderstandings to be reintegrated again. But, ladies and gentlemen, we also need to consider what does not work in this area, despite good intentions at European level. And I address very specifically the question of traceability in cattle identification. There is a current EU Court of Auditors report on this, and it says that control in four Member States – Austria was not included – has shown significant and massive deficiencies in relation to the mandatory label implemented on the basis of the BSE crisis with two ear markers in cattle. It was found that these earmarks were to be renewed between 10 and 20 percent within four years because they were torn out. A classic problem that farmers know about is that the earmarks contaminate that they are damaged that they are not weather-resistant. It has also been noted that animal passports have not been returned in the case of intra-Community movements of bovine animals, that the relevant databases – and I believe this to be crucial – are not compatible and are not up-to-date and à-jour. This review included large countries such as Germany, Italy and France. There has therefore been massive criticism of this system, which has been reintroduced. Mrs. Federal Minister! In Austria, the labeling of sheep and goats will also take place from July 2005, and I would like to strongly advocate the possibility of using transponders here, which are microchips, to consider seriously, because this is a safe, sustainable strategy and is good for farmers and food safety in Austria. I would also like to draw attention to a deficit in this regard as regards the Allergy Marking Directive. We would have these until 25. ==References====External links== They have not implemented it, Mrs. Federal Minister, which is also a point of the long agenda of unfinished things. But I would now like to explain in detail the criticism of this law. Ladies and gentlemen! The precautionary principle, which is a key element of food safety, has not really been implemented in your proposal, as the health damage is seen in the EU regulation in relation to the medium and long-term impact of, for example, drug residues et cetera. So the cumulative and the toxic effect would have been to be defined here. They would have had the opportunity to define health damage taking into account the precautionary principle, i.e. also taking into account long-term effects. Unfortunately, this has not happened, although this is contained in the EU regulation – from our point of view. As regards the control of agricultural production, primary production, agreement must also be reached with the Ministry of Agriculture. With all the permission of discussions that can be conducted, we must seriously ask ourselves whether independence is guaranteed in the field of control, because control on the one hand and advice and production on the other hand do not fit together. The four-eye principle must apply here, and therefore this approach is not appropriate. Mr Maier has already done this: There has been no harmonisation in the field of feed law. Agricultural property law continues to be established in the field of the Ministry of Agriculture, whereas it has been a part of the Directorate-General for Health at European level since the BSE scandal, in other words, where it belongs. This has not happened to us at the national and federal level either. Apart from the criminal framework for animal feed: The maximum penalty of around €7 000 is still far too low. It is also particularly worrying that the possibility of compulsory confiscation in the case of unsafe foods is also dropped. That's good, ladies and gentlemen. This means that supervisory bodies will be able to waive a penalty in the future, and that at the same time – this is also a fact – the number of administrative criminal proceedings and appeals will increase dramatically among the independent administrative Senates. The countries have told you that, that is nothing new in itself. The story with the official veterinarians is also particularly questionable. We have repeatedly criticised the fact that official veterinarians are allowed to carry out checks on holdings they may have consulted at some point. This is not excluded, but is not excluded because, although it says that they are responsible and can be used throughout the territory of the country, it is not explicitly established that they must not come into conflict of interest. The rapid warning system is also insufficient from our point of view. In the field of food supplements reporting register, Mr Maier rightly said that this is a huge problem because, in the end, one has to say quite honestly, and that is usually the opinion of the Greens, food supplements only after medical indication and in exceptional cases useful use. Otherwise, it is about raising or maintaining the quality of food in Austria in such a way as to make it possible to get out and ensure a healthy and natural diet, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The increased information and information work towards consumers is also not adequately formulated in this law. The reports on this matter to the National Council are coming from us. It is necessary in this area to discuss annual reports in the committees, in the plenary session. In conclusion: The donation of the Agency for Health and Food Safety is still completely inadequate. We will discuss this in detail in the context of the budget debate. For these and many other reasons, we have also given a different opinion and we will not vote in favour of this bill.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7665	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. 7 minutes welcome. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7687	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Both opposition speakers have found that there are good approaches and good content in this law. It is all the more unfortunate that you do not agree here. We see that the objectives of a Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act are largely achieved by this law. This law regulates the requirements of food, water for human use, consumer goods – it was very important to us liberals that it also includes toys – and cosmetic means and also the associated responsibility of entrepreneurs. This law applies to all stages of production, processing and distribution, and we believe that this is a very crucial matter, that according to the principle of “from field to plate” the first time the overall view has been given from producer to consumer. I think that's a very remarkable innovative performance. This law replaces two laws. It is also seen that a good thought has really been pursued here: On the one hand, one has the Austrian Food Act of 1975 – only because it was possible to last 29 years, one can see that the issue of food safety in Austria has been very well regulated, and this tradition will be maintained – and on the other hand the meat investigation law brought together in 1982. Not only does it make sense to see this together, but it also obliges us to abolish this separation, which has been strongly developing since 2000. In this case, Community law is certainly a sensible and absolutely necessary supplementary measure for the freedom of movement of goods. The aim is to bring about the harmonisation of food law in all Member States. Community law, based on the White Paper of 2000, has developed considerably with individual regulations, as has been said. There is the Regulation governing official controls in food and feed law. The Regulation on animal health and animal welfare provides. There are regulations on the adoption of uniform hygiene rules and there is a general regulation on the food sector. – These regulations are implemented by the new Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, which also repeals the separation in food law on the one hand and meat investigation law on the other. The hygiene rules for food and their control are well regulated. This has also been seen in the time of the BSE scandal: In Austria, unlike other European countries, there has been a very efficient and rapid response to the emerging BSE scandal. There are still improved measures in this area. The aim of ensuring consumer health and protecting consumers from fraud is at least achieved by this law, and we will find our agreement.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7729	Mrs Frau Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat has now spoken. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7750	Mr President. High house! Foods are, as it were, the fuel for our bodies. It is therefore not only important that food be safe, but of course it is also important that we all eat the right food at the right time in the right form and in the right amount. What do I mean by that? – The legislator can and must ensure that food is safe – and we do so with this Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act – but each of us bears responsibility that he also eats the right food – there are healthier and less healthy – that he eats it at the right time, that is, not only regularly, but also at the season when the food grows in the area where we live, that he eats it in the right form, so that we actually sit down for meals – this is especially important for children that we also have the conversation at meals and eat the food not only in between – and that he eats it in the right amount, because too little leads to malnutrition, too much to obesity and obesity. If Mr Maier said that the Ministry of Health had done nothing about this, he would do so against better knowledge, because Mr Maier is generally always excellently informed. He cannot escape the fact that in the last one and a half years, the Ministry of Health has set up a wealth of activities in this area. Concepts have been developed on the subject of “right nutrition”, symposia and events have been held. I may only point out a few of these activities. Our health promotion movement is based on the two main pillars of nutrition and exercise, which are essential for preventing obesity and obesity. There is a wealth of projects in kindergartens and schools. Last year we developed our own child health plan with 56 experts, where this was a special topic. We carried out our own symposia at the beginning of July 2004 on obesity, especially in children, and developed a plan of action, starting from the mother-child pass and from projects such as cooking courses for parents to the warning to young parents, especially in the preparation of baby food – after two tragic cases have occurred in France, thank God not in Austria – to the health passport for young people, who are currently in an edition of 80 000 pieces to the students of the 8. School levels are distributed and of course also points to proper nutrition. But let me come back to today's law, the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, quite explicitly. This law replaces, as has already been said, two other laws – the Food Law of 1975 and the Meat Investigation Act – and will be subject to your consent with 1. In January 2006 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to turnover taxes. The existing regulations, which are based on the Meat Investigation Act and the Food Law from 1975 – they are a total of 175 regulations – are valid until there is a need for change. Until the beginning of the entry into force, there is a need to adapt some of the regulations of the meat investigation law, and we will also announce them in good time. What changes does it make? – The two laws become one, there is also, of course, also a feed law and the Food Safety and Health Act. There are five EU regulations which form the basis for these laws, namely the general requirements for food law, general food hygiene, the specific hygiene rules for food of animal origin, the specific rules on official control of animal food and the rules on official control of feed and food. What are the objectives of this Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act? . We know, ladies and gentlemen, that European uniform rules on free movement of goods in the European internal market will only ensure. National reliefs – and this was very important to us – strengthen the local food industry for small and medium-sized enterprises, but without questioning the objectives of food safety. And because of the intra-Community transport capacity of products from local SMEs, production is also promoted in the border area. Strict quality management in official control brings transparency on the one hand and comparability of decisions for both producers and consumers on the other. Of course, in order to be able to control global flow of goods, good traceability of goods is required. Through the European Rapid Alert System and a common approach to crisis management, crises such as dioxins or hormones in food can be resolved and reduced more quickly. The concept “from the field to the plate” – it has already been addressed – enables for the first time to introduce a process control of production along the entire food chain. On-the-spot staff-intensive final controls can therefore be used more effectively wherever they are necessary, for example in gastronomy and commerce. The integration of controls into a control plan reduces multiple controls in primary production and optimises the use of funds at the federal and national level. With appropriate monitoring programs, sufficient data can be collected in order to actually act and not to act. An improved data situation increases the quality of risk assessment, and the decision-making basis for risk management is therefore a wider one. With the help of modern communication technologies, targeted risk communication with consumers, producers and trade is possible. The European commitment to traditional food and its production methods will ensure the diversity of the local food range in the long term, and this is particularly important to us for the Austrian farmers. Simplifications for direct marketing and primary production also strengthen the Austrian peasantry and ensure close contact between domestic producers and consumers for the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Let me just say a few words about food supplements and Internet surveillance. Mr Maier, you know that we have made an appropriate statement in the Committee. We have agreed that the questions relating to food supplements will be dealt with together with the novelle on the pharmaceutical law which is in place for parliamentary treatment in autumn, because we tend to think that food supplements are more attributable to the medicinal products. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] As far as Internet surveillance is concerned, a regulatory authorisation was also introduced in the Committee, which is intended to serve as a basis for the evaluation of websites containing food advertising. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that with this Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, we can provide the Austrians with a modern law for the future and also with appropriate controls, a law that ensures that the relevant food is also available in sufficient quantity. And we hope that the Austrians will also consume these food in the right way at the right time and in the right amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7848	Mrs Schasching's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7869	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In contrast to my colleague from the SPÖ, first speaker Johann Maier, I already had the amendment tabled by Mrs Riener, and I had the opportunity to look at it. But, ladies and gentlemen, this procedure, to bring in a motion for a change at this very short time, may be in conformity with business rules, but it is, I would like to emphasize, also silent. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: “Speed kills ”!]] It testifies to the abjectness and self-glority of this federal government, which is absolutely not yours – Mr Scheuch, certainly not! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I also believe that this is a moral image of this government, because this proposal is not only rejected by us in many respects in terms of content, but we consider it to be bad overall. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Another casus belli!]] Therefore, once again: Then, with quick amendments, there is nothing more to be done, and, unfortunately, the law is not necessary with this amendment. However, I would particularly like to take one point out of this paper and raise the question of how the hobby and broadband athletes, but also the top athletes with this new legislative matter is going on. I have to say: Unfortunately, nothing has improved! If you, Mrs. Federal Minister, say: We will still debate all of this anyway, we have time to deal with the matter of food supplements, in the near future it will come to a joint decision anyway!, then I wonder: Why have you not already resisted the need to report food supplements? You could've done that already! So this is not the right way to a joint presentation. In this context, I would remind you that Mr Maier's ever-increasing motion for a resolution – it has been before us since spring 2002 – is fully concerned with this matter of law. It is about the fact that all the people in Austria, especially the young people, who are especially active in sports, sports activities, by means of food supplements that are freely available in the sports goods trade over the Internet and who believe in the wrong way to do something good to their bodies and their sports fitness, take risks to their health and put their physical performance at risk. This will counteract what our common goal should be, namely: to become healthier and fitter. That's why I'm saying: This federal government is threatening the health of the Austrian population by this law! In fact, it is not only for hobby athletes, but also for top athletes – in this case, doping-related substances are known – that are effective in food supplements. I can only remind you that our ex- colleague Elmar Lichtenegger made negative headlines in the course of a doping check that he was, so to speak, a victim of this non-existent law. He has also again and again agreed that there should be an urgent improvement. – By the way, in the recently run-out ski season Hans Knaus was also a victim of this non-existent law. It has not yet been possible to reach agreement on this, and this is unfortunate. It is very unfortunate with regard to the health of hobby athletes, and it is also very unfortunate in terms of the reputation of the sports country Austria, because it cannot be that we endanger our top athletes by not giving them the appropriate legal support. That is why, Mrs Bundesminister, once again: You could have already anchored the control function in your Federal Ministry – we are missing it. The reporting obligation on food supplements has been abolished. I hope that we will at least be able to implement small parts of Mr Johann Maier's motion for a resolution for the benefit of our athletes together in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7925	The next item is the speech by Mr Rasinger. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for his excellent report. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e7946	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! In fact, I wanted to talk about this decade law, a law that, at least, summarizes six EU directives and two laws and upgrades 175 regulations. But when I heard Mr Maier, I thought I was in the wrong debate. There was talk of thickness, of school milk, of jause and so on. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that was already on the verge of the issue. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] You're Salzburger, but I don't know you're a slalom driver. You really tried to find anything negative in this law here, then you stopped at some flags and then, of course, quickly slipped out several times. As far as feed is concerned, they are regulated. Your suggestion is that the feed should not be regulated. That this is a reason for your rejection shows that you really try to find a hair in the soup so that you don't have to agree! The claim that security is not guaranteed if agricultural councils do so is unsustainable. Please go to Salzburg and tell your councils there that if the federal government transfers something to the countries to competence, it is a threat! I'd like to join you as a little girl! I have to say: I am already looking forward to this discussion! This debate has then taken place in a similar way with the Greens. You just don't want to agree to this big law! On the one hand, it is stressed how positive the EU harmonisation is and so on and so on, but there is a little bit of a fact that you do not have to agree. Really shot the bird, but Mrs Schasching has: With regard to the amendment we have tabled, it has risen to say that it is “silenceless. ” [[Abg. Shasching: The procedure!]] I've read this carefully: This is about the suggestion of two federal states regarding the collection of fees. As the word “silenceless” to try, I believe that this is really too deep into the dramatic box. Even deeper into the dramatic box you have, when you have said that this law endangers health at all – you have found it specifically with regard to food supplements; these are, in doubt, medicines; you know, because you are a member of the Health Committee – and you simply leave this huge law aside and do not want to see the enormous successes in this regard. Actually, I would have expected you to have a little gesture of benevolence, but it must be like this: You try to say that everything is bad, dangerous, silent and so on. On the other hand, I say: This law ensures the world-class quality of Austrian food, and I am proud of this law!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8005	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8027	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would be proud of this law if it were the right answer to the food crisis in 2001 – I remember BSE, the pig mast scandal – if the consequences of the abuses, for example, which promoted a parliamentary survey on the various criminal behaviour in the field of food law, were to be highlighted. Mrs. Minister! You have a chance – still! –: Make a better law! The current law is a summary of the transfer of EU standards, the current law is a great convergence of regulatory empowerments, the current law is inconceivable where it concerns the basic rights of consumers. Mr Rasinger, our criticism in detail: First: We need better labelling, transparent, legible labelling, so that we can eat properly and eat the right thing. Secondly, We need practically a label on how the animals are kept. This is about quality, and it is about strengthening good farms, which also practice close-to-natural animal husbandry. Thirdly, we want a concentration of competence of all the agents in the health sector. In our opinion, the Minister for Agriculture should not have the last word in the field of food safety. Fourthly, we want the inclusion of feed control. It is here, as you have said – from the stable to the table, from the field to the table – that is, to have everything in one hand in the control. There is a very central point in the feed sector, and it has also been due to the fact that, as a scandal, the media and the people were employed in 2001. So we want to include feed control – the law does not provide for that. We also want uniform penalties in feed and food law, and we also want reporting on food supplements. We are also lacking the obligation to provide information in the case of health-related information on advertising companies. We lack the strict separation of control veterinarian and care doctor. It is a fundamental issue of serious control, but that is not enshrined in this law either. We want that there are still judicial penalties for the sale of depraved and misproduced foods, and that has now been declared a purely administrative penalty. We also want mandatory control reports. We also want information and information to be provided to consumers by law. It is in your sense, Mrs. Minister, that people really develop more awareness in this area, and this should also be taken into account in this law: the information and information requirement for consumers. We also want private laboratories to report if there is a suspicion of health risk. There is an blatant step back in relation to the Food Act of 1975. We still have the reporting obligation in the 75s Act. Now you delete the reporting obligation – a clear step back. We want, above all, one, Mrs Minister, and there you need to improve the budget: We want a financial and humanised food control! In conclusion, two more figures. You have budgeted €27 million in your budget estimate for the Agency for Health and Food Safety. A similar sum is also provided for in the agricultural sector. But we know – and this is clearly documented this time, also in the budget issue – that we needed 34 million in 2004 for the basic maintenance of control per ministry, and you are now budgeting 27 million. Please, that's 7 million in your resort and 7 million in the farm resort too little! However, these 14 million are in principle necessary for the control of food safety to function at all. Also beyond this law you need money, and therefore our plea: Please, finally, get a proper dotation! Without money, without personnel, that controls, there is no food safety, and the former Prime Minister certainly knows that exactly from 2001. Therefore our scepticism about this new food law, because the basis is not guaranteed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8112	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Chief. 5 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8133	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is rare that three ministers sit in the order, as they were originally responsible for this place, so to speak, in a row – or: I stand. I am referring here to Mrs Prammer, originally responsible for the veterinary field, who is now sitting here as President, the Minister now responsible for this area, Mrs Rauch-Kallat, on the Government Bank, and myself, whom I was responsible for this area from 2000 to 2002. But that's the same way in politics: Many changes are then also “personalised”. I should like to say one thing, Mrs Moser: That those who carry out meat and food investigations at first instance, and those who control, are not separate, is certainly not contained in this law! This separation is the subject of this law and remains the same for good reason, as the inspectors themselves do not control themselves. On the contrary. The national leaders now have the right to take action where the controls in cities with their own statutes do not work, because some of the abuses in the major cities of Austria were no different in the past. That is why I am very pleased that this law also provides for this in these points. Mrs Bundesminister, I also have a great request for you. In the European Union, in the context of the promotion of many sectors in the European Union's countries of war, food safety has, in my opinion, deteriorated. In your ministry lies a draft from the organization “Animals Without Borders”, which, together with the Swiss in Georgia, want to build a corresponding food safety. The European Union is using its money, the Caucasus billions, to directly promote the bankruptcy of the state system. In my opinion, it would be useful to finally promote projects instead of eating budgets. The Georgians have passed a law prescribing slaughter and food control. The European Union agrees to this. However, there is no slaughterhouse throughout the country and very few coldhouses, and these food comes on the way across Ukraine to the European Union. I don't think it can be! I therefore believe that if European countries, such as Switzerland, but also ‘animal doctors without borders’, were to be able to resolve these abuses as a competent organisation by €250 000 for the benefit of Austrian consumers, but also for the benefit of the competitive situation of our agriculture, it would be time to make such requests for support in order to eliminate disease and obtain food properly for the benefit of the people there, but also for the benefit of our people in the run-up to the European Union. I would like to ask you to review this project ‘animal doctors without borders’, because I simply believe that the European Union would be well advised in the interests of safeguarding consumers and in the interests of safeguarding our farmers and our farmers not to rely on legislative measures in advance and to take them as a standard, but to look at the actual implementation of sensible measures provided for in the laws, including the support of control laboratories. At the time when I was responsible for these agendas, we, together with Lithuania, have brought the border stations and border laboratories for the European Union to the latest scientific and scientific knowledge. This cooperation has improved for food safety throughout the European Union. I therefore call on you not only to look at the European and Austrian internal market, but also to adopt, in the case of such promotions, the preliminary strategy to safeguard the interests of consumers and farmers in Europe, to promote such programmes and also to call on the European Union to see this area more comprehensively and not to take the easy way of promoting only deficit-making budgets and not to see that money will then simmer elsewhere. I am very grateful that you mentioned in your speech, Mrs Federal Minister, that we have adopted a committee statement on the difficult problem of food supplements, so that this can be resolved jointly with the Medical Products Act. More than 30 percent of these products come today in postal delivery to Austria and are therefore not subject directly to Austrian legislation. Theoretically, the import is prohibited, but we cannot open any letter, any package and any mail. I therefore believe that we need a legal regulation here in the fight against doping and in the fight against illicit additions to food supplements, as we have outlined in the Committee. Put pressure on this law to reach Parliament in this year and as quickly as possible! The health of the Austrians and the incidents in this area have not only signalled the urgent need for action for all of us in the field of health, but also, when we look at the joint resolution, strengthened the awareness that we all want to work with full steam on this issue.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8188	The next item is the speech by Mr Lacner. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8209	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mrs Rosenkranz and Mr Rasinger, it is of course legitimate for a government party to praise its own government proposal. Everything else would be really amazing. But it is also legitimate, Mrs Rosenkranz, Mr Rasinger, that an opposition shows where a law has flaws, and this law, in our opinion, has flaws that our consumer speaker Maier also pointed out, and that is, of course, legitimate. Jacky Maier also pointed out that there are quite positive approaches to this law. Consider it as a constructive contribution of the opposition that one can get caught up in reducing this law's positive approaches! Wherever we are going – and I assume, Mrs Rosenkranz – to have common similarities, the following is to be said: A law, just a food safety law, is just as good, as well as being controlled. Everything else would be pointless. An efficient control, Mrs Rosenkranz, is now one of the really good facilities in terms of human and financial resources of those control bodies, which are then to control the law, which is to protect consumers. But how does this actually look, Mrs Rosenkranz, Mrs Rauch-Kallat? – The AGES was not necessarily blessed with sufficient financial and human resources so far, that is clear, and it will, of course, make it difficult for PharmMed to be integrated into these AGES in the future. I read in the "Standard" of the 14th century. March that these AGES should have more than 200 employees in the final development process, thus giving the public the impression that there will be a staff increase in this area to signal that the food and pharmaceutical safety of this Federal Government is nevertheless given a high priority, but of course – and the Minister knows that – it is not. 120 employees of the BIfA, the current control authority, and some others from the Ministry will be taken over, so that the increase in staff will probably be limited and, in our view, of course, an efficient control activity in such important areas is not guaranteed, so that is why we cannot give our consent to this law. Another point is the somewhat questionable financial security of this whole story. It is true that, as this article says, there will be a one-time deposit, the rest of the PharmMed will finance itself through admission fees. - It's already starting. The rest, Mrs Colleague, will have to make an annual request from the Minister for Finance, because this is not required by the Federal Finance Act. There's alarm level red for me, Mrs. Colleague! If you have to go to the Minister of Finance in such an important area, the financial resources... – Red is something positive, indeed, Mr Mitterlehner! [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Red you see positive anyway!]] But You might want to listen a little crazy. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: You can see this by the red numbers you have always written!]] – All right, but you know, you were already very strong, Mr. stupid. You were State Secretary, you really have great experience in what it means to write red numbers. They were... – Yes, they were not just red, they were already dark red, Mr. Colleague stupid! [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: Look at my numbers!]] That is why we certainly do not need to hide this comparison. But here too, Mrs Rosenkranz: The financial cover is not guaranteed. The following very briefly: Control rights are permanently undermined by such measures, by such legislation, and we cannot give our consent to them. In conclusion: The motto of this federal government seems to be: Budgetary cosmetics against safety in two main areas, namely food law and pharmaceutical law. That can't be our consent. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8283	Mrs Hellerer is speaking next time. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8304	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! This legislation on food safety and consumer protection now in place introduces a reorganisation of food law. It is also fully in line with EU requirements for harmonising food rights in the EU Member States. This is a law that covers, above all, a very demanding core area. It is about including the entire food chain in this safety concept. Thus, the “From the field to the plate” currency is fully matched. All food business operators are involved. This means that from the primary producer to the consumer, all entrepreneurs active in the food sector are subject to the Food Safety Act. It is also true that registration and authorisation obligations for food business operators will be necessary in the future and that existing control numbers and databases can also be used. With regard to the databases, I would like to say to Mr Pirklhuber: He has reported that there have been major problems with cattle labelling in other EU countries. In Austria, fine work has been done on this matter by farmers. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] You, Mr President, have made this point very briefly, that is right. However, I would like to stress here once again that a data collection is taking place with us, which really has a model effect. This must also be kept for the benefit of the Austrian farmers. This is an exemplary work, which ultimately also benefits consumers. In my opinion, it is particularly important that the Food Safety Act takes account of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is important for the small market sector to be able to have a needs-based scheme and to adopt rules that take account of the specific requirements of the direct marketing of small farmers, so that in the future a board meal or an alm cheese, as our consumers very much appreciate, can be offered. It is also important, in my opinion, for multiple controls to be held and for the integrated control plan to provide an efficient control opportunity for both consumers and producers. There is a food law here which guarantees the safety of food in Austria, but which, above all, continues to ensure the diversity of food supply by small producers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8354	The next speaker is Mr Spindelberger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8377	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I am already concerned about how the government parties deal with the issue of health. Although all of us are aware of the problems facing us in the health field, despite the urgent need for change in the legislation, little is done to eliminate the existing shortcomings. This is also clearly seen in today's Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. It can be seen that the prevailing problems are not treated again or insufficiently. I do not find in this law any improvement in the protection of health and against deception for consumers. Mrs Bundesminister, you know very well about the problem of counterfeit medicines. According to a report of the “standard” of 28. ==References====External links==* Official website The scientists even estimate that this criminal turnover per year is already amazing €23 billion. That's what I'm saying: As a result, all health care professionals must be alarmed when these scientists say that 15 percent of medicines – in Asia and Africa – are already falsified by over 50 percent. If one knows the effects of this criminal action, then one also sees the urgent need for action. It is important not to close your eyes to the fact that hundreds of thousands of people per year have to live because of this worrying development. But the pharmaceutical industry is silent, it does not say anything about it, nor does it give the information it has available to the authorities and not to the World Health Organization at all. We from the SPÖ have not just referred to this urgent problem. There are no amendments to this draft law. In spite of this problem, where is a legal regulation on market control and market surveillance in food, food supplements, medicines or medical products offered via the Internet? – It is not present. After two years of discussions, there are now vague approaches to market observation, but this problem – that is what you have to say – is simply too little. We need to set up a competence centre for pharmacovigilance and food safety at your place of business. We need offers that these transactions are observed on the Internet and a so-called Internet police. We also need legal changes in such a way that the competent authorities responsible for such Internet offers can take samples. We also urgently need joint initiatives at European level to combat this illegal trade in counterfeit or unauthorised medicinal products, with drugs, anabolics and contaminated food supplements. On this question I say: It is not a question of leaning back, but of acting!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8423	The next speaker is Mrs Turkovic-Wendl. Voluntary time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8447	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen at the visitor gallery – especially to the 19th century District greeting! Foreigners in Austria, if they are a guest to us, not only praise the cultural offer, sometimes also sporting successes – see football and table tennis yesterday – but they especially appreciate our wonderful landscape and the wonderful food. If I look at you here, ladies and gentlemen, I know: You appreciate that too! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Austrian food is not only diverse in production and high quality, they simply taste wonderful. What about us? - We know. Responsible for our food products was the Food Law and the Meat Investigation Act of 1975, which, with more than 100 implementing regulations, provided a safety for the consumer. The proposal now before us lays down a new basis for food safety and consumer protection in Austria. This is done in the context of the implementation of the new European food legislation, with 1. In January 2006 the Commission adopted a proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to There was a great deal of effort in the European Community to harmonise official food monitoring across all Member States. A set of rules has been created to allow national authorities to carry out uniform controls. I would like to draw only five regulations from this discussion process: the regulation on food safety and on the establishment of procedures for food safety, those on food hygiene, those on specific hygiene rules for foodstuffs of animal origin, those for official monitoring of products of animal origin intended for human consumption and those on official feed and food controls. The aim of this draft law is to protect the health of the consumer and to protect him from fraud. As an example, I call the emergency slaughter. Only more accidented animals, but healthy, may be slaughtered for meat production. Other key tasks for food safety include: Risk management, risk assessment and risk communication. This will contribute to a concerted approach between the Federal Government and the countries within the framework of the indirect federal administration. In recent years, we know that, Austria has not been affected by feed abuse, but by drug abuse. I also give an example: At the height of the BSE scandal, when no one thinks of beef, let alone than it wanted on the plate, renowned gastronomy companies in Austria have not lost their guests. I asked the host: Why? – The answer came: I know my producers and I know my farmers for decades, they don't cheat on me, and that's what my guests know about eating in my restaurant! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We must, ladies and gentlemen, strictly control – I am absolutely in favour of it – and this new law will contribute to this. But we must also provide those people who, with their clean work that they do for life, do a great job, a credit, a support, a faith and a trust. that they continue to think and make the food we like to consume for our lives.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8523	The next speaker is Mrs Csörgits. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8544	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! This draft law contains some good provisions. Nevertheless, I must repeat again critically that there are insufficient provisions from the point of view of consumers. Consumer protection and improvement of consumer protection are to be sought through the magnifying glass. I would like to address a number of points in particular. First: There is still no concentration of competences on food law, veterinary law and agricultural property law. There are no uniform competences, but from our point of view they should be bundled in the Ministry of Health. We are of the opinion that health aspects are more important than that it is important to focus on the rights and opportunities of consumers. Secondly, we do not believe that there are effective sanctions in relation to infringements of food law. In particular, the introduction of minimum criminal heights would be important and necessary. It would be equally crucial, however, that there should be an opportunity where a company can profit from the profit – because it sells other products – to profit from the profits as well. This would, for example, be a protection for those companies that are conforming to the laws. I would also like to say on this occasion that the average administrative penalty is currently €70. I leave it to the House to decide whether this is a high punishment or not. In my opinion, it is a low punishment. The third point I criticise is the fact that the term “corruption” in relation to food is not comprehensively guaranteed. Although the presentation shows health damage, the term “corruption” is missing. We all know very well that between corrupt foods and health damage is a very narrow grotto. Therefore, it would have been necessary to make better assurances and better legal formulations in this area too. The fourth criticism is a clarification of the importance of markings on the products. We all know that they are not easy to read and often not understandable to consumers and consumers. There is also no improvement in this respect in the draft. The fifth criticism is the introduction of a reporting obligation and improved control possibilities in relation to health-related advertising. The withdrawal of the authorisation procedure is due to occur. We know for ourselves that when we watch advertising on television, people are often pre-glowed, which is healthy and good for the body. If you ask that more closely, then it is a matter of saying that the opposite is often true. The last point, which is very important to me, is the fact that we demand the company's administrative responsibility as a legal person and not the respective branch leader. The company must be used for liability and not for employees. We know from individual sectors that very strong pressure is being exerted on workers. We feel that this is discriminatory for the employees there. It is therefore necessary to use the company in the context of non-compliance with this law. It's a shame, ladies and gentlemen! There would have been a chance to make an even better law here. However, you have not taken advantage of this opportunity, and they have made it pass in the negative sense, especially for consumers of that country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8600	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Scheucher-Pichler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8621	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen in the House! I think it is positive that our predecessors, the speakers of the opposition, do not discuss everything negative, but generally acknowledge that this government template is a very good one that ultimately ensures an EU-wide harmonisation of food monitoring. This EU adjustment is particularly important, Mrs Csörgits, in the sense of consumer protection, where there are very significant improvements. That must be all EU standard. This is also an EU standard. We are building on the European Commission's White Paper of 2000. However, I also say quite clearly, particularly referring to what Mr Maier said at the outset, that, when it comes to healthy nutrition, we must also address self-responsibility and ultimately demand and need this self-responsibility of each individual. You can't order that by law alone. At this point, I would also like to thank Mrs Bundesminister Maria Rauch-Kallat, who, in her term of office, has done a lot of positive things in terms of education and information work, in terms of exercise and healthy nutrition. - Thank you. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The law ensures continuous control of the food chain, including primary production, meat inspection and hygiene rules. This traceability of food from the field and from the stable in the sense of the health aspect and in the sense of consumer protection is important. Control from production to enjoyment has already been addressed today. This means that all stages of production, including trade, which I would like to stress, are included in the responsibility for safe food, for safe cosmetics, for safe toys. I think it is very important that this continuous control of free movement of goods is guaranteed. The strictest law is worth nothing if there are no controls. But this not only depends on the level of punishment, it is also about trust. We have this confidence in our entrepreneurs. Especially in relation to: Double-tracking, for controls, for linking existing files, there will be more efficiency, even in medium-sized use. A Europe-wide rapid warning system – the Minister has already pointed out – is a common approach to crisis management: These are important things that are focused on. I would also like to stress that the situation of the local food industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, has been taken into account without forgetting the objective of food safety. I think that the traditional methods of production of small farms have also been taken into account. This too is very important to me. Only together with the producers will we be able to find a basis of confidence in the sense that our consumers prefer the domestic products and those who are “in” during the season, as the Federal Minister said. I think that is also a very important aspect.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8675	The next speaker is Mr Krainer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8697	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! In my speech, I will focus on the issue of public and transparency. We consider it necessary for the public to be informed of identified food risks and concerns. If checks are carried out and it is found that there are violations, including labelling obligations and the like, the public should be informed. § 40 of the new Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, however, standards this obligation very limited and thus does not even comply with the European Union's basic food regulation, because only food and non-food are covered. I can quote from the basic food regulation. It's clear: ‘Where a sufficient suspicion exists that a food or feed may present a risk to human or animal health, the authorities shall, without prejudice to the applicable national or Community provisions on access to documents, on the basis of the nature, severity and extent of the risk, take appropriate steps to inform the public of the nature of the health risk, including, as far as possible, the food or feed or the type of food or feed, the potential related risk and the measures taken or taken to prevent, limit or eliminate the risk.’ This law covers only the food sector and not the feed sector. It is necessary to regulate this even better. In our view, however, this information obligation of the Federal Minister for Health and Women should be significantly extended. We believe that the public is informed, at least in the case of repetition, of those manufacturers or dealers who commit infringements of labelling rules, such as incorrect indication of origin or incorrect labelling of genetically modified products. Otherwise, the following: Each infringement actually brings a competitive advantage to the dealer or manufacturer. If it does not insist that genetically modified organisms are in it, it never insists on the Public. The manufacturer or distributor shall pay a small fine for this. If he wrote it, he would probably sell much less. To that end, we believe that an extension of this information obligation is absolutely necessary. Unfortunately, you disagree, Mrs. Federal Minister. I may quote from a request we have made to you. We asked: Keep Do you continue to believe that the concrete results of genetic engineering marking checks with the designation of the products and manufacturers concerned will not be published? – Your answer was again very disappointing: The publication of companies subject to official controls for infringement of the EU Regulation's labelling rules, i.e. genetic engineering labelling regulation, will also not be permitted under the new law. In our view, this is wrong, which is absolutely changed. In my opinion, the public has a right to know who it was lying about, from which manufacturer it was lying, and the other manufacturers who mark it properly have a right that the competitor does not also enjoy a competitive advantage. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] The fact that this opinion is expressed by a party that attaches itself to the market economy is extremely surprising. In order for a market economy to function – that is what Stiglitz has found and, after all, the Nobel Prize for it – it requires a balanced information for all market participants. This is not because you do not sufficiently inform market participants about what is happening on the market – you could! – and with that, you are really distorting the market economy and protecting those who cheat or cheat on consumers! - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8758	The next item is Mrs Mikesch's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8779	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We live in an increasingly globalized and networked world. There are streams of goods throughout continents, and food also traverses entire continents before they land on the table with consumers. Therefore, on the one hand, a country needs to be aware of the domestic products and on the other hand a modern and efficient food law. – The new Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act has created exactly one. At the same time, Austria's food production is very structured thanks to God. Many of our food and also the meat are produced and processed by farmers and businesses. Therefore, certain reliefs have been made in the implementation of European rules in order to strengthen our small and medium-sized enterprises in the economy and in agriculture. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This continues to promote traditions and good Austrian Heurigen culture. The alm cheese and the Brettljause will continue to take an important place in our society in the future. Ladies and gentlemen! The quality of Austrian food is excellent. This is particularly so because we have the relationship between the two sides of industry. a co-operation between ducents and processing companies. I thank you for this partnership between the economy – especially our small and medium-sized enterprises, and the farmers. This needs to be promoted and supported. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Austrian products are 1 A in Europe. All the more important is quality control to keep and secure this standard. But we must start with ourselves on this issue. The best domestic food quality and the best control will not do anything if people are not willing to purchase our products. We need to strengthen awareness of our excellent domestic products in people. This will also help and secure rural structures. The small family farms of the small rural structure are the guarantee of our healthy food of our reputation, which Austria enjoys in Europe and all over the world. We can be proud of this, that is living sustainability! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The new Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act directs the control from the field to the plate into new tracks. To date, controls have also been excellent, but only by creating control plans and a liaison body in the Ministry of Health will double-tracks be prevented in the future. In addition, the quality management of official control comes. The answer to the current developments – the BSE crisis has shown – is a regionally small-structured economy with jobs and on-site productions of food. The family farm, the local supplier, provides the best quality and safe food. The new Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act supports this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8849	The next item is Mrs Silhavy's speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8870	Madam President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! We have an ever-increasing market in the field of novel foods, such as food supplements, which are offered and praised in various forms – which is probably a very lucrative business for many manufacturers. When I went to Vienna yesterday, I heard that a new means should soon be put on the market again. If you have an allergy to histamine, you can soon buy a capsule that you just have to swallow, and already you're supposed to enjoy everything as much as you can if you don't have allergy. There are countless wellness products, it is advertised and advertised with anti-aging products. As far as I am concerned, there is a system for health-related advertising, which is clearly defined and also comprehensible for us as consumers. Mrs Scheucher-Pichler spoke of personal responsibility. I think, however, that self-responsibilities of consumers can only be demanded if it is clear what is being offered. If I can't judge the product because there are only some great commercials on it and I'm not necessarily a specialist in this field – otherwise I would also be active in this industry and not do anything else – then that means to me, it It is precisely these regulations that are missing. One can only demand responsibility where this is actually possible. Mrs. Federal Minister! We have already noted in the debate in the Committee that we consider some premises to be really necessary, namely: the introduction of the reporting obligation of entrepreneurs for health-related information on products and for advertising claims before the start of the placing on the market of products, an obligation on companies to provide a product-related scientific evidence of the health argumentation and advertising claim used, which in the end also allows for control, because without these I can only believe what is on it again, but do not judge whether it is actually in it. It would be essential for the consumer to have the opportunity, as it were, to read in a public register about these products and the advertising claims used, especially if one could possibly already prove that the misleading claims are. It would also be important for us to carry out enhanced controls and priority controls. I think Mr Maier has proved here in the House and also you, Mrs. Federal Minister, often enough that he has repeatedly found, as part of his activity, the consumer protection of the Chamber of Labour, that misguided information is given in the area of wellness products, information that has not at last kept what is on the packaging – in the good case! – but in the worst case, perhaps also health was not really beneficial, because the consumer/consumer has assumed other conditions. We would have expected one to take advantage of the opportunity that this bill would give consumers more safety by creating more transparency, but not that one might go to the knees before a lobby that has other interests, and that the presentation would not be implemented in the required form.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8921	The next item is the report by Mr Eßl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e8943	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, We need food to live, and therefore it is also justified that we talk about food safety. Today we are discussing the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act. This law will replace the Food Law from 1975 and the Meat Investigation Act from 1982, it is intended to comply with an EU regulation and implement the objective of the European Union to achieve a broad harmonisation of food law in all Member States accordingly. I think it is very, very important that this also happens, because it is not clear to consumers and producers that there are so many different rules in each EU Member State. This new law already takes account of this. The food for our fellow citizens in Austria is produced for the most part in Austria and comes from the local farmers. With its eco-social The market economy has so far been able to produce high-quality products, and they will continue to do so in the future. However, farmers need practical solutions, and I think that this new law, which regulates primary production, but also concerns processing and trade, can provide the appropriate basis for this. It is also important that practical conditions have been created, for example, that registration numbers already awarded are used for this part in the future. It is important for me that direct marketing and also the traditional methods of manufacturers are possible in the future. It is important that primary products can be delivered by the producer to the final consumer, also to local restaurants and that traditional methods can be used, as has already been said. It has already been pointed out several times: Almkäse, Brettljause and the like will also be possible in the future. The consumer wants this, it will be possible! I am surprised to learn from the opposition series that the labelling of how animals are kept is to be done. I want to know how this is supposed to work in practice. For example, what should be on the milk pack, how the animals have been kept when the milk has been collected from 500 farms into a tanker? Overall, the opposition requires a strengthening of the directives, a strengthening of controls. If you want to, I'll tell you: This leads straight to the agricultural industry. We do not want to, therefore such things will not be implemented! With this Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, our Austrian citizens have a modern law that gives safety, and they can continue to eat with a calm conscience and, above all, with the enjoyment of Austrian food they buy from our local farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9000	The next item is Mrs Schahrer's speech. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9021	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm dealing with the food label below. It is true that the powerful customer is in demand and is also more and more required. Consumers are confronted with new food products on a daily basis and are required to assess the quality of the food offered. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is a need for an instrument to address the increasing supply of food. According to an AK survey, consumers want binding indications of origin, want mandatory nutritional labelling, and 84 percent of respondents want a comprehensive labelling of all products from genetically modified raw materials, including products from animals fed with genetically modified food. Mrs. Minister! For health reasons alone, such as those with food allergies, high blood pressure, increased blood fat and uric acid levels, diabetics and so on, there is clearly a higher need for information. The current declaration of foodstuffs, the un- a summary and, above all, missing information does not contribute to a higher health awareness of the diet. In particular, children – the most recent group of buyers – and older people cannot understand the current information, and not only older people have problems reading the labels at all. Although the current Food Labelling Regulation provides that food must be clearly visible and clearly legible, for around two thirds of the products examined by the AK, the labels were not clearly designed. Unreadable fuel scripts, often only one millimeter or even tinyr, make life difficult for consumers and, above all, prevent them from being sufficiently informed. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the case of ads, there is no punishment for the producers, or only for the producers, at the ridiculous level of about €70. Mrs Bundesminister, you have so far failed to arrange for increased focus controls on food labelling. In the presentation of the Food Safety and Consumer Protection Act, Mrs. Federal Minister, you would have had the duty to define precise food labellings that – as expected by consumers – go beyond the previous regulations. Unfortunately, this has not happened. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Consumers have a right to increase the clarity of food labelling. It's useless if you make yourself today and say: People should buy the right thing at the right time, eat the right thing, the right amount and so on! In this presentation, Mrs Federal Minister, you could have done the right thing for consumers! Now you still have the chance to anchor this important label.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9082	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9103	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister Maria Rauch-Kallathat said in her speech that it is also a matter of personal responsibility. – Yes, it is about personal responsibility, and this bill must be fulfilled by people with life! I can only give my colleague Scharer and colleague Silhavy the way: We have put in place the necessary measures with this bill, and it would be good not to make a negative vote again, Mr President. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: The opposite is true!]] Because it is a matter of personal responsibility, it is certainly also the right place here and the right time when Mrs. Minister says products should be consumed seasonally. In Styria, for example, individual regions strive to become pleasure regions with different products. My home region has also been trying for a long time to become a slow-food region, by the way, the first in Austria. In this region, 16 municipalities that produce high-quality food are also voluntarily marketed in the sense that they bring good products to the man, the woman, to the consumers or also to the host and to the markets. I think that today's draft law will bring us a little closer to the goal. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a look at the future at this point and say: Of course, wishes are still open, such as – also from the region just mentioned – that food that is freshly prepared are marked in the gastronomy. In relation to health and sustainable living, I would like to come to another point that is very, very important to me. As the Styrian Members, I am particularly pleased that this government has succeeded or that a breakthrough has been achieved – you have captured it, thank you for your thought! – and there is an advanced expansion of the Phyrn–Schober–Spielfeld-Axis. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Semmering!]] The rapid expansion that Mrs. Waltraud Klasnic has repeatedly called for by 2012 is now being realized. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: 2020, I congratulate you! Very competent!]] The Semmering Base Tunnel is now being realized, Mr. Collegue. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: What does this have to do with the Food Safety Act?]] This means that Semmering and Koralm tunnels will now form an inseparable unit on the new South Railway, which in turn means a further step towards creating sustainable living space.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9183	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9204	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will not agree to the proposal under consideration, because much remains to be done, food will not become safer, European regulations will be implemented incompletely and will not become more transparent. On the contrary. Also, absurd inequalities between agricultural and food law continue to exist. Although the two laws have many similarities, there are significant differences in key points, especially in the case of threatened penalties, contradictions are found which are hardly justified in the value of the injured property. In any event, prevention is more important than control and the use of the criminal framework. Sustained and unenforced penalties will not prevent food scandals and feed scandals in the future. There are also problems with the competences of enforcement, which are shared between the Ministries of Agriculture and Health and, when it comes to the implementation of criminal provisions, with the Ministry of Justice. It is precisely the different assessment of similar facts that clearly indicates that the draft legislation is not in line. It is also striking that different terminology becomes visible, in particular in terms of placing on the market. If such basic terms are understood differently in such related jurisdictions as food law and business law, legal certainty is undoubtedly not guaranteed. A proposal from the Social Democrats, supported by experts, is now being negotiated, taking into account European and national needs, to propose solutions. Among other things, he provides: the transfer of competence on agricultural resources, in particular feed, to the Ministry of Health; the legal definition of subsidiarity; clear penalties for infringements of European law; the creation of a uniform terminology; equalisation of criminal threats; the introduction of minimum penalties; binding revision and sampling plans; the obligation to notify the public; ensuring the enforceability of the provisions; and legalisation of administrative penalties by the Ministry of Justice. Ladies and gentlemen! They will not get under control of the forthcoming problems with the new law, but are nevertheless not too good to reject our proposals for improvement permanently – and this to the detriment of consumers. Ladies and gentlemen! Your honesty makes you blind, you should sometimes think about it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9287	The next speaker was Mrs Franz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9309	Madam President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! One of the most brilliant issues of our time is certainly our food. At a time when we in the European Union have a large number of food on the shelves to choose from, it became necessary to take general measures on food safety and consumer protection. The EU has recently made great efforts to harmonise official food monitoring in its Member States. It is now possible for the national authorities, from 1. In January 2006, uniform controls were carried out. This is therefore necessary and important, since, for example, 586 food businesses have been closed in the Czech Republic alone since the beginning of 2003 for non-compliance with EU standards. Our new Food Safety Act is based on the new EU legislation. According to the principle – we have already heard this today – “from the field to the plate” is finally a continuous control of the free movement of goods in relation to safe food in the internal market. One essential aspect of food safety is the traceability of food and its ingredients at all stages of the food chain. Delivery also plays an increasingly important role. The proof of origin is essential and is transparent by this law. The multi-annual control plans now envisaged will provide a broad range of security. We also achieve the prevention of multiple controls by coordinating the control plans and the objectives. Today's technology makes it possible to conduct open risk communication with companies, authorities and the end-user. This will also ensure that: that absolutely safe food is on the market to prevent the risk of health and consumer deception. I would like to mention that last year, at the meeting of Austrian food chemists in Bregenz, which was organised by the Food Research Institute of the State of Vorarlberg, the Society of Austrian Chemicals and the Federal Ministry of Health and Women, the working groups established excellent foundations for this law. It's a good law, we get food safety. I would like to point out the following: Buy You Austrian food! – They buy food safety and excellent quality for themselves, you can enjoy this quality, and thereby also support our local farmers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9360	The next item is the speech by Mr Grillitsch. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9381	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen. This house has been dealing with food safety for more than 30 years, with the meat investigation law and thus in reality offers Austrians, consumers comprehensible food. This is a point that we now need to ensure in the sense of European harmonisation, and we need to develop this security further. That is why I am very glad that we have the opportunity today to give consumers this safety of comprehensibleness, so that they know who is where... – Please, Mr. Colleague, what do you think? – I have [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I don't think you can call it that!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: He doesn't know that himself!]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: I think you can't call it that!]] You didn't understand, but I never understand that's the problem. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ: This is your problem!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We want to provide safety and protection for consumers in Austria, but we also need this security for our farmers so that this perceptibility and thus this rural structure can also be ensured in the future. We have landed a great deal here about a year ago, as I believe, with the uniform Federal Animal Protection Act, which was adopted unanimously here in Parliament. But in Austria, we have not only this Federal Animal Protection Act, but also cattle databases, pig databases, the individual identification. Ladies and gentlemen! All these are prerequisites for consumers to understand production and make the products recognizable. I would therefore ask you to agree to our motion for a resolution, which I shall now submit. This motion for a resolution deals with the recognition of consumers so that they can quickly find Austrian identity on the products. I mean, it's a crucial point that red and white red will be clearly identified in the purchase today. Therefore, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I would ask you, as in the Federal Animal Protection Act, to agree with this request in full.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9486	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Grillitsch is sufficiently supported, duly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9559	The next item is Mrs Marek's speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9580	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This draft law is in line with the growing need of Austrians for healthy food, according to which production and origin must be fully comprehensible. Especially among young families, this awareness is increasingly pronounced. It is already very clearly taken care of healthy and appropriately produced foods when shopping. Also contained in the Food Safety Act were and are regulations for cosmetics and toys. In these areas, the existing regulations are continued. In recent years, there have always been changes and adjustments that have taken account of new production methods and countries of origin as well as research results. At European level, a reorientation of a toy directive is currently under discussion, which will of course also be relevant to Austria. It would be particularly consumer-friendly to go in the direction of product liability, which would mean improvement for consumers in this extremely sensitive area, in terms of the health of our children. The jurisdiction for toys in the Food Act is historically conditional, by previously completely different means of production than today, therefore a transfer to the Product Liability Act would be useful and useful. We may be able to use the new EU directive to make appropriate changes here and to think of a reorientation.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9623	The next item is the speech by Mr Keussnigg. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9644	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Appreciate High House! We now have a very constructive, good, very objective debate, and after these hours I am incomprehensible why you do not vote in favour of the opposition here. The course of the discussion does not justify this attitude. I don't understand! [[Abg. Grade: Where have you been in the last two hours?]] We also know – and this has also been critically addressed – that some further development will be necessary, but that is exactly what makes the construction that has been chosen possible, including the form of a framework law with the corresponding regulatory empowerments. In line with the development of the situation, of course, the regulations will also develop, and it is possible to deal with future developments very up-to-date. I would like to say a word about the controls. In this respect, too, this law and legislation also introduce new ways, in the form of integrated control plans, which cover the entire value chain, from food to feed, to animal welfare and animal health – but according to the motto: Not double and not triple control, but when it goes, together and integrated. I think this is a great progress in the sense: As much as necessary, but as little and as slim as possible. This ultimately helps everyone involved the most. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, I would like to thank you very much for responding to the situation of small producers in a very sensitive way, because nothing goes faster than to define excessive conditions to push small producers out of the market. This has been resolved very well in this area, and I would like to thank you very much, Mrs Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9685	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9708	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I had to speak briefly because today, as is known, a motion for an amendment by Mr Riener and Mr Main on improving enforcement has been tabled in particular aspects of control. I would like to say that we are going to give this our assent. Mr Keussnigg, it is not that we reject everything in this novel, but on many points – and we have discussed them in detail today – we have made it clear where the shortcomings are, I do not need to repeat that. We will vote in favour of this amendment, but on this occasion I would like to point out that the Federal State of Upper Austria has made far-reaching critical comments on funding, namely the financing of BSE research costs. The total cost of this has been transferred to countries, and this is just as problematic as the increase in the number of appeals to the independent administrative Senates, which will cause significantly higher costs than provided for in this law. This is one, ladies and gentlemen. The second relates to Mr Grillitsch's request, but I would like to make one more comment on the comments made by Mr Eßl, who said: More control leads to more agricultural industry. Mr Eßl, you should urgently correct this statement, because that is entirely inconvenient. We are now tabling a resolution on food safety. However, what you are calling for here, Mr Grillitsch, is very much in keeping with our intention, but it is not enough, in an essential point, that animal welfare standards should also be marked and that, second, a designation of origin, a designation of origin at European level must first be met. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gritish]] [[Abg. Grillisch: But that's where you came up late!]] You know how we know that this is currently considered to be a distortion of competition. I therefore make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[Abg. Grill: Mr Pirklhuber, stay with the truth!]] [[Quoted print version removed]] That is our motion for a resolution. I'll ask you to give him your consent. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9798	Mr Eßl, Member of the Commission. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. – Ladies and gentlemen, you know the GOG provisions. 2 minutes speaking time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9822	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Mr Pirklhuber claimed that I would have said that more control would lead to more agricultural industry. The fact is that I said in my remarks that your side is demanding more and more requirements and controls. And more and more requirements and controls actually lead to more agricultural industry.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9850	No one has made any mention of this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 823 of the supplements. Hiezu have the Deputies Riener, Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment. In view of the fact that there is only one request, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt in 823 of the Supplements, taking account of the amendment tabled by Mrs Riener, Mag. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote in favour of this report. I would ask those members of the House who give him the consent to give a corresponding sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask the ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading, agree to the draft law to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Grillitsch, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on consumer information through the labelling of domestic products and the creation of equal opportunities for competition for domestic agricultural products. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who have approved this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. - That's the majority. This request has been accepted. (E 92.) We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mrs Pirklhuber, ladies and gentlemen, on the labelling of animal food. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who give this motion for a resolution a sign of approval. – This is the minority. This motion for a resolution is therefore rejected. [[13:32:34]] 2. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment 543/A (E) by Mrs Werner Amon, MBA, Mag. Dr Magda Bleckmann, colleagues on the implementation of the results of the reform dialogue (834 d.b.) 3rd. Point Report by the Committee on Education on Amendment No 557/A (E) by Mr Dieter Brosz, Members and colleagues on the guarantee of freedom of education (835 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9959	We now come to points 2 and 3 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Klubobmann, Dr. Gusenbauer, was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 9 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e9989	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! This agenda item gives the opportunity to take stock of the educational debate in Austria since the presentation of the PISA study, which has given anything but a flattering result for the Austrian school system. I do not want to say that we have achieved some progress in recent months. You will remember that at the beginning of the PISA debate, the Federal Minister meant: The main blame is for parents and less for the school system itself. In the beginning, it also meant that one would not have to fall into depression immediately, it would be all right anyway, and it did not actually place a great need for reform. In the meantime, this finding has changed a lot, especially through contributions from many experts, including contributions from the Future Commission and its chairman Dr. Haider. I believe that there is general consensus in Austria today that we need to reach a greater degree of reform on such a central issue as the question of education, if we really want to make sure that our children and young people get the best chance for their further life. Therefore, the debate on the PISA study and the public results achieved so far should be considered as an absolute success. This offers the opportunity to actually reorganise the Austrian school system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It has been shown in this discussion that the lack of reform in recent years has depended, among other things, on the fact that most of the school laws require a two-thirds majority in Parliament. I fully share the view of the chairman of the Future Commission, who meant that the existence of the two-thirds majority, together with the well-informed legalisation of the school system and the general bureaucracy of the school system, has been an essential and pressing obstacle to a progressive and reasonable school policy. I therefore particularly welcome the fact that, after several months of discussion, we now come to the common view that this two-thirds majority reform blockage in Parliament is being removed, thus opening the way for a reform and for a real reorganisation of the Austrian school system, which also meets modern requirements. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The discussion on the abolition of the two-thirds majority, which will be held once again, has preceded a review procedure, which took place on 15 May. In March, many groups were given the opportunity to comment and comment on this question. I think it is in line with a developed parliamentary discussion that we are taking up concerns, fears and objections that have been raised in the review process and are trying to find positive solutions to this. What were the main objections to this review procedure? – First of all, many people and institutions attach importance to the fact that in the future there will not be any school money in Austria to ensure that all children and young people have the same access to educational opportunities. I think it is important that we anchor this principle, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Secondly, we should insist that the objectives of the school system are primarily to be achieved through a public school and that, of course, the principle of compulsory schooling must also be maintained. In addition, many have expressed the wish that we should develop a common goal of what the Austrian school system should do and what contribution the Austrian school system should make to the future of children and young people. I think, after we have discussed this question in the Convention, I believe, that it is useful to set such a goal at the beginning of a Constitutional Law, in which it is admitted that, regardless of the social, material and financial situation, all children and young people should have the same opportunities and that it is after all a task of the school system that these material differences, these differences of origin, are overcome – especially when the result of the PISA study states that there is no other school system in Europe in which differences of origin have such an impact on the educational career of children and young people! I therefore believe it is important that we confess that school has the task of ensuring equal opportunities for children and young people regardless of origin, and I expressly welcome the fact that this has been expressed by many bodies in the review process. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! There have also been proposals for anchoring the ethical and moral principles to which we confess ourselves into such an objective. Because it is ultimately about developing a democratic society in Austria with the corresponding opportunities for participation, including the different political, religious and other tendencies that people have in our country. I think it is important to take this diversity of society into account by the school system to a corresponding extent. That is why I did not understand that the German Government was not prepared to look for the conversation here and to address these arguments in the objections that have, in particular, come from churches and religious communities. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go, we also conducted the talks...!]] For I believe that if we take a big step now and say that the way for major reforms is to be set free, it makes sense for us to take as many in our country as possible along this path and to reduce existing fears and fears. That is why, Mrs Federal Minister, I think it is important that, when we take such a big step in real new land, we try to achieve a broad consensus not only in Parliament but also in the population. By the way, this is not so difficult. We from Social Democracy have sought and found this dialogue, and we have prepared a series of applications for today's meeting, which set out the principles: a common objective for the school system, the guarantee of compulsory schooling, the freedom of schooling and the school as a public matter and the non-in-question position of concordat regulations as regards religious education and private religious schools. [[Abg. Murauer:... the young socialists!]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! All these points are not a restriction on the desire to reform, not a single restriction! If we confess freedom of education: What reform is blocked with this? - None! When we confess to school as a public matter: Is this a way of blocking a reform? - No! If we confess that we comply with the provisions of the Concordat: What reform will be hampered by this? [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! If we agree on a common goal for the school system, the school has a major role to play in the distribution of educational opportunities: It does not prevent any positive reform! On the contrary: By giving people these safeguards, we are a big step forward in education policy, because we could not only agree here in the House on this, but also because we would find a broad consensus in society. I ask you to: Consider You do not ask this question by your small-cared party political glasses! [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Think about the future of our children and young people, and think of a new consensus in education policy in our country. [[Abg. Großruck: Gusenbauer himself...!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The elimination of the two-thirds majority is a chance, it is not a guarantee. The elimination of the two-thirds majority is a prerequisite for the implementation of reasonable educational reforms. But if I hear, Mrs Federal Minister, what you announced yesterday in other school laws, I find in this list not a single point that would take into account the claim of a truly fundamental reform. I find nothing for the individual promotion of students, I find nothing in your proposals for early promotion in the language field, I find nothing to overcome differences of origin in the school. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Mrs Bundesminister, your points yesterday as a work programme do not correspond to the claim to carry out a truly large reform of Austrian schooling. That is why I say quite openly: The elimination of the two-thirds majority offers a chance, but with the points you have mentioned so far, do not take advantage of this opportunity at least. [[Abg. Friend: You asked for this!]] To believe that individual schools and objects should be renamed and that this should be a reform – ladies and gentlemen, these are, at best, cosmetic reforms, but not really what the Austrian school urgently needs and what especially the children and young people in our country need! One thing has to do with it: We are also negotiating the budget these days, and you do not provide additional resources in the education budget for the urgently needed initiatives that our school needs. That is why I say quite openly: It is not a guarantee that the two-thirds majority will be removed, but that is not a guarantee under the existing majority conditions in this House! It is likely that other political majority groups in Austria will need to benefit from a major educational reform in the future. This government has missed this opportunity so far.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10128	Next item is the report by Mr Amon. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10149	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The efforts of Mr. Klubobmann, Dr. Gusenbauer, to give a state-supporting speech, have clearly failed. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You know, Dr. Gusenbauer... [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] I don't even use this for me, but thank you for doing this compliment to me. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] Dr. Gusenbauer, your main problem in education policy is your lack of credibility. You're not here whenever you're involved. This was already the case with floods when you continued your vacation, and it was of course so when the big and really excellent reform dialogue on education was held. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Where was Dr. Gusenbauer? – Dr. Gusenbauer was campaigning, he made his “start-clear” tour, he was in Baden. It is quite interesting that the SPÖ has an excellent homepage – I really have to congratulate on it. “Startklar.at” is her name, and there you are always absolutely up to date: If Dr. Gusenbauer is on the go somewhere, on this homepage is immediately a photo on which Dr. Gusenbauer can be seen. I'm interested, I'm looking at that. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] But on that very day, that is, on the 14th. In February, when the reform dialogue took place, you apparently issued the instructions: No photos may be published on this day. Looks like you've been bothering the bad conscience. I've been looking at this a little bit more closely. A photo was published on the website of the SPÖ Baden and you can see it in the election campaign. [[The speaker shows a photo.]] [[Oh, call at the ÖVP.]] In the election campaign you were on that day when all the high-ranking people in this country were engaged in education! At the time, you were on the road and fought for election. This is your credibility problem, Dr. Gusenbauer! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You also have a credibility problem because you say today: This debate gives the opportunity to take stock of the second PISA study from the point of view. Yes, that's what I think, because PISA means to you: "Suddenly active in school matters" – that is, for you, PISA. For us, education policy started long before that. They have apparently overlooked one of the highly successful upper-level reform of the generally forming high schools that Elisabeth Gehrer has implemented, for which one can still congratulate today, ladies and gentlemen! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] They totally overlook the thousands of additional places that took place in the years Elisabeth Gehrer as Minister of Education at the higher schools. They ignore the reform of the curriculum, which has experienced a new breakdown in key areas and enlargement areas. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] They completely overlook the preparation for the conversion of the educational academies towards the educational universities. They derive from the PISA study a total reform of the Austrian school system, and I have to say to you that you have not read the PISA study as much as the applications that are under discussion today. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Just so much understood...!]] Because if one of the PISA studies is not derived, then it is a total reform of the Austrian education system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This fits you in your ideological stuff – that may be already – but it has nothing to do with a responsible education policy at all. Because what are the statements of the PISA study? – We have weaknesses in reading among the 15-year-olds, that is true. However, we also have a very high proportion of children with migrant background, and that is why the topic of language early promotion is a particularly important issue. This too is in a resolution today, ladies and gentlemen. It is about the validity of the diplomas, and we will ensure them by introducing education standards that are long in preparation. School supervision is further developed towards an evaluation facility. All these are questions that we are very serious about, Dr. Gusenbauer! What we are certainly not going to do is to implement your unity that you want to do in education policy. This is not in question for us. We support a performance-oriented, differentiated education system that takes children and young people from where they stand with their interests, their gifts and their inclinations. And the templates that are made deal exactly with those topics that show us PISA. One last word about your licensing in connection with the two-thirds majority: Mr Dr. Gusenbauer, you seem to believe that you can license here. Once you are for the general abolition of the two-thirds majority, then a point comes to your mind that speaks against it, then Dr. Niederwieser, who describes the platform against the abolition of the two-thirds majority as “unchristian action” and more. Dr. Gusenbauer! If this is to be a responsible education policy, then the citizens will take a look at themselves. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: They will do that with certainty!]] I can tell you: They have often rejected templates here and hidden behind the two-thirds majority. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Which one?]] We won't do that, we'll say: The proof of the pudding is the eating! – and we'll see if you eat the pudding.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10294	The next item is the speech by Mr Brosz. Voluntary speaking time limit: 8 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10316	Madam President. Minister for Education! I am not really happy about how the debate on school reform has been going on lately, because I believe that we are having a discussion that is only partly at the heart of the problems, and I would like us to talk about what should be the focus of the debate in PISA. The grandiose school reform dialogue, which Mr Amon has spoken about, is already remarkable. I don't know, was this dialogue that was first said to be limited to three hours? In the early morning, the Chancellor of the Federal Republic then insisted that this might look stupid. There are then 70 people sitting there who did not know at the beginning how long it will take. It has prepared Federal Chancellor Schüssel's pleasure to day four hours longer. It might have been fair to know beforehand how this will happen. I think that was the dialogue where 70 people were allowed to talk for 3 minutes each without any argument from anyone else. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Hakl: You could have done this at any time!]] Yes, we could have done that, I know, but that was when, when one spoke at 10 a.m., one came in at 3.30 p.m.. This was really a dialogue within the meaning of the Federal Government. Klubobmann Van der Bellen has already spoken in advance of an educational monologue that will take place there – just as it happened then. There have been only a few highlights, and I am therefore also fascinated by the request you have made. In fact, it reads as follows: Implementation of the results of the reform dialogue. I was puzzled at what results of the reform dialogue after these seven-hour speeches. Translated and written in are exactly the points that were interesting to you. All the other things have fallen under the table anyway. I think there have been few highlights, but one had a signal character: It was the Dutch Minister of Education who – an interesting form – gave us the lecture, a four-page presentation, from the leaf, an introduction to the Dutch school reform. Quality assurance was the topic, she talked about other things. In any case, she has said that it is very important that the results of the quality checks be made public immediately, that it is transparent that you can see from every school how the result looks. After that, the Finnish expert came to the speaker's desk and said that there was a problem now because they thought it was one of the central errors, namely to make educational comparisons between schools transparent. This did not lead to an increase in quality, but to the strengthening of the selection and the failure to achieve an equivalent education system. You didn't talk about that. The application says only what you want to do. This shows that the answers are often not as black-and-white as you represent it. – So this reform dialogue was a little weaker. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] As regards school fees, Mrs Brinek, so that you don't always have to talk in between, I quote you yourself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek]] ==References== In March 2000, seven months before the introduction of the study fees in an OTS, Austria does not threaten to pay any tuition fees. This panic has nothing to do with political argumentation. The access to education from the primary school to the academic degree will continue to be borne by society. - Quote. [[Call the Greens and the SPÖ:Hear, hear! Oho!]] Seven months before the introduction of tuition fees! Three months before, it was Minister of Education Gehrer in the ‘profile’: No, I don't want any tuition fees. There will be no tuition fees during this period. - Quote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Brinek.]] You may now be able to admit that you are becoming a bit bright and looking at how the discussion about school money is going on. I could now bring you seven more quotes, which are wonderfully summarized by the APA, as it happened in advance. What bothers me a little bit about the discussion, how it is now being led by the SPÖ, is the following: We have a provision according to which we currently do not seem to have any school money. I claim, however, that there is school money now. There is a regulation of the Ministry of Education which states: For all day schools 70 € per month are to be paid plus the cost of the food, because it is not included in it. That's the other variant that's swinging along. [[Call the SPÖ:Constitutional!]] One can discuss whether this would be unconstitutional, because it is argued that it is care contributions and not school fees. I'm just asking how is this in a restricted all day school? Where, then, is the separation between the part of care and the part in which schooling takes place? They don't really exist. I would like to discuss these things intensively once. You're always saying that's what you're looking after. I say: If you choose this school, you no longer have the choice of whether you want to take care of it or not. When I log in to my child in such a school, I pay 70 € school money, nothing but school money. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Let's do it!]] And what's more, It's a regulation. If You will come to the idea tomorrow to order 150 €, then we will pay 150 € per child school money for all day schools. This is the problem that we have at the moment and that we are standing before. On religious education: another example, because I am actually concerned with the question of the Constitution. Hourly reduction – in the current situation, religious instruction is fixed with the weekly hours, with nothing changeable. This was, by the way, a not unspectacular criticism that existed in schools, because all the other hours could be shortened. One can discuss this, and we were opposed to shortening hours in the form as was the case. Religious teaching, however, was sacrosanct and was not allowed to talk about it. What situation do we get when we continue to write it? The Minister of Education may, by regulation, reduce the hours of schooling from one day to another, as she wishes. She has done this and is theoretically not limited. At the same time, a two - thirds majority was needed for every change in religious teaching. Is that the meaning of the thing? Do we want to position the school laws like that? I mean, that's not the point, because you already have to talk about what's happening in the overall context, and also about the current problems with religious teaching. By the way, we are for a relatively pragmatic reason for religious instruction. We believe that the Austrian system has worked very well. When you take out the teaching of religion from school completely, you promote fundamentalist tendencies – for where do the children then go into religious teaching? So we do not need to have an ideological discussion about this, because that is not the point. It is only about the specification that is to happen, and about the problems in practice. Go to the countryside and see how you can unsubscribe your child from religious teaching in the public school – apart from church and state. What's going on with the kid? Where's the care? They don't exist there in folk school. What social pressure still arises? You should talk about it, too, when you speak of religious freedom. This will probably include the fact that on the other hand the right is meant to say: Our family situation is such that we do not want conventional religious instruction in school. What we don't have at all is a discussion on the question: Should there possibly be religious education in school in a different form? I think it is very important to hear about world religions in school. In what form? Confessional? That the priest comes to school, the Catholic priest in general, and then explains to the children how the various world religions are built? [[Abg. Murauer: That doesn't have to be a priest!]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: This is part of political education!]] That is the current situation. There may be more. Again: The offer of religious religious teaching in school is not the issue for us, but now to act as if it were the only solution to be laid down in the Constitution, I do not think it is urgent in view of the current situation. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] I quote once again my clubman, who said yesterday, the PISA study has probably shown that we have read weaknesses and not primarily weaknesses in religious teaching. I think that is what we should agree on in the debate. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I come back to the request made by the government groups. We did not agree to the proposal in the Committee either, because although many things are not particularly spectacular, one might also agree with it in part, but many things are not included in your proposal. If you evaluate the results of PISA, but I do not think with any single word that at the end of compulsory schooling, 20 percent up to a quarter of the students have extreme reading weaknesses, thus extreme difficulties in having a career in the future, another educational opportunity, I mean that your application simply lacks something. There are many things that are relevant, not inside. There is no word about the inability of private assistance in Austria. There is no word inside how individual support can be designed in such a way that this private after-aid is not necessary. We would see the focus here, namely that a support system is finally being developed. I have not mentioned the word “Finland” today, but because it is so beautiful, I still do it at the end, at least in this one area. We were together in Finland. A few figures on this: 20 percent of Finnish students are in funding models in primary school, in the first nine years of schooling, where funding model in Finland usually means small groups or individual funding, where teachers for pupils who have weaknesses, out of the group, make their own funding out of the class and are successful with this system. You can reduce the proportion of students from a total of 30 percent who receive these funding in the first two years of school to about 7 percent. This is a completely different system than what we have. We are concerned about knowing as quickly as possible who is good, who is less good to be able to divide – and the children and parents are often left alone with it. These are the important things that we should talk about, and we are missing, both budgetaryly and in terms of content, any measures you might have taken.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10450	The next speaker was Mrs Rossmann. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10471	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I see today's debate very positively, because I cannot remember that, since I was here in the House, there would ever have been such a comprehensive resolution on a school reform. I think we agree. Mr Brosz also pointed out that much is included in this request. In some cases, however, there are also headings, declarations of intent, which still need to be filled with detailed work, with reform work. I would like to stress that, from a liberal point of view, this motion for a resolution alone would be too little with these headings. The reform dialogue contains a lot, and the Commission for the Future has also put forward very, very many proposals that can be put in place here. We liberals want this school discussion to be held with a view to abolishing – of course – the two-thirds majority. If, today, Mr Gusenbauer says that the Social Democrats have always been in favour of abolishing the two-thirds majority, then I must already remind you that his education spokesperson Erwin Niederwiesser himself said that, on the basis of this two-thirds majority in the school system, there has been almost a mutual blockade of the major parties in this House for 30 years. I am pleased that the abolition of the two-thirds majority, as it now looks, is undisputed, however, fears that the SPÖ will be acting there again to find a base for jumping. If Mr Gusenbauer notes here today that religious teaching and many other points are still to be recorded, this reminds me of the discussion we have held in the Convention. There is an all-encompassing school paragraph in the Convention's draft, which must be implemented here, which must be implemented with the Convention, but which cannot now simply be junctified with the abolition of the two-thirds majority, because then this whole discussion is not honest and then once again a drop base is sought, because one can then say: Our ideas are not fulfilled. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] I think that is the absolutely wrong way, because if we do not manage to abolish the two-thirds majority in general, then we do not need to talk about school reforms at all. In my opinion, the will for reform should really be reflected in this House. The population wants it, the population, especially the young people in this country want us to respond actively to these PISA results. Mr Brosz, if you said that it was nothing in our motion for a resolution with regard to the teaching of support, then I must resist this: This area has been dealt with in a comprehensive way under the heading “Promoting the weak and demanding the strong”. [[Abg. Brosz: What has been changed?]] We can certainly talk about whether it would not be possible for teachers to be taught in the summer, even in the summer, that two or three weeks before school, in the free time, which is not automatically holiday time for teachers – I have heard nothing about it from you – to give this funding instruction. Is funding training possible in the afternoon – also in a further agreement with teachers? We're still going to discuss the LDG today. The next step could be taken, this famous pot C, where we define the afternoon hours more precisely. These are our liberal demands. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Blue-orange!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Matznetter) Very “spiritive”!]] I know the teachers' union is not open to this, but that would be solutions! As you are always talking about equal opportunities, I would like to stress that these are solutions to equal opportunities, which are cost-neutral for parents and for students when two, three afternoons of funding are given to schools. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But I know you don't want to hear that. These are the problems that will be dealt with in the future. And I say this from our position: It cannot be that the entire school policy is purely a teacher's union policy. It cannot be that the teacher union policy is. We have the task of representing pupils and parents here in the House, of course, but not primarily teachers' union policy. We liberals will really stand up for this school discussion to remain in the lot. Finally, I would like to say that there is also the commitment to differentiated teaching in this request. We liberals also say that it must be possible to have a differentiated teaching, a common school of the 6- to 15-year-olds with very strong internal differentiation. This is the famous Carinthian model that will emerge in the school experiment – and that could be a future model. Many future models have come from Carinthia. I'm thinking about the kid's allowance, the whole care area. Thus, Carinthia could be a pioneer country once again in school. [[Abg. Dr. Rada: How about stadium construction!]] And I'm sure we'll succeed. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Finally, I would like to make an appeal to colleagues from Gusenbauer: I hope your announcements will come true and the two-thirds majority can be abolished without restrictions in order to be able to make real reforms.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10573	Before I give Mrs. Gehrer the floor, I announce that the request for the reply to the question was withdrawn 2344/AB. Mrs Bundesminister, I give you the floor. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10600	Mr President. High house! I would like to make three corrections at the beginning. First: I have not blamed anyone on the results of the PISA test, but we have said: We need to learn from it. However, we must also ask ourselves whether the basis of the survey was the same as in 2000, and I will now question it, because I believe that our schools do not deserve it to be made bad with such claims if a change in the basis of the survey has taken place. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: You can read this in the report!]] Second: Finally, I would like to make it clear – and please take this seriously – that in a restricted all day school the children do not have school and lessons all day long. They have their 19, their 21 or their 32 lessons as well as all other children, and the remaining hours are lessons, lessons and leisure lessons. A care allowance will be charged for this purpose. [[Abg. Brosz: That's why there is funding lessons in the morning?]] And I would ask you to take note of the fact that there will also be an allowance in Finland for the care in the afternoon and that participation in the care is also voluntary in Finland. [[Abg. Sburny: That means you pay the promotion!]] Ladies and gentlemen! When I hear the statements of the SPÖ opposition about the schools, I very much hope that those who talk there do not even believe all that they say, because that would be a cryout injustice to the teachers, to the schools, to all the school partners who work hard and work positively to give our children the best education. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] I beg you Furthermore, you should finally include in your considerations evaluations that are positive. If you are looking at the EU benchmarks, if you really want to know something about the education standard in Austria, and not just give your pre-formed standings, you can read in the EU benchmark: The EU target by 2010 is that a maximum of 10 percent of young people will no longer be secondary after compulsory school. – In Austria it is already 9.5 percent, and we are working on the fact that these young people also receive further education. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] And that is how it continues at the end of the second level. Austria has already graduated from secondary level 2, which is above the target set by the EU by 2010. So we have a school system that offers many young people a lot of opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen! Those who go through our school landscape with open eyes see what has happened to reform movements over the past ten years, what has been done, what has been done, what has been implemented by teacher initiatives. I would like to show you some things, and I would also like to mention them here. There are already special measures to promote reading, which you may have missed. I don't need a law to do that either. Some don't understand that. For those measures that have now been listed, we need laws, I do not need laws for a special reading promotion. Hundreds of teachers have done reading training with thousands of students over the past five years. Reading screenings are carried out at the schools in April and May. Special support measures in the field of reading have been implemented in all areas. Professor Krainer of the University of Klagenfurt has developed a new methodology and didactics for scientific education, and in hundreds of teacher events at pilot schools this new methodology will be implemented. The managers in the school sector receive a new training at the so-called Leadership Academy. - I don't need a law to do that, it's already done. The second group now starts again with 300 participants. In terms of modern technology equipment, Austria is at the forefront of Europe. The computer, the laptop are of course means of teaching. For the benefit of the students, the early warning system was established, the promotion measures for the talented and for the weaker were strengthened, foreign language offers and bilingual education were expanded. The daily care places were also increased from 45 000 to 55 000, and the countries were given more money for support teachers, a new right of service for state teachers was created, and the service-related salary for class boards was introduced. There are new training courses in vocational and teaching schools. There is quality assurance and evaluation at schools through the project “QIS – Quality in Schools”; everyone can see this on the Ministry’s homepage. The professional maturity test is offered to a large extent. This is a unique offer that is not otherwise available throughout Europe. The repetition of compulsory schooling has been made possible for many hundreds of young people. I understand that the opposition naturally does not want to see these developments, such progress. But I tell you, you are doing bitter injustice to teachers and good schools in Austria, because these are doing excellent work, and it is time to say thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Brosz: Ask the schools if they are grateful!]] Now to the request to abolish the two-thirds majority in favour. This is similar to what we discussed at the time when we discussed whether we could make a service agreement at schools. First you said yes, then you said no. It's the same way: First, it calls for the elimination of the two-thirds majority, then foolish junkims are built. I will now tell you why you, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, are building these junkims. This is very simple: You want to prevent a new constitution, because you will say that unless you need it, we already have the Constitutional provisions for the school sector. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: So much ridiculousness doesn't even need an answer!]] I say to you that you are too late, because all these areas are from the Austrian People's Party, the government has already entered the Constitutional Convention, namely in Working Group IV on Fundamental Rights, which is also about freedom of education. In the same way, Mrs Oberin Gleixner, who is the representative of the Ecumenical Council and who also represents the Cardinal, brought in all the areas of concordation. Similarly, the Austrian People's Party has introduced a constitutional article in which the good, true and beautiful, the important objectives of the school, are all important provisions. – But you just want to say now that we are making the few constitutional provisions, then it is no longer necessary to make a slimmer, better, new constitution. Voices Finally, you are asking for the proposal for a slim, new, better constitution, then we have all these things, which are so important to you, in the constitutional order and you do not have to put up junkims for the two-thirds majority! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] The Austrian Federal Government is going a very clear way: We want to remove obstacles to school development! – We will therefore make the request to abolish the two-thirds majority for the many school laws – school organisation law, school compulsory law et cetera et cetera. Then movement is possible, then the windows are open, then fresh air comes in. On the other hand, we want to establish, in a new, modern constitution, the important key points for schooling, for education. And before that, you want to press! Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, if you really want to have something going on at school that is a little further, then we have to accept our request for the abolition of the two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10732	The next speaker was Mr Dr Niederwieser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10753	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The previous debates by the ÖVP representative Minister Gehrer and Mr Amon have been awarded or presented for me by cynicism, superiority and polemics. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You don't need to distribute censorships!]] I was already used to it by Mr Amon, but if the Minister now falls into this polemic tone and says: If you do not understand, it is not to help you!, then I have to say, Mrs Federal Minister, that you want to achieve a consensus in this tone, but on matters that have been discussed for a long time in the Constitutional Convention, that is probably a measure! [[Abg. Grandruck: How does your tone look? Look at the urgent request!]] Perhaps you can deal with the liberals in this way, certainly not with us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] On the reform dialogue, colleague Amon – Mr Brosz has already described how this happened –: In any case, I note that Klubobmann Cap, colleague Broukal, colleague Kuntzl and I, who were all there, are too few for you. Obviously we are not partners enough as parliamentarians, you want to have it different. Or do I see that wrong now? Have we perhaps been able to reach you, our words have made a contribution to this? Then don't make yourself here and don't pretend we weren't there. We don't have to let that happen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] You, Mr Amon, have made such a call to the Federal Minister at all. You have drawn a final balance, which has happened under the Gehrer era and with the Gehrer School. The Federal Minister himself has said that there are a lot of data that are also good. Mrs. Federal Minister, you put something to us here: We do not criticize the work of teachers, we do not criticize the parents, we criticize your policy! That's why it's here. Her education policy is on the test, not the teachers! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Even if you try to turn this arrow off, he will meet you, despite everything, you can't prevent that. They are responsible for this school policy. [[Abg. Grandruck: Thank God!]] And the 20 percent of 15-year-olds – the last time it was 15 percent – who are called risk students and of whom the PISA study says they are not sufficiently prepared, neither for life nor for a profession, which is not easy to wipe away and say: It's all right anyway, we have benchmarks that say how good we are! These are the challenges that we must face, and we would like to face these challenges together in this House and not with... – Yes? [[Abg. Amon: They prevent everything!]] Then you call me the laws – except for the one that is always quoted – that have actually been prevented here. What about this reform? – End of November: PISA study; two months of shock, debt allocation, a reform dialogue in mid-February, and ten points have been presented in this reform dialogue. It should also be noted, Mrs Federal Minister, that: They are talking about a dialogue that should have taken place there, but the press paper and the summary were already finished before we started. You have already known before what we will say and what the result of this educational summit will be. That's how your dialogue looks! This dialogue is respectful of the outcome of this reform dialogue, and Mr Amon and Mr Bleckmann have tabled a motion for a resolution to Parliament – with the request that this be implemented on a fair basis. The Federal Government is requested to submit laws to this effect, where appropriate. We should discuss this today, but what am I reading yesterday, Mrs Federal Minister, what are your points that you want to address next of these ten points? – That’s where I read: 5-day week – okay – the offer of full-day care should be extended – but nothing of a parent’s right – then the new name of the special school in funding school, additional designations for schools, the subject of physical education means sport in the future – no longer movement and sport, because that would have been our proposal, but you do not have the size to agree to it – and the introduction of quality assurance in the professional test. Mr Amon! Mr Bleckmann! Where, then, have these points disappeared, which have been strongly promoted in the Committee on Education? Even of the few that have stood in there, there has not been much left. And I'm wondering, Should that really have been the whole result of this reform dialogue? Where is the final report of the Commission on the Future, which is constantly being spoken of? Where is the “School 2010” project, which has been repeatedly spoken of? It is not a genuine will to reform, and I think it is necessary to have a corresponding pressure here. Now to school money and to this two-thirds matter: The credibility of the government is really at stake here. You said at the tuition fees, there's nothing going on, you say it back at school. But you say it only for the compulsory school sector – and I would like to expressly say this here –, you do not say it for the sub-level of the AHS, not for the various special forms of the vocational schools, not for the vocational schools. All this remains open for school money. That's where you want us to agree? We can't agree with that! That is why we are bringing in the following motion for a resolution by Mr Gusenbauer, Mr Niederwieser and Mr Wittmann, and we are really asking you to consider whether this could not be a consensus formula. [[Quoted print version removed]] You would therefore take many fears expressed in the review procedure. I think it would be a basis from which we could actually take a decisive step forward. Please decide to give our request our consent!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10886	The request by Mr Gusenbauer, Dr Niederwieser, Dr Wittmann, colleagues, which has just been read, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. Mrs Brinek is speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e10913	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mr. Niederweiser, I think that you have understood “reform dialogue” as something dynamic, and it is not with the 14th century. ==References== That is why I would like to invite you to agree to the proposed measures and to maintain further dialogue. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Bleckmann.]] This is an offer that I do not make for the first time on behalf of my group today, but only renew. It underlines what my previous speakers said by the Federal Minister. So vote First of all, you agree with the motion for a resolution and you will also see that the Federal Government is being asked to maintain its opposition to the introduction of school money. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Do you agree first, and that is dialogue?]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ and the Greens]] Voices If you agree with our draft convention, then we have achieved the obviously common goal! Then we can continue the reform dialogue and further measures, because – I can join immediately – PISA and its results are only a snapshot. I would like to talk about the evaluation of the World Competitiveness Report, for example, and the good cut-off of Austria, as well as the detailed evaluation of what is good in the Austrian school system. This brings me back to the basis for today's resolution, to the PISA study, which itself says what cannot be concluded, namely that it is the first result: radical change in the school organisation. Who was in the reform dialogue – I was there too, dear colleague Niederwieser, dear Erwin – has also heard that the experts, especially the expert of the Max Planck Institute, have said: A differentiated school system is not automatically socially selective, it is only selective if it does not take into account certain conditions and consequences which are not discussed in Austria. That is, there is a teaching of funding, there is the possibility of further individualisation through a certain improvement of didactics, via internal school reform. I know that internal school reform is more difficult to achieve, means a high motivation of teachers and means less sleek political sale, which is associated with it. I am very committed to this, and there are good materials and literature on how this internal school reform can succeed. Look at Finland! How did she manage? – At the beginning of each school year there is a very hard one – I would say – merciless test that determines at which level of performance the students are. And then, as it were, a development, a funding menu for students, is being developed for school groups. On the other hand, this also means that if you study in total the results that Finland may have the worst values in the sense of well-being in school – which is now a presumption of experts – on the basis of this strong individualization. That is, the community experience, the class, the group experience, the withdrawal in a social group must not suffer because of strong individualizations. We also need to learn from Finland or from the well-cuting countries. Neither would you, I think, say so without a doubt that Korea and Japan have such a beautifully recognizable, coppable school system, although those in problem solving and in natural sciences are similar to Finland. Let us therefore beware of copies, but also of simple answers where differentiated solutions can be developed! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neugebauer: A beneficial contribution!]] Let us look, as I am a Viennan, for example, at Vienna, in those areas of school, in the regional zones where so-called risk groups with the system seem to have their difficulties. Your proposal, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, for the general school, for example, would not solve at all what is to be done in the field of 15 to 16-year-olds. There the risk groups sit as to reading. In Vienna, almost 40 percent and more of the Taferl classics do not have German. Many of the students do not yet have the language of transport and teaching in the primary school, as teachers say, and use the school as a heat station and not as a learning facility. There is a need for action, since I do not need any further measures beyond the current measures to be able to act. Regional evaluation is necessary. From every study... – That is hopefully done. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Why isn't there?]] We must address your question to Dr. Haider from the Education Research Centre in Salzburg. For example, the regional evaluation and the development of measures in Vienna are highly necessary, so that, as the study says, vocational students in Vienna, which are 50 percent of the risk groups, are not hindered by migration backgrounds and apparently missing integration measures in the participation of social and professional life opportunities. There's a stop. So the invitation to the reform dialogue continues to apply, which goes over 14. February out. Today, there are measures for decision-making, which concern essential, including your essential objectives. You know the excuse and the proposal from the Convention, you know where to start, and you also know that one-time measures or one-time articulations do not immediately improve the system for all futures. The invitation to dialogue shall apply. Take part in this, accept this invitation and stop with debt allocations!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11007	The next speaker was Mrs Mandak.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11028	Mr President. High house! Mr Brinek, thank you for your partial, more differentiated presentation! Now you have already mentioned a few points, for example, the problem of students who come from migrant families and do not have the same opportunities at the moment. There are massive residues in the German language, and very serious difficulties among the students who cannot read meaningfully. That's where it's supposed to be. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Yes!]] I am already very happy when someone says of you, okay, that's all there is, because the woman minister always pretends that there is no such thing and therefore nothing to do has to be done, there is no need for action. Today, she has told us something where Austria lies with the goals above the education degree and everything is great anyway. [[Abg. Großruck: Wrong!]] So, please, let us not continue in a discussion when it comes to improving the standard of education in Austria. We'll be there forever. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Mrs. Minister, you said that in Finland we have to pay for the afternoon care. - That's right. However, it must be said that the entire teaching of funding, the individual teaching that takes place there in the afternoon, is of course free of charge because it is part of the class, and that in Finland the cost of lunch is also free. So you have to say these points of fairness half the time when you just put that, as you do, into the room. The PISA Congress in Finland was very interesting. Mr Amon was still with us, unfortunately no one was present by the ministry. I have found it very unfortunate that, according to the results here, one does not believe that there would be a need for a presence there. There is this link to your request. You want to implement the results of the reform dialogue, but you are extremely disbelievable because you simply confirm it on a continuous basis – also with the points in it –: What's being done is all right anyway and you don't have to do anything else. For example, the central question of the common school is missing in this request, which you simply care about. This should not be a matter for you, although it is quite clear that this common school of the 15-year-olds of course opens up opportunities. You know, we know, unfortunately, for some ideological reasons it's not possible. But I tell you one thing, if we really want to improve something in the education system in Austria, we will not get around this discussion. The figures speak for it, the results speak for it, and we cannot keep our hands on it in the long run and say that we do not want it, and that is why we do not. If you are concerned about the learning and the learning success of the students, you must at least take this issue seriously. Unfortunately, they do not do it to this day. What is still on your side in this request is the five-day week. – Yes, that’s all right, but please look at the conditions under which a five-day week can take place! Not under the framework conditions you currently offer. In order to be able to offer a five-day week, you need to see exactly what happens to the children, who have learning weaknesses, what happens to the children from families of migrants. These have funding lessons, these have mother tongue lessons, some of them also have religious instruction to do so; and there is a need to make sure that lessons are offered over longer routes with midday care, with leisure time in between. You can't put everything in one block because that's what you're talking about. In other words, there is a shot in the back and the children are again disadvantaged, but not encouraged. The point of day care. – Yes, but please as a claim to day care and not as something the parents do not know exactly whether they are offered each year and, if so, to what extent and how exactly. I do not wonder that not all quotas have been exhausted because parents need to find their own solutions in the meantime. I need to know as a mother, as a father, my child can probably have a full day care in the next school year. Only then can you say calmly, well, I can be active, because my child is well uplifted. But don't give the parents this chance! It's an egg dance every time, whether there's going to be the offer or not: And that's not a perspective for us. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] You have the area of language promotion in your points. What do you think you're doing? – Language test one year before admission. Please, go to the kindergartens and ask the kindergartens once! They know exactly which children need language promotion, they know exactly, but they cannot give them language support because no one is there for it. It is not the question of not knowing where need is given. But the resources are not there, the kindergartens are not there, the teachers are not there who do exactly that. What are you doing in mother tongue class? – You have reduced the number of mother tongue teachers! They give them very bad working conditions. These are teachers who have annual contracts that do not have proper payment. This is also a signal of the importance you give to these teachers. If you say in the reading area, the “Readfit” action is our answer to a quarter of the students who do not read meaningfully, then I mean, that’s a matte thing. There you have to offer more than one program. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: 12 million € in addition!]] I have nothing against the reading programme, but this is really about the question of continuing and continuing training of teachers. We really need to take a deep approach and take far-reaching measures and think about it together. I've never heard from you so far that you want to do this. This is urgently necessary. On the issue of teacher training. Yes, but please, in our interest, pay particular attention to a uniform training, so that a change can be made if, we hope, it will not take too long for this common school to be there. Look at Finland, look at the share of educational training for teachers there! This is at least being given to us at the universities at the moment. There, of course, the educational academies are further ahead, because they offer a much higher share of educational education than they do at the universities. That means that I too lack very clear goals on your part, as you would like to do. They always take quick action, but the depth is unfortunately completely missing. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is why we are not going to accept this request. We did not agree with him in committee either, because we believe that these are simply random items. We are always open to dialogue and are still doing so today, unfortunately there is no longer him. These are only individual events with a large medial brimborium, and afterwards all of this is simmering. That's really bad. As far as freedom of education is concerned, this point appears in the back of the application. We would have a partial amount of your application, which relates specifically to freedom of education. Please agree! We have a request for this. He has been rejected in the committee, I do not know why. We would be pleased if you agreed now. We also submitted a request to the Committee for special educational support in the afternoons. It is true that there is currently no provision for special educational support for children. We believe that this is urgently necessary in the sense of good quality afternoon care. There are also advances and, as far as I know, unanimous decisions. We make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] As far as I have heard from the FPÖ today, you fully support this. We would be very pleased if you would also support it here in plenary, then we would have the majority for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11150	The motion for a resolution, which has just been read, by Mr Brosz, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. As the next speaker, Mrs Bleckmann is speaking. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11175	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Niederwieser.]] – You can also change the list of speakers if you have missed it, Mr Niederweiser. Mr Mandak, no one here says there is no need for action. This is precisely why, today and here too, this request is because in the field of education, something has to be done in our school system. We all agree on this. You should also try not only to see the shortcomings but also to show not only a list of shortcomings, but also the positive things. And not only the things are an improvement that fits you into your program, but also the things are improvements that other people and other parties consider to be correct. Even if they do not comply with your green-red ideas, it may still be improvements. I think you should perhaps try to see that. [[Abg. Broukal: Thank you for this instruction!]] – Thank you, Mr Broukal! Try! We will see whether these efforts will also bear fruit and whether you will say that something good has also happened in this government – instead of just messing. [[Abg. Neudeck: Nothing comes out of the broukal, even if he is trying!]] I listened to my colleague Mandak, who said: Well, it's a lot of stuff, the five-day week, the afternoon care, the early promotion, it's okay, it's a bit matt, but it's okay, but there and there more need to be done. Yes, of course it would be nice if you could do more. Only: Let us not forget that there has been a standstill for decades, because there has clearly been a blockade policy in this area. And that is why it is also good and important... – There has been no blockade policy on this, Mr President, but on the part of your party and your group, because the SPÖ has always prevented the two-thirds majority from being removed in this area. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Rada.]] [[Abg. Riepl: You can't block anything!]] And that's why we think it's so good that you're finally ready to see that it's necessary to lift the two-thirds majority in order to get a new, necessary dynamic and flexibility into the field of education. But what do you really want? – Her chairman, Gusenbauer, said on 12 February. February in the “Mitagsjournal”: No one who has political responsibility in Austria can hide behind the two-thirds majority. – He said that it was necessary to drop the two-thirds majority in this area. ==References== February – only four days later – he then said: The SPÖ wants to write two provisions in the Constitution: The school system should remain public and free of charge to public schools. So that means you want to make it up to each other. And that is exactly what this debate is about, if you say, on the one hand, that it should fall, but we want it to be connected with it. You can't! [[Abg. Broukal: Do you want to introduce school fees?]] Because if you say you want to drop the two-thirds majority, then drop it without If and But, but don't say, we link it to another point! In the request, Mr Broukal, I hope that you have at least read it through, we have made a clear commitment to the freedom of debt. Yeah, that's clearly inside. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: No, clearly not!]] So vote If you would like to have this point, please put this request to the vote. It is not only in the application text, but also in the application itself that the opposition to the introduction of school money should be maintained. Yeah, please, that's a clear commitment to school money. To this end, you can accept this request if you want to. If you don't want it and just want to make a political struggle out of it again, then you don't agree. [[Abg. Broukal: Is the application then in the Constitution? Did I miss that? But that is not in the Constitution, this request! We can sue him in the Salzamt if we want!]] – Exactly, we want to drop it, that all these things have to be in the Constitution. That's exactly what it's all about, we're going to drop the two-thirds majority. And if we write that into the Constitution again, a two-thirds majority is necessary again. [[Abg. Broukal: Freedom you would like to introduce school money!]] I think you have missed the fact that the two-thirds majority is connected to it. And that's why she's supposed to fall. I thought that was your opinion, too. On the other hand, you must not ask for it on the other hand, Mr President, on the freedom of schooling. You must not confuse apples with pears here, but you must always go the same, clear and straight direction. No one else can follow you. That is to say, the two-thirds majority will fall, and then you cannot write it into the Constitution, but you will have to support it, because there is quite clearly in there that we want to have freedom of education. In the same way, we are also aware that this proposal can only be a first step, where the implementations must first be carried out and then further steps must be taken. This is just a start of a dynamic that is also necessary and necessary in our education system, as well as early language detection and language promotion, which we also consider very important so that we can guarantee a smooth course in school. On the one hand, this should be voluntary, but if language defects are recognized – and this is also contained in the application – there must be mandatory language support so that German can really be the language of teaching in our school system. I think that is also an important point. We will see whether you will also agree to this point. If you really want to implement what you are talking about here and today, then you must accept our request. Do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11303	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11324	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we do not have to agree to the request, that is a good thing. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's the logic!]] There are also good reasons for this. The Federal Minister said earlier in her speech: We have a school system that gives many young people and many young people a lot of opportunities. That's what you're proud of, Mrs. Federal Minister. I think that is precisely because the problem we should talk about and talk about is the reason why we should act. We do not want to give many young people many opportunities, but we want to give all young people and all children the best opportunities in this country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And we're far away. The PISA study once again impressively led us to see that the children's origins are still a big mortgage, which they drag with their lives. A study by the Family Research Institute also clearly demonstrates this for the Austrian education system. It says that each branch decision reinforces this social selection. We must stop this, Mrs Federal Minister, Mr Amon, also withhold reforms, and whether it is, Mr Amon, perhaps up to the overall reform of the Austrian school system, when we conclude that it is necessary. At any rate – and therefore on the question of school money: yes or no – we should reject decisions that lead to a strengthening of exactly this wrong development in the school system, which is diagnosed everywhere. I have observed this discussion very closely: In contrast to the discussion in the Committee, no speaker/no speaker of the ÖVP has taken a distance on the subject of school money! No one of you has so far commented on this: not the Federal Minister, nor the colleagues who have spoken before. That's very interesting. Ladies and gentlemen! As far as school fees are concerned, of course we are children burned on the question of tuition fees at universities. And if not even more half-hearted dementis come from you here in Parliament, how should we appreciate your failure to raise a question that you have always claimed is not at all an issue? So: Please, clear decisions, please agree to our request! Then this thing would once and for all be put out of dispute. They would save themselves a Déjà-vu, because I already think some education politicians do not want it. But in the other case, unfortunately, the party line changes from today to tomorrow, and then you are the best argumenters and argumenters for school fees. I've got this in my ears. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] As far as your request is concerned, I must say: There is a half-hearted formulation in there – Mr Niederwieser has already said it – and it goes exactly in the direction we have heard that it is being discussed in the ÖVP, namely to introduce school tuition for compulsory education, and this is also a primary school, and even the AHS sub-school should be subject to school fees. Please agree to our request! Saving You and us the Déjà-vu and especially the children and young people another obstacle in the Austrian education system!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11377	The next item is the report by Mr Grossruck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11398	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Kuntzl, so that you can hear it clearly, as you said before, no one from the ÖVP has said that school money should not be introduced: None of us want to introduce school money! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You said that about the study fees too!]] It's authentic. Now you've heard from me. I hope you won't come out here again and tell the same nonsense again, that the ÖVP wants to introduce school money. Mr. Niederwieser, you have earlier muttered about the tone of Mrs. Federal Minister and you mean you are surprised at how aggressive he is. I didn't think he was aggressive, but I think he was very objective, because it means a saying to us in Upper Austria: On a rough glotz belongs a rough throat! And the answer given by the Minister was correct, for the following reason: We come at 3 p.m. to deal with the urgent question, and we have to say that this answer has its right in view of what is in the emergency – one has to let it go – and in view of the tone that the SPÖ is making, as for example – I quote –: “PISA crash – gutter puts the head in the sand. Soon after five months after Austria’s catastrophic crash at PISA II, nothing has happened. “ [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] And on top of that: ‘Worry refuses Minister of Education Increase the necessary reforms” and so on. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Continue!]] I quote: “Every survey proves the lack of all-day schools in Austria.” – I hope you will then present every survey that proves this during the discussion on the Dinghy question. That's the tone you're dealing with in discussions, and then you're tender and reckless when you get the corresponding answer to the untruths you're telling, to the uncertainty you're running outside with the citizens, and to the evasion of the school system on your part. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You know that very well! Either You have not heard the PISA study or you do not want to hear it – rather the latter will be the case. You don't want to hear the PISA study. You know very well that the PISA study is differentiated to see that the PISA study is differentiated to discuss, and you also know from the experts that this is a snapshot that is not so tragic. Austria has fallen by three percentage points compared to the last PISA study. It is quite clear that action must be taken, but that is why we will not change the whole school system. You will not bring that together with us, and you will not be able to enforce it with us. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Aha!]] Your argumentation seems to me as follows – you may need to speak with parables in order for you to know what is meant –: In the case of a motor vehicle, the ignition candle is broken, it doesn't work completely, and you go here and say that the whole car needs to be exchanged. We say: We turn the spark plug out, and then it works again! – That’s exactly where we will start with our reforms! [[Prolonged calls of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We will not allow you to introduce your entire ideological hundred-hundred education measures through the back door of the PISA study. There will be no total school! There won't be a whole day school! – very well on a voluntary basis. We want the differentiation! We want the peda-gogic flower meadow and not your pedagogical lawn mower cut that you want to enforce! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Aha-Rufe at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! That's the difference! For that to happen too, Mrs Gehrer is a guarantee. [[Subsequent calls to the SPÖ.]] Education policy is in the best hands of the ÖVP, the coalition, the government, the FPÖ. The population can rely on this, the teachers, the students and the parents can rely on it. We're not making experiments that are ideologically sound. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Now a word to your party president. He makes even the most huge bocks jumps: Once he is for the two-thirds majority, then he is for their abolition. Recently, applications come where again, at least a little bit, two-thirds of the majority is required, but suddenly he is the guardian of the concordate, as we have heard on the weekend. That's a little strange. Ask the socialist youth what she thinks about this ideological banishment that has been carried out there! I have made a six-liner with which I would like to describe this attitude of Mr Gusenbauer a little, and I conclude by saying that: In order to be present in the media, Gusi sees some jokes. There is completely unhappiness with everyone, because it's quite popular, packed: today with the Heavenly Club – and tomorrow with the Beelzebub.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11522	The next item is Mrs Schasching's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11543	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr Grossruck, your multi-liners have already been better off in the past, so somehow I am a little disappointed today. [[Abg. Broukal: Legasthenics promotion has been abolished!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Mr Broukal, we will have to talk about this: The Legasthenics promotion must not come under the hammer! You're right. Ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP! I have to say: Today is already the day of superiority of the ÖVP. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] Get out of here! I can justify that too. A few hours ago, when I was here to talk about health, during the debate – our first speaker was already finished – we got an amendment on the table, and that was anything but a constructive dialogue as it should be in a law. To say that you had to agree to your proposals in advance in order to be able to enter a reform dialogue was at all a strong piece, Mrs Brinek. For me, dialogue is something to move forward, something that we want to lead before, which we also want to carry out enough and do not want to do in three minutes, and that with stand-bys. Dialogue is something that we want to lead to a wide range of topics, and topics are truly enough. The Federal Minister said earlier: Whoever goes through our school landscape with open eyes sees the changes! - Yes, we see them! There are less hours. There are fewer motivated teachers who can do their work as they would like to do because they lack hours because more and more children are sitting in classes. There are other changes: Unfortunately, we have already heard this today, and a recent study shows that – 14 percent girls and 16 percent boys between six and 15 years of age who are already obese. Mrs Bundesminister, I ask you: What do you want? You do against these growing physical damage – except the reduction of the hours for gymnastics and your suggestion that the name “Moving and Sport” should be included in your presentation? That's too little for us! It's just a label. What we want is a content behind this label, namely actual, positive changes. We want these in the sense of our children and young people, and we also want them in a concert of a change from school to a day-to-day run school, where this is possible in healthy portions, alternate with learning programmes and with promotion programmes, and also creativity and sporting activity. Mrs Federal Minister, I hope dialogue is not an empty word for you, and you are finally beginning to think about it, and will soon enter into a dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11592	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lap. Speaking time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11613	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mrs. Minister! The discussion shows that the EIA has resigned on issues of education, because the implementation of the results leads to a request that is full of records. [[Ironic cheerfulness and intermediate calls at the ÖVP]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, this proposal states that the weak should be encouraged and the strong demanded. This is a typical Nona floss! It also says that the teaching of funding should be flexibly divided over the school year and adapted to the needs of children. What is it really like? – Funding lessons have been deleted. Teacher resources have been deleted. There are fewer support and accompanying teachers, fewer language health teachers. It turns out that the woman minister is tired. [[Abg. Grandruck: Hahaha!]] And what she gave of herself as a homage to the teachers today is really a completely different song, namely a song of song. [[New calls to the ÖVP.]] Although the teachers in our country have so few resources, they continue to work hard and are very initiative. It is, for example, like: If children from other countries are in high school classes, it is not the case that there are heating facilities for the students so that they do not have to stop on the street and freeze in winter, but then it is so that they are very likely to learn German and to control the teaching material half way away. Only: The reduction of resources will greatly impede these measures and these efforts by teachers. I would now like to talk about another issue, namely the question of integration. The integration of disabled children takes place in Austria in different ways. In Lower Austria, for example, parents must ask their child for an integrative schoolground. [[Abg. Kainz: That's not true at all!]] Integration into further leading schools was led by the Minister of Education and Technology to the storage track. The language support you mentioned in your application would already be possible by regulation, only: The Minister is asleep, and in this case too, she is tired. Social democracy has concrete offers, and the population is behind these concrete offers of social democracy. We make a successful dialogue with important groups of society.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11681	Ladies and gentlemen! I am now interrupting the debate on points 2 and 3 of the agenda so that the urgent question requested can be dealt with at 3 p.m. in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[15:02:19]] Request for urgent procedure by Dr. Josef Cap, colleagues in the Federal Chancellor on the ‘speed kills’ to ‘nothing goes’ – consequences of the standstill of government work’ (2807/J)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e11711	We are now entering the urgent debate on the written question 2807/J. As this has now been done to all the Members of Parliament, their reading by the scribe is not sufficient. The urgent question has the following wording: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12051	I give Mr Cap as the first questioner to justify the urgent question referred for a preliminary ruling pursuant to § 93 para. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12073	Mr President. High house! If you look at the headlines of today's issue of the newspapers, you can conclude that this urgent request is more than right, especially in view of the background that the Federal Chancellor had to be denied the media for a long time. Not that this was a great loss, but it was at least notable – not only to us but also to the population. The “Salzburger Nachrichten” of today, for example – I quote – says: ‘The FP is nothing more than group therapy financed by taxpayers without success prospects.’ In today’s “Kurier, ” the 23. April could be “a day of fate for the coalition. ” – This is in keeping with the fact that the government’s standstill, reform and political standstill at least until 23. It will last April. I predict, if the FPÖ party is going to continue to exist, it will of course continue because the disputes are prolonged. Today’s “Kronen Zeitung” is entitled: “How long is bowl watching yet?” Surtitled is that with the words: ‘FPÖ chaos is getting worse.’ This makes me come to the real point very slowly. What is the meaning of “How long does the Federal Chancellor continue to watch? ” [[Abg. Neudeck: We can read the newspaper ourselves too!]] The creator of this federal government, the party responsible for this federal government, is the Federal Chancellor. Then: We had exploratory talks at the time: ÖVP with the Greens, ÖVP with SPÖ, and then the Federal Chancellor – what a surprise! – but again for the continuation of the black/blue government coalition. Lopatka could now place: Who, if not him, is primarily responsible for this government crisis? Who, if not he, is responsible for this political standstill and for the stopover of reform in this government? Should the FPÖ party be held on 23. April's going wrong... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] Don't get so nervous! I understand, it's about your seats in this high house. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Five years of disappointment comes from you!]] Should the FPÖ party be held on 23. April goes wrong, then the poster might be called: Who, if not he, is responsible for having to be elected in advance? The main responsibility is the Federal Chancellor, and he cannot press ahead with this responsibility, and therefore he will have to speak and answer here today. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: But that wasn't a frenetic applause!]] Of course, with great interest I have always followed the comments of the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany when he was asked for the coalition after the Council of Ministers – recently these were not so long, the last is said to have been the shortest Council of Ministers ever to take place – after the coalition. That's where he always answers how to play: There's no crisis! We're still working! [[Call the ÖVP: Right!]] And the most important sentence is: FPÖ is a stable coalition partner! – Then, if this sentence falls, there should be theoretical salmones among the present. But he's always being pronounced. I no longer want to deal with the FPÖ, which is the best of itself, I think that it should not be too hindered, but as much media time as possible, so that every Austrian and every Austrian can really make an accurate picture of it. But everything focused on Mr. Mölzer's exclusion from the party. March in the weekly newspaper “Currently” wrote an article on FPÖ – that is not so long ago – and APA writes about it. The following: ‘Molzers draw a merciless picture of the FPÖ in ‘Current’. Subtitle: “Ohmighty small” government partner – failed party without future. [[Abg. Scheibner: The miller is already the lawyer of the colleague Cap!]] Well, I'm saying, Five country organisations of the FPÖ, i.e. the majority of the FPÖ country organisation, are behind this mill. Mr Prinzhorn was also opposed to this exclusion. That is why what he says is not so unrepresentative. I limit myself and bring only one last quote, then I already want to turn to government work. I quote from an article a description of the Blue Governments designated by Clubobmann Molterer as professional. I thought that what the clubman Molterer says must be tested, not because he says it, but in principle. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What interests Parliament, what does the mill say? The mill doesn't even have a seat here in Parliament!]] Mölzer writes – I quote –: “The human representation of the liberal government party in the year 5 of the government participation is described by skeptical observers of the FPÖ, but also by internal critics as quite poor: As such, the head of the party is primarily eligible as a sister. The vice chancellor from the Alemann-Vorarlberg Politbiotope of FPÖ, a classic economic liberal and all too ÖVP-affin. The Minister of Justice in the Socialist Environment is politically socialised and moderately competent.” – We still have to make the effort to check if this is really true. ‘The three Secretary of State’ – by the way present – ‘political-ideological lightweights’. [[Abg. Scheibner: Mölzer is a speaker from my colleague Cap!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mölzer becomes still a SPÖ member!]] So if you leave the door open and the wind blows, they're gone. Therefore, they are usually not shown in the photos at all. In order to ensure that the women's quota is true, only the ministers will be shown. This is also one of the PR tricks that are made there. But as professional, the clubman Molterer calls the blue government giants. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Because it's true!]] Mölzer argues. Mölzer seems to be an important personality. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] After all: Two thirds of the board of directors of FPÖ were for its exclusion, one third against it, one member abstained. It is disputed whether this is invalid or not. So the whole theater continues. But you all want to agree that this would have no effect on government work. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Cap has the mill as a speaker!]] What do you really want to decide in this government? With what basis will the FPÖ governments go into their party bodies if a weakened party president no longer enjoys confidence? How can this work? Let's keep laughing at you, Mr. Klubobmann Molterer, no later than 23rd. April. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What influence, do you think, does the mill have on government work?]] But what is it about? – The Federal Chancellor was so nice and explained to us at an event about “50 years of state agreement” what it is about. This was kindly brought to the “Mitagsjournal” and in the “ZiB” at 1 p.m., I think, too. Then he said that we should “free ourselves” – so free yourselves! – of our “consumer interests”, of our “consistency interests”, of our “mickey mouse problems”, which we naturally celebrate daily in domestic policy with a desire of the special class.” [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: From the “consumer” you have freed yourselves!]] So he would have said this before 11 a.m., then we should have raised a question in the urgent question and asked him to tell us what kind of internal Mickey-Mouse-problems are for him. We are very interested in this. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] His call to the Austrians: Let's have the bad consumption! Get away from prosperity! Down to the Franciscan Order, you can feel comfortable! – This was today the call to describe the skewer policy, the policy of the Austrian gripping into the pockets of the Austrians! One impoverishes the scrapping of pensioners, the shortening of pensions by saying: If you are satisfied with smaller pensions, be satisfied if wages stagnate, if there is not too much employment! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: This is the usual Kasperl Theatre of yours!]] Pull back! Be contemplative and repudiate the interests of consumers and the interests of prosperity! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Now I have to ask him: What does he mean by Mickey Mouse issues? Does he, for example, mean the question of unemployment? – He is the Federal Chancellor of Record Unemployment: We now have over 360 000 unemployed! This government has not come up with much! We have proposed in 2004 that, in the framework of a tax reform, reliefs for small and medium-sized incomes should be created at billions, so that there is a growth shift and an employment shift, so that there is additional jobs, so that there is a GDP growth of about 1 to perhaps 1.5 percent. [[Abg. Friend: That was done!]] But nothing! Our proposals have always been scrambled! On the contrary: Let us look at the behaviour of the Minister of Finance, who is not here today! He was actually the hardliner at the level of the European Union, which did not participate from the outset in the growth initiatives launched by individual EU Member States. Even now, the Federal Chancellor has played the hardliner at EU level with the Minister of Finance on the issue of the Services Directive! Each of us knows that if the Services Directive had come as Mr Bolkestein has provided, the existence and interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and therefore countless jobs would be at risk! – It is now up to the representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in the ÖVP, but the latter are in fact no longer their representatives, which are already better represented by us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But he is still standing down now and then still shows up in the modifications! It would have been most desirable for the Minister of Finance to have left the 3 per cent mesh point upper limit: no flexibility, no state intervention in the infrastructure sector or anywhere else. – The behaviour of both is also logical: They seem to be buying unemployment as a political concept and calculation! That's also logical: They have reduced active labour market promotion in 2004 alone by € 47.2 million. That's also logical: They reduced infrastructure expenditure by € 223 million in 2006. In this respect, there are no considerations about promoting, supporting or even carrying out meaningful investments with State resources. That is why this behaviour at the level of the European Union is naturally logical. Only: This is the way to speak, and in Austria, in the case of Sunday speeches, it is spoken differently. There are grueling speeches about employment, anointing speeches about economy and growth – but real politics really looks different! [[Abg. Großruck: Such a Kasperltheater!]] That is why I can tell you: They encounter the toughest resistance from us and from the opposition side, but now also – as one can survey – from the population. This standstill in the reforms and the political downside is also true, even with the population! Remember... [[Abg. Lens: Don't show us with your finger!]] [[Further call to the ÖVP.]] They should have made an intermediate call in the “domestic report” when it was said that the mood in the population is real. Three-quarters of the population now critique and say: All the events in this sector have an impact on this bank and take part in this sector. – That’s the truth! Many of those who sit there and represent the majority creators for this bank will then, after the next election – which may well take place before the summer – no longer sit in here. You should always take this into account in the previous row if you nod with your head! It can also be your chair, which is sacrificed for this standstill and for this reform policy! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I almost stand out here for your interests – but almost! Or: You were still active when it came to the total privatisation of ÖIAG when almost €400 million were sacrificed on the altar of the ideology of privatisation, Mr. Lopatka! I emphasize: 400 million € on the altar of ideology! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Lopatka: Bank Austria!]] You probably want to make an intermediate call to economic competence! Mr Lopatka, you are Steirer, and you will of course have been following particularly intensively what has happened there. [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: Bank Austria!]] One aspect that touches the Styria is the Semmering Base Tunnel. I don't know when the planning should be done. It's supposed to take a long time. There are prophecies that you will not be able to look into the second tube before 2025! Why do you need a second tube? Who pays that again? What kind of confusion is this in such a traffic-politically important question as the Semmering Base Tunnel?- Oh, my God! [[Abg. Neudeck: Are you still on the topic?]] The construction time will be one third longer, the approval time will start again from the beginning, and the costs will be one third higher, and all that with tax money, one must always say that. That's not any private money, all this is financed by taxpayers. And the population is waiting for this tunnel, but he's not coming, he's not coming, and he's not coming! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Lopatka.]] Because you are making a call again, Secretary General Lopatka, we are now talking about Spielberg. All this is fabric for Your posters, where it stands: Here we have failed: ÖVP! – Counting Come on, we'll help you with the text, I'll tell you! That's where we're going! We'll help you! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There's an entrepreneur who makes Red Bull. – As I know your agility, it would be better for you all to get a box of Red Bull now, so that you can finally look more at it! That's what I'll tell you, so that a little more swing will come into your club feeling. [[Abg. Grill: Androsch!]] Spielberg: It went around €700 million. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Even Minister Bartenstein walked around the area and said: There's funding! There's funding! 10 000 jobs, 2 000 permanent jobs! – There would have been something for the region! What's the result? – Nothing is the result! A pitiful failure! But I have to tell the Federal Chancellor: There he was not alone, and there was Minister Bartenstein not alone, and there also the woman head of state Klasnic was very keenly involved, which has also ensured by a high degree of incompetence that nothing has happened. Another failure! Another failure! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] This failure also has an impact on employment, growth and the economy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] Please don't tell me that you're an economic party! You're just more of a party, but don't tell me! [[Further calls to the ÖVP.]] Why doesn't a Carinthian make an intermediate call now? – I urgently need a Carinthian call! Why doesn't a Carinthian make an intermediate call? [[Abg. Dr. Stumvoll: Puswald!]] I have to say: I am now thinking of the construction of the Klagenfurt stadium. – Actually, this formulation is wrong, because this construction will probably never exist! – If our forefathers had built at this pace, we would still have Roman tents in Vienna today, I can tell you that. [[Congratulations and cheerfulness at SPÖ.]] If this tempo had been built, we would still walk in the Roman camp! Five out of six applicants put in appeal, but no one knows where to go this appeal: Is it the independent administration Senate in Carinthia, is it the Federal Award Office? Who's the builder? – It is only 50 million to 60 million €: Is it really important who the builder is? – Somewhere the 50 million to 60 million are already rolled. – This is, as it were, the attitude behind it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Then “catch” two construction companies. However, they are obviously also divided between the two coalition partners from the support, and the result is... [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Who is in this coalition?]] It was just a partial alliance on this question. The result is: There's nothing going on at the Klagenfurt Stadium. [[Intervocations at the SPÖ and calls to the liberals.]] Please listen now, because now the other federal states are coming! At the Salzburg Stadium, you can't do anything either, because you don't know if, if you don't have the Klagenfurt Stadium, there will be the European Championship here at all. Finally, one throws the money out, and it does not happen at all. The same problem exists with the Innsbruck Stadium. – All those who cried hot at the Vienna Stadium yesterday at 1 : 0 against Wales, should do much more for it! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Murauer.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you are responsible for sports, do not always send Karl Schweitzer, who still believes that the builder is Klagenfurt! That's not true at all! But that doesn't matter! Let us leave him in this faith! It is important that the Federal Chancellor now tells us who is responsible. – I say: The Federation is responsible, and I assume he will confirm it to me. But what is the Federal Chancellor doing now? – Something has to be done, because it cannot continue. 100 000 fans want this European Championship to be held with us. The tourism industry wants it to be more than 2,000 jobs, it's about Austria's image and television transmission. That's all you want to do? Just because there's nothing going on in the reconstruction of a stadium? I mean, that's such a fundamental failure that only that would be enough that you stand up silently from the seats and say: Okay, let's do it to the others, we can't! – That would be the logical consequence! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now the lights are shining. [[Abg. Neudeck: Thank God!]] I would have liked to talk about security. You know the numbers, but I call them again, you never write them down, but you should write them down slowly! There were 500,000 offences in 1999, 643 000 crimes were committed in 2004, and the investigation rate has fallen. I don't hear anything from the Ministry of the Interior. I don't hear anything! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Wash your ears!]] Prokop is an interior minister, but her husband has become almost better known than she was at the time. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I'm just saying that. I won this impression. We have already dealt with the PISA crash. If you're working with us: Good! This has the consequences of this on the part of the world. But now you're also starting to get involved with the church. I'll warn you! This may not only have this kind of consequences! [[Cheerfulness at the SPÖ.]] I would also like to take into account what the Church wants on this issue. I also wanted to cut down on the health sector. You already know that there have been 15 new loads since 2000: Recipe fee, hospital fee, higher self retention in case of healing, self-retaining in case of vision and so on, and the deficits of the health insurance continue to rise. You don't show any solution skills either. The problem with this government is that there is a very long list of unfinished things and problems that have not been addressed. Of course, it's our job to point out, but it's time for you to know for yourself that the worm is really in the bale and that it's powerful and powerful and powerful. As you know, too many worms in the balcon cause everything to collapse, and it's soon that far. Faith You're me! And I'll tell you: You deserve this too! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr. Bundeskanzler, if you think I've just listed Mickey Mouse issues now, please tell me! If all these Mickey Mouse themes are, please tell me! [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] [[President Dipl.-Ing. Princehorn gives the bell sign.]] I'm done! Last sentence: The Federal Chancellor said that he was referring to the FPÖ that he would remember the situation of the Zgonc advertising, where it said: “If only he can stand it, the Zgonc!” In the second sentence of the Zgonc advertising logger, it says: “Raunz net, buy!” Mr Bundeskanzler, the principle of this federal government is: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no! – I think I have proved that the Austrians were the ones who paid for it – and it is now quite slow!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12586	To answer the urgent question, the Federal Chancellor has spoken. The speaking time should not exceed 20 minutes. - Please, Federal Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e12607	High house! I am very grateful that Josef Cap has longing for the answer of a urgent request by me. You know, ladies and gentlemen, that I would like to come here and speak here in the House. I like to discuss with you, because I think there is something going on in the dialogue or discourse. That is why I would like to thank you again for this urgent request. They said we now had the shortest Council of Ministers in history. – That’s not quite true! In addition, a total standstill should be sued. . I am therefore allowed to announce to the Austrian public the agenda yesterday with the concrete decisions. We agreed yesterday on the European Constitution, the new Constitutional Treaty, and allocated it to the House. At the same time, we have also decided on an information campaign to ensure that Austrian citizens really know what this new European Constitution will say. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Bures.]] That's not unimportant, I'd say. We have jointly proposed to Parliament an important new Constitution which provides for the abolition of the two-thirds majority in education. This is very important so that the blockade ceases and we can really take a modern reform course in education. As I said, I mean, that's not unimportant. They ask for infrastructure: Yesterday it was decided that the Semmering Base Tunnel and the Summerauerbahn would be preferred. This is now the joint decision of the Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] These are two-quarters of billions of additional infrastructure expenditure. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That is the concrete answer, Mr Cap. If you say that's the standstill, then I'd like to recommend: Read the agenda of the Council of Ministers, and then you will see that the real topics and not Mickey Mouse topics are as they unfortunately spent time in the first 10 minutes of your inquiry. We're working, you're talking, that's the difference! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I very much agree with you and also with the SPÖ Chairman: The most important issue that is currently moving the citizens of Austria is, of course, the question of the working world: To create jobs, to keep jobs, to invigorate the economy. These are important topics, and I hope for all of us! I would like to reject something with pity: Hopefully not all of you heard it, maybe, as I hope, you didn't mean it like this: You have here – I have understood it anyway – meant that we are using unemployment as a completely conscious political concept by the Federal Government or even me personally. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: Awesome!]] I would like to reject this with all my determination, dear Josef Cap! Take it back! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I would never have come to the idea that any parliamentarian here in the House or any of my predecessors would have played so easily with an important topic! We want to create and get jobs, get jobs, and we also want to give entrepreneurs the appropriate framework conditions. We are working very consistently on this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Faith You're telling me: This topic is more important than the first half of your Kasperliade you have offered. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Whether any Member has said this or that, it is not an issue that will only be dealt with in a close manner, Mr Deputies. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On the other hand, last week the European Council decided on a number of key issues on this subject: First of all, we have held a social partners' trilogue with the addition and substantial participation of Austrian trade union president Fritz Verzetnich, the Austrian Minister for Social Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and myself, and I believe that important issues have been discussed on the subject and on the subject. We have adopted a new, effective, binding and flexible Stability and Growth Pact, and instead of the old Lisbon Strategy, which no human has understood, we have set up a new partnership for growth and employment, and precisely in line with the Austrian reforms, the recommendations of the European Council are also moving: tax relief, more for research and development, pension security reforms to be able to absorb demographic development, market openings so that consumers can also benefit from it, and also reasonable privatisations. National reform programmes will be developed to this end. In autumn, each country will propose such a programme. We will also do so, and I may invite, in agreement and also after consultation with the Vice-Cancellor, to an appointment on the first of May at lunchtime or in the afternoon, which I hope is enjoyed by everyone. There should be a reform dialogue on growth and employment, and all of them should put their concepts on the table. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] That seems to me to be important. Mr Gusenbauer! This includes your ideas as well as the proposals made by the social partners in the trilogue, including, of course, the proposals of the parties, the practitioners as well as the economic researchers, including the countries and communities. Let us develop something in this regard together! Austria is not so badly positioned. In any case, we have the best labour market data in the European Union, and we want to improve it. Let us work on it, then we will have a joint reform programme in autumn, which we hope will be able to dispute. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Allow me, however, to mention some of the issues which you have not mentioned here, but which are contained in the explanatory statement of the urgent question. I will then come to the specific questions, but there are some things that cannot be left in the room, what has been said here. To ÖIAG: I am truly grateful for being able to say quite specifically what the situation of ÖIAG is today. I do not say this now accusingly, but I have taken over and the ministers have a debt package of over €6 billion. Ladies and gentlemen! Even in this legislative period, dear Austrians – because in the end you should have paid it! – the ÖIAG will be debt-free, and this is a huge success, and we do not need to let that be done badly! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And there we will still... – Yes, yes! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] And there the ÖIAG, Mr Deputies, will still have a positive value in terms of nearly €4 billion. That means: We have taken over a debt mountain of 6.5 billion, at the end of the legislative period we will be debt-free and still have a assets of 4 billion. [[Calls and calls between ODP and SPÖ MPs.]] Dear friends, this balance can be seen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Bures: You were the Minister of Economic Affairs at the time!]] Take a very concrete example: I remember very well that more than a year ago, in the context of the Upper Austrian country election campaign – that hurts, I know exactly – the SPÖ, especially its chairman Gusenbauer and the business spokespersons have campaigned against the privatisation of the Voest. [[ongoing calls to the SPÖ]] Today – you can judge this calmly and objectively with a certain distance – the voestalpine stock price has almost doubled since this full privatisation of ÖIAG, from 31 to 61 €. This is a successful record, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The voestalpine is detectable, verifiable today better than ever, record results are written. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] The first three quarters of last year brought a 23 percent increase in sales. Today, the Group employs 800 employees more than at the time of the Landtagswahl in Upper Austria. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And the Linz site will invest €2 billion to make Linz the state-of-the-art steel site throughout Europe. Dear friends! That's what the public should know! And with this balance I like to go out, to Upper Austria, to Linz wherever you want to say: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Tribulation: 150 million...!]] This policy is right, it deserves public support. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Now on the individual points of the urgent question. The first three questions relate to the labour market situation. It is right that much has been done here, but more needs to be done. We have, for example, made enormous efforts for young people. In my term of office, we introduced an apprenticeship premium of €1,000 per apprentice for the first time. Today we spend 120 million € only for these programmes, for the educational economy. There was no single euro in this area before 1999 – a great success! And for the first time, the number of teaching contracts concluded also increases slightly, with the total number of youth employees increasing. Today, we have around 4,000 young people more than a year ago, and youth unemployment has fallen by 1.6%. And for the first time in many years, the number of apprentices has increased again in the first year, to at least 36 000. – Thanks to the economy! But also there is: There's more to do! In addition, we have about 10,000 young people on the labour market service in training and, together with SPÖ, the youth training programme with almost 8,000 young people, which is exactly what is required here, namely that each youth has either a school place, a teaching centre or a training course. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: They didn't!]] And that's important, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In addition, the Federal Government, the Länder and the municipalities provide 1 800 teaching places by the public authorities. That is what I believe we are quite well placed. As far as expenditure on active labour market promotion is concerned, I would now like to get away from the GDP figures because I forget You don't: The Netherlands is a little worse than we are – not much! – but Sweden and France are much worse than we are. Of course, these countries have to spend more on their unemployment than a country such as Austria, which has the third best data in this regard. The following is also very clearly said here, ladies and gentlemen, in particular those of the Social Democracy: Compared to 1999, expenditure on active and active labour market support has doubled! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek:...PISA!]] If you say this to this speaker's desk too, then you've told the whole truth, not just half! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Bures: Final light!]] As far as the question of replacement for unemployment in Austria is concerned, we are in the upper middle of the European Union. We have introduced a fair system, i.e. a uniform net replacement rate of 55 percent, i.e. with rising wages, the average unemployment rate and emergency aid are also increasing automatically. For comparison only: In 1999, under a socialist Social Minister, unemployment benefit amounted to €672, in 2004 at €715. So we are not bad at all, and we have put in place a whole series of other measures. On Question 4, which reads as follows: “Why were no additional measures for growth and employment introduced in the 2005 and 2006 budgets? “: Mr deputies, you have really missed that with 1. In January, the largest tax relief ever seen in Austria has entered into force? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] More than €3 billion has been “put into effect” so that we can boost the economy in order to promote investment. [[Abg. Gradwell: And how many jobs did you create with it?]] - Excuse me, honourable Member, that is almost depressing if you say so, namely, if a tax reduction is to occur on 1st. In effect, Mr President, I would like to ask you: And how many jobs were created in March? With confidence said: This is a long-term investment that will secure Austria's location for the next ten years. [[Call the SPÖ:Ah so!]] That's what I'm saying. We must think beyond the legislative period. And that is what we have done with this tax reform! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Cap, you are always talking about the ‘scrupulous course’: Let us also say here that the budget, which will now be decided tomorrow, will have Austria, with 40.7 percent of the tax rate next year, the lowest tax rate, tax and tax rate, for 15 years! For 15 years, this will be the lowest load rate! That's the truth! [[Congratulations and bravado with the ÖVP, as well as congratulation with representatives of the liberals.]] We are proud that we have rehabilitated the budget, that we have never been in danger of infringing the deficit criteria, and that we have now benefited the most tax relief to the paying population, to the employees as well as the entrepreneurs. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] But there have also been concrete increases, such as the first increase in the care allowance for years, enforced by Ursula Haubner and Herbert Haupt, which I can bring in here, and of course also Sigi Dolinschek. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] For the first time we have increased family allowances for a long time, we have increased pensions by 450 million this year alone, and this year we spend more than €6 billion more than in 1999 than you have last presented to the Social Minister. Ladies and gentlemen! This can be seen and, I believe, is a very concrete answer to your question! As far as research is concerned, I should like to point out that there are 30 million additional for this next year; the special offensive of € 220 million will continue; a €3.3 billion research foundation has been set up; the “house of research” will start its work next year. The research premium has been introduced, with research spending increased by €1.5 billion since 1999, resulting in: The research rate has increased from 1.9 to 2.3 percent. A very concrete answer to the legitimate question: What are you doing to boost the economy? – This is what I just listed, and that can be seen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Question No 5 addresses the infrastructure as well as the next questions. May I just point out the following: We spend 60 percent more on road and rail investment over the period 2000 to 2006, i.e. during the two legislative periods that we have been responsible for so far, than over the period of those six years before when your transport and financial ministers took the main responsibility. [[Abg. Bures: Do you know that for 2006?]] If you say that's too little, I ask Josef Cap: You were also in Parliament at the time, why did you not fight for more investment in this area at the time? [[Call at the SPÖ: Because the ÖVP has blocked!]] We are doing what is rightly required here: We connect Austria to the neighbouring countries! We build the Koralm Tunnel, the Semmering Base Tunnel, the Summerauer Route. In the ASFINAG alone, €800 million were added in 2004 and newly installed and expanded. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Question 6 refers to the Ministry of Infrastructure. The postal service regulation is not a question of executing me. [[Abg. Gradwelt: But are you still a coordinator of the Federal Government?]] On question 7 concerning the Lower Austrian project: That's a good question, and I'll tell you again: The project is not new! Why, in fact, did social-democratic German Chancellors, Finance Minister, infrastructure ministers not implement this project? [[Call the SPÖ:Pröll!]] I can tell you the truth: This old project is simply no longer competitive, is no longer contemporary. And everyone knows that anyway! You, Mr Cap, have said this yourself in an additional sentence, which you, I believe, did not intend at all: What does Ma need a second tube? – For security reasons, Mr Cap! In Europe, yes, all over the world today, two-thread tunnels are prescribed to ensure that security is correct! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Don't make it so easy and ask everything: She's gone? For what? What do you need to do? This ancient “Vienna’s demand” is simple in the 21st century. By the end of the 19th century! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The "Waltraud-Stolen" also has two tubes!]] You should not forget that either, Mr Cap. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Again: Why this new project? What is its advantage? – You can discuss this without passion. – First advantage: For the first time, representatives of the countries of Lower Austria, Styria and Upper Austria – the word “Summerauerbahn” – have been put together in a trick and they want to move something. No one wants to prevent anything, but there is something to move together for the location Austria, for the triangle Graz/Linz/Vienna. It's also about optimal security, optimal economy, because if the ÖBB itself said that the old Ghega stretch has a slope of 25 Promills, the old project “Semmering new” had a slope of 11 Promills, while the Koralmbahn has a slope of 6 Promills, i.e. half, then it's clear: That's how a new needle tube would have been created! One could have transported much less tons on the track after the realization of this old project than is the case with this new project. Again: The ÖBB itself and its experts – that is not a political decision – say that this new project is better. [[Abg. Eder: Isn't everything right!]] We believe that this is also easier to enforce, but it costs – that is right – about €250 million more. So instead of €1 billion, €1.25 billion. [[Abg. Eder: It's never built!]] Now I ask – and I mean, that should be discussed honestly –: What is better: that a project that would have cost € 1 billion will never be built because the dispute weighs from time to time and for security reasons this project will never come – or a project that is somewhat expensive but can be realized in agreement between the affected federal states? [[Abg. Eder: Not the other one either!]] I think a practitioner will say – and you, dear Kurt Eder, are a practitioner, a professional who understands something about building: Yes, this project is better; let's realize it together! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Question 8: Transit policy, Road Costs Directive, Brenner Base Tunnel. There is, I think, no difference between all of us. Together we want a modern road cost directive – hopefully a cross-party – that gives us the opportunity to finance across the road – from the motorway to the rail, otherwise these projects will never be expected. We want Austria to become involved in the trans-European networks – after all, there are six Austria within the framework of the 30 European networks; Hubert Gorbach has done that by the way – enforced it. We also want to achieve optimal co-financing for this – and also that the EU Commission does not pursue or even withdraw its complaints. That's, like I mean, things. We have convinced the Italians to make a joint project with us; Tirol will be co-financed. On the last visit of the German Chancellor, I invited Gerhard Schröder to enter this joint project with a sum of – perhaps also small – with a small contribution, because then we would already be three important countries in this regard and would certainly do us easier to do what is going to be achieved overall. Today, EU Transport Commissioner Jacques Barrot is in Innsbruck and South Tyrol, and I very much hope that the local eye-catching on Barrot will open the eyes to the fact that something really needs to be done. And I hope there are no differences between the parties, because: We must fight together, ladies and gentlemen of opposition and government groups, so that we can really achieve something in Brussels! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] On question 9, Spielberg concerning: It is true that, after the environmental senate has tipped this project for formal reasons, we have set up a “task force” under the chairmanship of Hubert Gorbachmit Martin Bartenstein and Josef Pröll. After all, a very concrete project has come out in the Obersteiermark, which the Styrian head of state has already presented: [[Abg. Well, that's it? What?]] A package of around € 290 million will be developed for the coming years. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: Projects... Not yet a single one...!]] This includes joint federal and regional funding, ERP-credite and aws-enforcement instruments. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Mr. Bundeskanzler, is this also a "long-term planning" for the next ten years?]] As has been said, it is very important to work together: For example, one should involve the industrialists in the Styria, attract international experts and so on. There's no difference at all: If we can help the Steiermark, we're all there. [[Congratulations to representatives of the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] However, the sudden enthusiasm of the SPÖ for the race track in Spielberg is already remarkable – I would like to say this here. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: You broke her! The ÖVP broke up!]] I remember very well: I was Minister of Economic Affairs and was then asked by the Styrian state government, including Waltraud Klasnic, Josef Krainer and Gerhard Hirschmann, who was then responsible for tourism, to do something from the federal side for this region. [[Abg. May. Worm: Were you in the Federal Government at the time? Really?]] I have been incredibly hard to get approval of my budget in the Federal Government at the time – nothing more has happened! – a little rededication. – And so it came for conversion to Formula One. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: And now you've broken it!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: But you were never in the Federal Government?- Oh, my God!]] Members of parliament have not once, but more often noticed that he has literally explained that the promotion of the federal government and Styria is simply a “scandal” when it comes to an auto-event project in Spielberg. [[Cheerfulness and Ah-Rufe at the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – I remember exactly that. Sure: everything documented! The enemy of Deputies Herbs is the archive; there you will find all its sayings. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] I also remember very accurately that in 1995 both a SPÖ and a SPÖ site were published in the Styrian country election campaign: 500 million schilling for Formula 1: “blue-black waste” instead of saving! – That’s the truth! [[Oh- and "Zickzack" call at the ÖVP.]] Mr Cap, your crocodiles for Spielberg are not real! I am always to have – this is well known and reviewed – that we generously promote in Spielberg that we interpret the red carpet for investors, but it is not helpful if the Styrian SP party chairman Voves expresses himself mockily and sluggishly about Sigi Wolf and Frank Stronach. That's what I'm saying here: I am grateful that Magna – via Frank Stronach and Sigi Wolf – has so far created 10,000 jobs, even more, in Austria. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] – This is not a Mickey Mouse theme, deputies! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Mr Voves may also think about it: An investor can be driven away quickly – but to win it is often a very, very laborious thing! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] We should also bring together a cross-party shoulder closure! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Question No 10, which reads as follows: “Why does the Federal Government refrain from a constitutional anchoring of school money” – et cetera? , I can say quite openly: [[Abg. Silhavy: Mr. Mateschitz is not the Voves!]] Because of us no one at all would just want to introduce school money! We are even obliged to guarantee freedom of education. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yesterday, Mr Cap, Mr President, you were shaken and weighing your head, with the new EU Constitution, a provision was decided – and we have presented it to the House – in which the freedom of education is explicitly enshrined. [[Abg. May. Worm: With the study contributions you have said this...!]] That's expressly in there! For further education, freedom of education is explicitly defined in a UN Convention on Children's Rights! [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] I therefore guarantee here in front of the television cameras, in front of the House, that the ÖVP – and I believe the same is true of the coalition partner FPÖ – does not think of shaking school money! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Bures:... don't believe!]] I hope, Mr Gusenbauer and Mr Cap, you can guarantee this for your party as well, because with great interest I have read that the young socialists criticize your path, your shoulder closure with the Catholic Church. [[Abg. Bures: You said this at the study fees before too!]] Who knows, perhaps there is already a coming SPÖ party chairman – you, Member Gusenbauer and MP Cap, have also been with the young socialists – who may then reverse what you, Mr. Party Chairman Gusenbauer, have now agreed with Cardinal Schönborn. [[Rejoicing at the ÖVP]] I stand for it – and everyone knows it –: We don't want to introduce school money! Everyone knows that we will, of course, maintain religious teaching! Everyone knows we stand for the free choice of parents to decide whether they want to give their children all day care – or whether you don't need it! We are available for a differentiated school system that has made us strong and has produced wise children. That's for discussion! We are ready – in order to say that very openly – to include in the Constitution any educational article that formulates good, true, beautiful and meaningful, tolerance, human rights, dignity, religious and moral values. We can do this in the Austrian Convention or in the new Constitution. Some of these proposals are already on the table; a separate committee will be set up for this purpose. Again: We are at any time ready to make such a formulation with you, Mr Gusenbauer. This will not fail. [[Abg. Bures: Nobody believes you!]] And everyone knows that too: Tactics are one thing, but the principles we all hope for are quite different. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP as well as on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Question 11 refers to the Future Commission, which will report to the Minister for Education in spring 2005. On question 12 concerning university funds: More than € 2 billion is available to the university this year. That's 6 percent more than in 2003. In addition, €50 million for 2005 and 2006 for the UniINFRASTRUKTUR III programme. By the end of May, the universities will be able to submit their applications. In the years 2004 to 2006, they have a total of almost €70 billion – in old currency: 1 billion Schilling – available for post-purchasing research infrastructure. In addition to this, investment is being made via the Bundesimmobiliengesellschaft. Since 1999, almost 40 large university buildings have been completed – with construction costs of almost €300 million. On the question 13 concerning self retention: The enemy of the urgent question is also the archive, Mr Cap! All self-containment or almost all restraints have been introduced under Social Democratic Social and Health Ministers health insurance fees, prescription fee. [[Oh-Rufe at the ÖVP]] If you say it's unsocial, you mean yourself, then take it. You're on your nose. That's what your predecessors introduced. However, they have also contributed to the establishment of one of the best health systems in Europe. The estimates for the losses in 2005 and 2007 are very careful estimates, which usually never occur, because, of course, savings are being countered, especially in the field of administration. This can also be assessed retroactively. I'm also saying something about it: We should have the courage to stand by what we have negotiated together. The financial compensation for the coming years has been fixed in the consensus between the federal, state and local authorities. There were social democrats, Christian Democrats and Freemans. The Greens are not there, they can logically criticize this because they do not have to or should not carry this consensus. But the other political parties that have jointly decided to compensate should also have the courage of the Austrian public to do so. That was at least €600 million of additional money, additional resources that will ultimately guarantee the quality of our education system, our health system. We shouldn't make it as easy as some of your side who say again and again: If all the knits tear, then we increase the posts. . I believe that we know consistently across all party borders that we have already reached a relatively high platform with the additional wage costs. They shake the head questioningly. I can prove to you that, for example, the head of the state, Burgstaller, was still on 5 May. August last year said: When a person is asked: Are you willing to pay more for medical progress?, of course, everyone says yes. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not lying!]] - I'm just mentioning that. Further: ==References== In June 2004, Burgstaller said: I think it is no shame to increase contributions if the health system is maintained for this purpose. Or: Gusenbauer said in July 2002: We can assure you that in general. This is either about higher contributions or higher restraints. Dear friends! We already have to agree on what we want. We have guaranteed sufficient funding for the health system through the financial compensation. I believe that this has been a good, right way, which will certainly help us to guarantee the quality of the system in the near future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Higher self retention!]] Now on the questions concerning the stadium in Klagenfurt. I have no dissent at all with the State Secretary Karl Schweitzer, who has his own responsibilities, as you know, and has always cared for them very well and very carefully and has also come very far. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Yes, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say one thing: Austria is still a rule of law. It may not be so, even if we may not wish that a competitor should not set an appeal in motion. Where are we going?- Oh, my God! I'm not right either, and I don't like it either. It is quite delicious to want to assign Director General Pöchhacker of the Porr company to my political camp or to the former representatives of the Liberal Party of Hazelsteiner one of the two coalition parties. This has nothing to do with it at all, but it is a normal competition. This is a hard thing to do, and the rule of law must be complied with. I am not yet at risk of the 2008 European Football Championship project. [[Abg. Bures: Not yet!]] It is not yet a matter of talking about a crisis as a whole that legal proceedings have been taken. I would like to see the debate reversed, which would be said if a head of government said there should be no appeals. I have to put that quite openly to the discussion here. Just think of the discussion about the EIA law, in which we have made ways of facilitating it precisely for these reasons. – By the way, you voted against what I can only remember by the way. [[Abg. May. Worm: The interests of citizens have been trampled with feet!]] On the client question: It is perfectly clear and also to read in the tender documents – each candidate knows this – that the city of Klagenfurt is the client and builder. This is black and white in the tender documents. What you meant was the application to UEFA. But this is long ago and has nothing to do with the call for tender. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: (in the direction SPÖ) Uninformed as always!]] By the way, no appeal has been brought against these tender documents, which is why this fact is legally binding. Like the country of Carinthia, the federal government is only the promoter. [[Abg. Neudeck: It’s just a luck that they don’t rule!]] Talking about alternative projects now, I don't think that's smart. There will be a decision by the Environment Senate in Carinthia in mid-May, and then it will have to continue to be decided. If the project cannot be developed, then, of course, it will need to be discussed in good time with the ÖFB about alternative projects. – I also thank all those who have already expressed their willingness to be able to jump in at any time. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] On the question 18: When the results of the Bundesheerreform-Commission are available, there is no question about me. But the Minister of Defense says that it is still to be expected before the summer. Moreover, in the budgetary negotiations, it has been disputed that the proceeds from the property sale benefit the ministry 100 percent. Question 19 was a question of opinion, which is supposed to confirm a crisis. Mr President, I do not think very much of surveys as you know, because, in reality, a good substance is still the best basis for a good starting point, for a discussion and discussion with the electorate. But interesting are other surveys, which, for example, the SPÖ attribute 29 percent of a falling reform competence and the ÖVP with 36 percent an increasing trend. [[Abg. Brosz: The survey values of Minister Gehrer also?]] I don't care about the surveys. I don't care about the daily hits either. I'm trying to make good policy for Austria. In principle, the result is not bad. You only need to read the international press that talks about Austria in very nice, almost high tones. – I am not a soprano, nor a tenor, I am a baritone, therefore: more down to earth. – But I am pleased about this report from abroad. I hope you can understand it a little bit.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13589	We are now going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, no speaker may speak for more than 10 minutes, with each club having an overall speaking time of 25 minutes. Mr Magistrate has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Darabos. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13626	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Mr Bundeskanzler, I can remind you twice that we are here in the Austrian Parliament, twice because this should not be a fairy tale hour at first and we are not in the Federal Chancellery, and that is even more serious, because the instrument of a urgent question is the instrument of Members in the Austrian Parliament. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: I didn't expect this criticism on the cap!]] I would like to draw attention to your views, “Kasperliade”, “Mickey-Mouse-Themes”! [[Call the ÖVP – towards the Abg. Dr. Cap showing –: There he sits]] For us, there are no Mickey-Mouse issues when it comes to 364,000 unemployed people in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now on the term “tale hour”: I would like to respond shortly to your reply, which was very long against your other customs as a pig-cancer. [[Abg. Neudeck: If he doesn't talk, it's not right, he speaks for a long time, it's not right either!]] First: Tax rate in Austria. Her government – Federal Chancellor Schüssel, Finance Minister Grasser – has the highest tax rate to answer in the Second Republic. The tax rate is up to 45 percent! Secondly, Voest-privatisation. If it had happened after you, the cover “Minerva” would have long been a disaster of the Voest. The doubling of the stock price has nothing to do with privatisation, but with investment activities. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] Thirdly, They are talking about a pension increase in the Austrian Parliament. However, they have the greatest pension reduction reform to take place in the Second Republic. Reality is one, your perception obviously the other. But people don't take this policy from you anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Fourth: The school money question. If that's what you're talking about, we're going to put it in the law, that's easy. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: This is in the law!]] But we don't trust you. In the study fees question, you also said before the elections that you would not import study fees, and then you introduced study fees. That is why you need to keep to us that we do not trust you on this issue. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] Fifth, you open a bottle They say that the archive is the enemy of some Members. It's like someone's sitting in the glass house and throwing stones. [[Abg. Grandruck: Go, stop!]] I would just like to mention three points. First point: You said shortly before the election, Mr Bundeskanzler, interception hunters would not be financed from the budget, but through a “economic platform”. It's in the archive. What happened? – It was financed by the budget. Second point: You have just said that there are no interventions in pensions, there are no pension reductions. What happened after the election? – There was a pension reduction reform to an extent that has never been the case in this Republic. Third point: They have talked about a tax reform – also to be read in the archive – which brings €1,000 to every worker in Austria. What happened? – The tax reform you sell as a century reform averages €11. The truth is the daughter of the time, that has once been said by the President of the National Council. The archive is the enemy especially of the Federal Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] That we're talking about standstill isn't about it. That will not be denied either by your beautiful speech. Don't be angry with me, Mr. Federal Chancellor, but your attitude reminds me very much of the three legendary Japanese monkeys: see nothing, hear nothing, speak nothing. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Now you just said he spoke too long. I don't know myself anymore!]] Your activities, which you've been using in recent months, are fragrant. If you were in the casino, you could say: Rien ne va plus! - Nothing's going on. There are no measures on the part of your government to combat unemployment, there are no measures to improve education and training, which may bring improvements to the labour market. There are no measures to strengthen infrastructure, which could also lead to a redundancie on the labour market. There are no measures in the field of education. There is no effective health reform. There is a word: Stand still. In view of this, you are here and say: All palettes?- Oh, my God! I already understand your outrageous degree of refusal of reality. They want to cover that you are not the anchor of stability, like your Adlates – first of all Clubobmann Molterer – on land, drumming down. In fact, you are not the anchor of stability, but you are the trigger of a veritable government crisis in Austria. I'll also explain why. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] They have brought this FPÖ back to the government, for better knowledge. [[Abg. Großruck: Gusenbauer has the Secretary General he deserves!]] In spite of the will of large population groups, they started an experiment a second time with a party that was never government-able. They have simply continued a project condemned from the very beginning to fail out of a personal scale of power against the interests of Austria and against a possible good development of our home country Austria. [[Abg. Großruck: Gusenbauer has the Secretary General he deserves!]] You will not, as you would have liked, enter Austrian history as a rector, but as a politician, who has led Austria in the wrong direction against better knowledge, has made it more unsocial and has artificially preserved a government constellation that is constantly tumultuous from “speed kills” to “no longer goes”. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! You already have to make the accusation that you are acting in the way that you have to say now: I won't let go of the ghosts I called! [[Abg. Neudeck: How long can be 5 minutes!]] This also applies to your coalition partner FPÖ, even there the saying: The spirits I called, I won't let them go! For years to make a right policy, to want to address a certain potential, and to wonder when the representatives of a wing look up, that is thought to be a lot of naïve! [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is the Kalina effect!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Darabos defends mills!]] To clarify, Mr Scheuch: No real democrat in Austria is crying out to Mr Mölzer. But not Mr Mölzer is the problem, but the problem is your government policy! They have betrayed people's interests. They have tried to spread sand into the eyes of people, promised them a lot and kept nothing of it. Their crash in the election favor is not related to the right, the ultra-right or the right-wing national wing of the FPÖ, but to a government policy that has betrayed the interests of the people. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A nice end point!]] That is why it is no wonder that the Austrians see this as well. It has already been mentioned that 75 percent of the Austrians say – and this must also be thought to you, Mr. Federal Chancellor – that this government is no longer fully operational. 67 percent, two out of three Austrians, say they want a new social government. By the way, 62 percent say... – Yes, that's your policy! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] They also talk to the people outside and therefore know that this is seen in such a way that the basic needs of the health and housing sector are no longer met, that the gap between the poor and the rich is increasing, that the perception of the interests of the Black-Blue policy has become worse over the past five years, to an extent that is not due to empirical inaccuracy, because at least the two thirds of the people in Austria see that. Dear colleagues from ÖVP and FPÖ, you can still laugh like this: That's it! People feel that way. You will then, when it is time – I hope soon, the 23. April is already at the door – also to decide what a new policy in Austria has to look like. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I tell you the following at the end – and that's what's really objectionable to your policy –: 364,000 unemployed people complain. But the Minister responsible for this said: We already have the best employment situation in Europe! By the way, that's not true. Talk to the people who are unemployed! Talk to their families! These are not 364,000 people in Austria, 800 000 to 900 000. We don't care about their fate. Federal Chancellor! Make sure that this standstill ceases in your government, or free the way, because Austria deserves a better social policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13882	Mrs Silhavy spoke in favour of an actual correction. This is followed by a further actual correction by Mr Broukal. – Mrs Silhavy, you know the provisions of the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes of speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13923	Mr President. In his speech, Federal Chancellor Schüssel claimed that Franz Voves had expressed himself on Frank Stronach and Sigi Wolf and had thus driven out investors. [[Call the ÖVP: Multiple!]] I'm actually correcting: Franz Voves has said that the aim of the Styria SPÖ is to shape the Styria in such a way that investors find the best conditions and do not have to kneel for goodwill. In fact, Mateschitz was driven out by Trio Klasnic, Seisinger and Creator.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e13968	The last sentence was not part of an actual correction! [[Abg. Neudeck: Not the rest either!]] Next actual correction: Mr Broukal. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14006	Mr President. I'll make an effort. The Federal Chancellor has claimed that he does not think about introducing school fees. I quote the archive so easily conjured by the Federal Chancellor and read to him for a better memory: The compulsory schools must be free of charge. On the other hand, it is also possible to think about the area of school – literal quote – whether “all benefits have to be for nothing”. - Quote. He was not in favour of introducing a general school fee, but his own contributions for those, literally, “for whom it is reasonable” – quoting – are imaginable, according to Schüssel. So much was said about “guaranteed school money. ”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14039	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. 10 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14060	Federal Chancellor! Dear Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! In fact, the Rules of Procedure provide for a urgent request to be made today by one of the two government parties. We have very much renounced this right of urgent request, because we knew that SPÖ is one, and I am very grateful for it. – In fact, there is a tradition: Firstly, every urgent request made by the SPÖ is one of the same: It's a shot going backwards, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Secondly, each of these urgent questions by the SPÖ enables Mr Bundeskanzler to present the success story of Austria here in the High House – in a brilliance for which we are grateful because it corresponds to the work of this Federal Government! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Aw!]] [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It was obvious that you – and not just you! – have waited a long time for the so-called Kalina effect. [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: He's already forgotten!]] – If the Kalina effect has been that you have written in the title of your urgent request – at least as far as the Kalina effect has led – “no more goes,” then this may be the effect of the “start-clear” tour of Alfred Gusenbauer, ladies and gentlemen! If that were the Kalina effect for the SPÖ, he wouldn't disturb me. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Good night, Gusenbauer!]] Ladies and gentlemen! But that shows how you understand politics: As in Mr Cap's speech, they make a theatre out of it and show no trace of seriousness at all on the topics that move the country and the people. Today's urgent question now gives us the opportunity to work out these differences. This is where a federal government is working, which has a clear concept for the implementation of the reforms and says that it is necessary to reform in that country. – On the other hand, we have an opposition that has the clear strategy of simply saying no to all the essential things that the country is moving forward. I would also like to show you this on the basis of a few examples, Mr Cap and Mr Gusenbauer. To say no is perhaps enough for an opposition work. – I don't think so, but you like to understand. But for the work for Austria, no to say is simple and simply too little, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] What did you say no to? You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, the SPÖ, for example, have a No mention has been made of the most comprehensive reform of the research landscape in Austria, which has led Austria as a research location in Europe. – We said about this reform – and you say no to that! Ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government has said that it is the largest tax relief in the Second Republic, namely tax relief for workers and the economy, so that jobs can be created. – We said yes – and you say no to that! This government has said that it has been the largest infrastructure offensive in this country for many years: more money for the infrastructure than has ever been spent. – This government is saying "infrastructural offensive" – you simply say no, so that no to the chance of living in regions and no to create jobs, ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Preventer!]] This Federal Government has said that it is necessary to reform the pension system so that pensions are guaranteed in the long term, and has said that it is a generation agreement. – You said no about the opposition, in particular from the SPÖ, but also from the Greens. They say no to the future for youth and no to the generation treaty, ladies and gentlemen. For example, they have said no to an important location decision recently taken in the EIA-Novelle – in the revision of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. We said yes to the environment and yes to the site. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes, yes!]] They say no to this and thus no to the chances of living of regions, ladies and gentlemen. You said no to the Security Police Act, you said no to the ÖBB reform, and you have so far said no to a new constitution in the Convention. You have said no to privatization and with this you have tried to prevent economic success, ladies and gentlemen. – Thank God this federal government has not done so, but is going this clear, reform-oriented way of yes to these necessary changes. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: “Constructive” opposition policy!]] But not only do they say no – I like to admit that – but there is also a second clearly recognizable strategy of the SPÖ, which means “either-and-or”. – Journalists call it the SPÖ zigzag course. I could not invent it myself in this clarity, as journalists themselves write. – Mr Cap likes to quote newspapers. It is written, for example: “The pattern of movement suggests that ‘Gusi’ has engaged the legendary Professor Kurt Ostbahn as a dance teacher: At step vüri, i.e. step z’ruck – racial break dance for breakthrough has not become one of them. It's like an Egg Dance. East Railway Kurti would translate: “A Eiatanz!” Ladies and gentlemen! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP as well as with representatives of the liberals.]] Where did you use this “Either-and-or” zigzag course? – I would also like to mention a few examples. In terms of financial compensation, your local authorities say yes: yes to more money for the countries, yes to more money for the small rural communities. What are you saying here in the National Council? - No! In financial terms, your representatives say more money for the health system because health is worth us. What to do You in there? – You just say no! In the question of Turkey, there is the ‘either-or-even-yes-no’. - No one knows about this course. In the Asylum Act, Mr Darabos was allowed to say yes at the very beginning. Two days later he said “perhaps” three days later he had to say no because he was not allowed to say yes because “yes” in the SPÖ has become a foreign word and has either been replaced by no or by “either-and-or”. [[Abg. Grandruck: Njet!]] I am thinking, for example, of the ÖBB pension right: The government's proposal was to change it so that we can finally end this injustice. First came a careful yes of SPÖ, a few hours later – probably after a telephone call from Mr Haberzettl – the SPÖ adds small: Darabos says no. – From the yes becomes a “death-and-or”, which becomes a very quick No, when the true powerholder ÖGB suddenly said no. – That’s the naked truth! In the budget deficit: First of all, you say that there must be a zero deficit in the Constitution. Then you say that it is actually a deficit, because we need it for the labour market. Then, in the tax reform, this government gives the location impulse, and that increases – admittedly – the deficit. There's suddenly the criticism of the deficit. But that's not enough. Then there is Mr Matznetter, who makes proposals which in total cost a sum of €6 billion. Then, suddenly, the deficit is completely wreaked. How does school look like? – Two-thirds majority without When and But, Gusenbauer has said. What happened to it? – A “either-and-also” that probably leads to the no in turn. [[Abg. Murauer: ‘Starting clear’...!]] This is the SPÖ strategy. And then, at the urgent moment, criticize the pace! First it's too fast for the SPÖ, then it's too slow. I'll tell you: Our reform pace is determined by what is good for Austria and not by what the SPÖ is doing. – Our policy is guided by what is good for Austria! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In this sense, we will of course continue this reform work: with the 2006 budget, the German government reform, the new asylum law, the school package, the “Führerschein new”, the EU Constitution, the Disability Equality Act, the Civil Service Reform and, of course, with all the infrastructure projects. – I could continue the list now. [[Call the SPÖ:Please don't!]] Do you know what the crucial question is? – What brings our country forward? That is the scale of this federal government, and this federal government under the leadership of Wolfgang Schüssel and Hubert Gorbach does not just use a comparison here, ladies and gentlemen, but all international observers say with full respect that the work of this Federal Government has brought Austria forward! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Hallelujah!]] This not only reflects respect for the work of this government, Mr Cap, but also respect for Austria. And that's something you obviously lack. – May I say so, according to those answers you have given here in your speech? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Finally, I would like to draw the attention of the SPÖ colleagues to the fact that today is a non-interesting day, namely the 31. ==References== Do you know what happened today exactly ten years ago? – For the “consumer” the compensation has been notified – the country’s largest trading plate! Your responsibility!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14277	Mr Scheibner has now been reported on the floor. His welcome time is 8 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14299	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! When this urgent request was announced this morning, the stenographic protocol could have noted the following: Cheerfulness to the government parties. – Addressed by the SPÖ Members. [[Abg. Parnigoni: Yes, yes!]] You've noticed this problem. It seems that the title was not agreed. At least then, one has seen that – I have had the impression – the honourable Member Cap has gone into the ranks to explain why he has chosen this title. But this distress was still exceeded in the speech by Mr Cap and then turned into white horror when he finally brought in Andreas Mölzer as his scribe and writer of ideas, and so to speak, Mölzer and Cap contradicted what Molterer said in the government's assessment, including the liberal government team and the liberal club. [[Abg. Reheis: You are no longer affected at all!]] [[Rejoicing with the Freemans]] [[Call the SPÖ: How's the mill?]] I'll tell you: If I listen to this as an outsider and think about who I am to believe – mills, caps or molars – then I will believe more mutterer than the two others. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Silhavy: “Outstanding ”!]] [[Call the SPÖ:Are you already orange?]] [[Abg. Reheis: ÖVP government alone!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer: Scheibner prepares a flying change to the ÖVP!]] [[Call to the SPÖ: Was that the speech about the party day?]] But I know, in your opinion, now Andreas Mölzer will be the last Liberal to leave the Freedom Party. I'm just telling you: How often we can only thank ourselves for the opposition – and above all the Social Democrats! – repeatedly filed urgent requests. Mr Darabos is right: The urgent request was once one of the most important and sharpest instruments of opposition against a government party or against the government. - War! Meanwhile, it is a good platform for the government parties to present the achievements of the government. Thank you very much to the SPÖ for this urgent request! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Mr. Cap, welcome You don't get too early to predict what's going to happen to the liberals! This has been said so often in the last 15 years. I can tell you: Look in our ranks! Do you see depression, chaos or defensive somewhere there? [[Cheerfulness with the liberals.]] I'll tell you: You'll be surprised – very soon! – what you still have to expect! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At any rate, no new elections and no depression, but an active freedom group in this Parliament and in this Federal Government! And if it is provided for by constitutional law, it will be elected in autumn 2006, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I once attended an event at the “Future Workshop”. You really have to recommend going to such events and also discuss with the SPÖ base there. I mentioned that we also needed some time – and some of us also need a little longer – to get used to the sometimes unpleasant task of a government responsibility. However, the SPÖ has not yet become accustomed to the role of the opposition. Mr Cap replied that he would not want to get used to it because he wanted to rule again. I'll tell you: We will keep Austria from coming very soon. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Marizzi: You sure!]] Finally learn opposition, because that will be your role for a long time, and you should finally get used to it! [[Abg. Parnigoni: Don't blame!]] If you do not rule or play opposition, the question is what role do you not play here in the House, ladies and gentlemen. But of course one should deal with the contents of the urgent questions, and I would also like to do so as far as possible. You have addressed employment policy, but have forgotten to add to it the statistics in your time, because in 1998 you have managed to achieve similar numbers of unemployed, but in the case of a high economy, in the case of record deficits and also in the case of a record rate, Mr Cap and ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ. You know what it's all about, because you've developed innovation yourself in your network. It is this interesting institution, which will in future prepare the government programme for the SPÖ, where these tax increases have already been fixed. Your consultants say that there is a reduction in unemployment only when economic growth is more than 2.3 percent, and that there is relatively little room for national freedom. Unfortunately this is true, ladies and gentlemen, but you should not only listen to this once, but also internalize it and position yourself accordingly here. We have this responsibility that economic growth is naturally to be boosted wherever it goes. With the economic pacts I and II Austria, we have saved us from a recession, ladies and gentlemen. – You also voted against these economic packages at the time. [[Call to the Freeman: Demonstrated!]] We do everything we can to make the location of Austria more attractive and secure in the future, because only through good companies, only through good new operations, can we increase employment and increase economic growth. That is the role of this Federal Government. It is not politics that creates jobs, but companies. The framework conditions for this will create politics, the Federal Government will create, and this responsibility will also be ours in the future! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Write a word Then you continue in your urgent inquiry? - About the ÖIAG! The Federal Chancellor has already referred to it: They criticize privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen! You heard it today: Debt reduction of €6 billion, and yet the residual values in ÖIAG are worth more than before privatisation. So if this is not a success recipe for the Federal Government, I do not know, Mr Cap! [[Abg. Neudeck: It's too high for him!]] ‘Infrastructural level’ means: They are critical of the construction of the Semmering Base Tunnel. As far as safety is concerned, you have already been instructed: We have all demanded that these one-tubed tunnels be rebuilt, because after a tunnel accident everyone has failed, but that will be forgotten again. It makes sense, ladies and gentlemen. – We have opened the road tunnel, and for many years there has been nothing going on with the railway tunnel. At last this Gordic knot could be cut through, now a little further, and we will also be able to tackle the construction of the railway tunnel – safely and therefore two-threaded. This is an infrastructure initiative that can be seen, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! Health reform. That's really the best: The prescription fees have been increased four times in these four years. Yes, why have they been raised four times? – Because there is the annual valorization of the recipe fees! When has it been introduced? – Under the Government of Kreisky in the early 1980s! [[Abg. Bures: Go, please!]] That's your wrong information that you're spreading over and over again. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Hypocrite!]] This has also been seen at the event already quoted, where a official has stood up and has said that under this Federal Government the taxes have been incredibly increased. When we said that a month ago the greatest tax relief had been received and implemented, it was answered that it was not true that the taxes had been increased and everyone had complained. Of course, one can form one's own truth, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy, but reality is something else. I'll tell you: The population can very well distinguish between your subjective truth and reality, and this is a good for Austria and for the population, ladies and gentlemen of social democracy! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I do not have time to mention a few other things that this Federal Government has implemented since 2000. I have just written out the most important points and can give you that to change this subjective truth a little bit. There are 50 points: From the redundancies new on equality between workers and employees – one of your core topics that you have never enforced; we have implemented it with the ÖVP after a few weeks! – through the disabled billions, the childcare allowance, the ÖBB reform, the increase of the penalty, the tax reform, the animal welfare law up to the administrative reform and, and, [[Abg. Eder: Horrible! The ÖBB reform is terrible!]] Ladies and gentlemen! You should take note of this. Not standstill, but progress is the motto of this Federal Government, and that will remain so! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We also set ourselves the objectives of the future, and I hope that you will bring in your expertise in the implementation of the results of the Constitutional Convention in the new asylum law, on the issue of education policy, on the definition of the heavy-worker regulation that we are in the house, on the reform of the German army and on the implementation of the results of the Constitutional Convention. – These are the challenges for the next weeks and months! If you already quote newspaper articles, you could have brought one out of the “New Zurich newspaper” that once wrote a real praise for this federal government... – No, I don’t quote it anyway. [[Abg. Oils: Not again!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: But you have to quote that!]] It is only so interesting because one has written in this newspaper, one no longer understands that the EU has imposed sanctions at the beginning of this coalition government. It is written by objective observers: If sanctions were to be imposed, then if Austria returned to the black and red coalition standstill, it would be bad for Austria and therefore bad for Europe. It will be so, ladies and gentlemen! Learn opposition! We will continue to do good government work for Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[16:31]] Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14617	The following communication has just been received: "The President of the Federal Republic of Germany was elected on 31 December. The following resolution was adopted on 3 March 2005: On the proposal of the Federal Chancellor, I trust for the duration of the prevention of the Federal Minister for Justice Mag. Karin Miklausham 31. Dr. Werner Pürstl, head of the German Federal Ministry of Justice of the German Federal Ministry of Justice, was appointed to the Federal Ministry of Justice on 3 March 2005. Hievon I honor making myself known.” Mrs Bures has now referred to an actual correction. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14652	Mr President. I have an actual correction to the statements made by Klubobmann Scheibner. Mr. Klubobmann Scheibner claimed that the four-time increase in recipe fees is due to valorization. – Mr Klubobmann, don’t continue the fairy tale hour! It is true, rather, that the four-time increase means an increase of 28 percent, while inflation has been just over 10 percent over the period.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14690	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. 10 minutes of legal speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e14711	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Values listeners at the gallery! There are still some here, some younger ones too. – Mr Scheibner, I really did not want to say something about the FPÖ right now, but if you stand here and look at your own group: Look You're looking at how super-placed the liberals are, how motivated they are! . and the representatives of the Freemans look at it in question, if he meant it, then, Mr Scheibner, the denial of reality is pure. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Bravo!]] I would like to read to you from today’s “Kurier”, a quote from a comment entitled “Who is doing this? ” [[Abg. Scheibner: We have read all this! Save the speaking time!]] Quote: “First of all, the good news: The Posse has an expiry date. And the bad ones: ==References== April, the date for the FPÖ Self-Resolution Party Day, we need to inform you, my dear reader, about the heroic developments in the blue camp, despite repeated unhappiness.” That is the reality, Mr Scheibner. [[Abg. Neudeck: You don't have to!]] We are tired of seeing or hearing from the newspapers one day on the other every turn and mistake of the Freedom Party from the TV, from the radio, from the newspapers. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why don't you talk about the urgent ones?]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You're rubbing your hands!]] Yes, that's the sad one! – We want to work, work for Austria, and we also expect it from you, but you are only busy with yourself. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's bullshit what you're talking about! You rub your hands every day when you read something negative about the liberals!]] And what does the Federal Chancellor say about this? “When he only endures”, Zgonc!” Mr. Federal Chancellor! Who do you mean the Zgonc? Who is the “Zgonc” in your statements? Is that you? I'm sure not! The Austrians have to keep up with this for your comparison as “Zgonc”! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! Some 2,000 years ago, there was a speaker in the Roman Parliament who said: How long do you want to abuse our patience, Catilina? - That was the Cicero. [[Abg. Scheibner: This was not the Parliament, but the Senate!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: But no! That was a conspirator, a lousy one!]] - Ah, that was a conspirator, a lousy one! You have enough of that in your government, Mr. Federal Chancellor! That's where we like to watch who's next. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens as well as SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The fact that one can swim with such a shallow speech is a miracle!]] Another preliminary remark: It's a shame that Mr Schweitzer is no longer here, because I really like him... – Ah, very well, Mr Schweitzer, can you answer me a question? [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer enters the meeting room and goes to his place on the government bank.]] As Mr Schweitzer is “dressed” with a very discreet orange friendship band and thus obviously wants to demonstrate that he has made tender contacts with some oranges, the question arises: Is he with a new party now? Did we miss something? Or is this still before us, Mr. Schweitzer? – This is the Austrian sports aid? [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: (his orange bracelet falling down and satisfying it to the speaker) This is the Austrian sports aid!]] All right, I take note of it, Mr Schweitzer. [[Lively cheerfulness with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: After this is a speech!]] Perhaps it's also a help for the Freedom Party. [[Unrest in the hall.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] [[The speaker turned to the government bank and handed over the orange bracelet again State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer.]] Back to the subject. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have rightly said that we must think beyond the legislative period. This is particularly difficult for your Federal Government because the legislative periods are always so short, because this federal government is constantly disbanding itself in advance. But we would have nothing against it, Federal Chancellor, if the government had made its promises if you would take seriously your promises, which you made prior to entering a legislative period, if you would redeem them and say at the end of the legislative period: Yes, we have actually achieved that for this country! I would like to address the problem that the government and you, Federal Chancellor, have become totally unbelievable on this issue beyond the errors and confusions of the Freedom Party. Mr Bundeskanzler, you said in 2000: We will create 200 000 jobs in the next few years. I have the quote here. Do you know how many it has become? 20 000 jobs have been said to have been more created since 2000. [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] If you convert this from part-time jobs to full-time jobs, then a zero remains below the line. On the other hand, you, Mr Bundeskanzler, say that there are only 30,000 unemployed at the time. I am sorry if I have to say so, but the government has not really shone in recent years because it has only taken the problem of unemployment seriously. The reality is, Mr Federal Chancellor, that there are no more 30 000 unemployed, but 60 000 to 70 000 unemployed have become more since the year 2000! No jobs have been created, although you have promised 200 000, and 60 000 to 70 000 more unemployed. There are the numbers, Mr. Federal Chancellor! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: No,...!]] Of course! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: The Federal Chancellor as a real objector!]] Clearly, Federal Chancellor, not only others have a problem with statistics... – There are no more 100 000 jobs! [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: 100 000 jobs more!]] [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Yes! Yes!]] I can read to you the answer of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. There is nothing more in there of 100,000 jobs! You yourself said two months ago that 200 000 are. Yes, do you want to negotiate the number of jobs with me, as in a Bazar? It can't be! Let's talk about the facts! Nothing happened! I also say this because we are still speaking here in front of some young listeners: The real problem beyond the fact that we have an unemployment that does not admit a federal government or a policy can influence in all points – I admit, but you could do something – the real problem is the ignorance of this federal government in terms of increasing youth unemployment. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Interference by Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel.]] Mr Bundeskanzler, you can now take your figures out again and say that we are spending € 110 million under the Youth Employment Programme. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: That's right!]] – Look It is the development of the unemployment rate among the 19-25 year olds! Exorbitant has risen in recent months, in recent years! Where are the initiatives of the Federal Government? Look How many young people do you want to see – you can ask your mayors! – sitting at home and waiting for years for a job, even though they have a matura! Look at how many young people at the age of 15 have to look for one to two years with the help of their parents until they have found a apprenticeship! And then, when they have completed the teaching, they are unemployed again! These are the realities! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Many entrepreneurs are looking for apprentices and don't get anyone!]] I know, not for everything, a federal government is responsible. But just put your head in the sand, make yourself, present some figures about the Voest share, and pretend to have recognized the problems of this country and addressed them, that's too cheap for me! [[Assembly with the Greens and with representatives of the SPÖ.]] Where are you with your proposals on unemployment? I note that you are calling for a reform dialogue once again. Now we have just had a labour market summit where Federal Minister Bartenstein said two weeks ago: second round follows. Now you come and increase it a bit with a reform dialogue. – Let's make one again! Again the same staging we already know: There are then many invited to give up five-minute statements there, and then the Federal Government will pull out some concept again, probably again some tunnel project, and say: We already know the answer, we can do better! That's no longer credible, Mr. Federal Chancellor! A reform dialogue, a summit hunts the other, and if all of this does not help, then there are round tables that are going to break up without results. Take the offer of the opposition seriously! And seriously taking means actually working, not just doing show-stages. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Take the government seriously!]] At the end of the day, however, the question is: Mr. Federal Chancellor, how do you want to survive the next months with this state of the Federal Government, until autumn 2006? How do you want to get into the EU Presidency with this state of the Federal Government, as juicy and powerless as you present yourself? What do you really have to offer on the subject of unemployment except a new reform dialogue? Faith Do you really think that Mrs Gehrer is still capable of implementing or implementing a reform in the field of education? [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: After more than you!]] Faith You really do? Faith Do you really think that next year Mr Grasser will leave out all the fat cups he has entered so far and will not jump into yet new ones? We know the members of this Federal Government! You're really in the end! You have probably really played the patience of the Austrian population!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15081	The next item is the speech by Mr Mag. Schweitzer. His speaking time is limited by 10 minutes. I'll give him the word.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15104	Mr President. Allow me to begin by thanking my colleague, Ollinger, for the opportunity to make a little advertising for an action of Austrian sports aid that works with me. [[Abg. Oillinger: Is the tie also from the sports aid?]] At 2 € you can purchase this band. This is the “Going for Gold” project. This is already geared towards 2008: Olympia in Beijing, as you may know. At €2 you can buy it and support young Austrian athletes on their success path. I'm kind enough to ask you about this. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] We know, ladies and gentlemen, that when Mr Cap is standing out here, he always follows one of his inclinations, namely that of playing theatre, and is not meant to be so serious, many things are presented with the twinkling of his eyes, and that is why what he has said today is not to take everything seriously. He has also shown it to himself when he quotes colleagues Mölzer from the newspaper “Currently”. But what he does not want to hear is, for example, by quoting how perhaps more serious journalists describe the development of this Austrian government and all that this Austrian government has done. Take only one of the latest editions of the FORMAT, where Austria is compared with Germany, as regards the country match in the economy: 11 : 4 for Austria. We know that in Austria there is a black and blue government, in Germany there is still a red and green government, as far as I know. So let the voters prevent it from being reversed at some point. Stay with what is described as a success model in other foreign newspapers, in newspapers to be taken seriously, such as in the “New Zurich Newspaper” or in the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”! I believe that this also needs to be enough for you to realize that everything that has happened here in the last five years cannot be so bad. If there has been a standstill, it has also been well described with the “Mikado policy” you have done: Whoever touches first has lost! And Austria has gotten enough of that, and that's good. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The fact that you obviously don't really deal with matter in depth also shows that you didn't really know about the questions about Stadium Klagenfurt. The fact is that there was a first invitation to tender in a two-stage procedure. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (on Chancellor Dr. Schüssel) He's got the paper!]] – I can also without papers, Mr Cap! – This initial invitation to tender was actually made by the Federal Government to obtain more international providers, but in the second stage of the procedure the city of Klagenfurt was led as a client. There is only a two-week opposition period. This opposition period has not been used, so it is clear that the city of Klagenfurt, if you still want to know, is a client. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Calming!]] This was also expressed clearly and clearly by the professors Aicher and Holaubek – and I believe that the very serious lawyer in this country is – in the opinion commissioned by the Federal Chancellery and by me. It is also clear that the contract law provides for a review procedure. And that with a financial dimension of €60 million such a review procedure is logically used by all those who are inferior, that is in the nature of the matter. Therefore, there is this interim order. This interim order comes from the independent administrative Senate of the country of Carinthia. ==References== May must take a decision, but this does not mean that it will take so long. The decision will not wait for a very long time. And as soon as this decision is taken, the construction in Klagenfurt will begin. That is why it is not necessary for us to think about alternatives, as you asked in your last question about the Klagenfurt Stadium, because we can actually start building in Klagenfurt after the end of this review process and the 2008 European Championship in Austria is thus secured in the locations of Vienna, Salzburg, Innsbruck and Klagenfurt.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15187	The next speaker is Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15208	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! I very much doubt that you are taking this issue very seriously. [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is more the case with you!]] This has already been shown in the morning, Mr President, when you smiled at the subject of the urgent matter. I don’t know if you smiled because of the expression “speed kills” that you used very often in earlier times, or if you smiled on the subject. Both of them tell me something, because, as we have heard today, this is a very serious issue, and this government is actually in crisis. It is not the opposite of the case as you claim. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] All the speeches, even those from the government bank, have proved this to me. I don't know, Chancellor: How to feel If you were to throw millions and billions of euros around you, I was wondering who would meet these millions and billions. Not those who would need it, Mr. Federal Chancellor! You have not talked about how you will be fighting unemployment, for example. – By the way, you have never mentioned the Social Report, which describes the years 2002 and 2003. There is nothing positive to be reported here. [[Federal Chancellor Dr. Schüssel: Oh yes, the rise in the social rate!]] A wealth report is attached to it. Perhaps you like it better when it says that 10 percent of the population have 70 percent of the wealth and 90 percent of the population have to share the remaining third. That's going to be You certainly don't like it that way – do you? I think so. But for whom does this federal government spend the money? We must ask this question, and you will have asked yourself many times. If these millions and billions of euros were to meet the right ones, Mr President, then we would have been – for a long time! – a lower rate of unemployment, then we would have long since less poverty and no more, as it is unfortunately, unfortunately to be read in the Social Report, then we would have a long-term upturn and not such a disaster as now, and we would have a long-term start. I see there loud “winter faces”, don’t see “freiling faces”. I don't see any mood of departure, I don't see any smile in the faces, I don't see anything you could offer to the population, not what it would justify that you're happy. [[Abg. Dr. Mitterlehner: Look in the mirror!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Tell me a joke, then we smile!]] You look so sad because you know what crisis you are in fact in! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Longest you know, my Ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ that your mini-mini tax gifts to the population do not make up for what you have excavated years earlier. You have increased self-retaining and introduced those where they have not yet been, you have raised taxes, you have introduced new contributions, and the money you now give back small amounts has long since come in. [[Abg. Scheibner: Which taxes have been increased?]] If we look back together, ladies and gentlemen, you, I think, will have to admit: If we take the word “reform” – unfortunately, it has already become an unword – as what it meant in earlier times, in times of non-black and blue governments, then reforms have very well fulfilled what they promised. Reforms are usually made to change and improve. But they only change without improving, and this unfortunately does not benefit a large part of the population to which reforms should actually be made. I'm just thinking about reform policy under Kreisky, Broda and Dohnal, for example: That was politics for women at the time – I emphasize that because I am a woman-sprecher – that was politics that was valued by women. [[Interlocutory note by Secretary of State Mag. Mainoni.]] You are probably not appreciating women, Mr Mainoni! Why Saying You got this in this hall? [[State Secretary Mag. Mainoni appears surprised and shakes his head.]] This was an appreciation of the life situation of women: Improving the labour market situation, improving the social position of women. – What sounds do we hear now, Mr. Mainoni? [[Abg. Scheibner: He still didn't say anything!]] Are you also of the opinion that abortion may be banned again? Are you also of the opinion, Mr Cot, that you are so eclectic about it? [[Cheerfulness of State Secretary Mag. Mainoni]] [[State Secretary Mag. Mainoni: (renewal surprising the head shaking) You must have the wrong speech!]] You may also feel that registered partnerships for gay and lesbian couples should not be right, as Mrs Miklauch has unfortunately mentioned. Do you think that these people should not come to their right? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What is “their right”?]] Then the sounds are all too familiar to me and I would have “desired” from this discussion. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Your policy, ladies and gentlemen, suffers mainly from two things: on the one hand, a huge deficit in justice – reform policy must also be fair and all parts of the population must benefit – and at least as bad is that your reforms are largely unfortunate, unfortunately ineffective. – And the responsibility for it, Federal Chancellor, is yours! They have enough helpers in the Federal Government; time does not allow me to go into all of them individually. But I can say to you at the end: This standstill, which is now in existence, still knows an increase, Mr Scheibner, and that is a step backwards. [[Abg. Scheibner: A standstill cannot increase...!]] For Austrian men and women, for most people in Austria, it is a sad, black, a lustless policy – and it is particularly negative for women. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: You are not at all lustful!]] In conclusion, I go to the level of the Federal Chancellor, who made advertising statements yesterday, and I say in the sense of all Austrian women: “If only he would stop!”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15414	The next speaker is Mrs Fuhrmann. – Voluntary time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15445	Mr. Federal Chancellor! Mr President. High house! This Parliament is not a wish concert, and I hope that so many dreams will not be fulfilled. I say one thing to you, ladies and gentlemen: I am very happy about this and I am also proud that at last a federal government is at work, which does not think until the next election date, but in addition to the future. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Reheis: When is the next election?]] We and this Federal Government are not only talking about reforms, but also about them. But if I look at your question carefully, I note that you are under the responsibility of the Minister of Education that she refuses to implement reforms and to accept your proposals. – I wonder what reform proposals are proposed You're actually talking here. Is it the last proposal that has been made again – which is already an old hat anyway – from the general school where Dr. Niederwieser asks for it, but Mr Landeshuptmann Nienssl says: In fact, should there be freedom of choice anyway? Or is it the proposal of language early promotion, where Dr. Niederweiser, in turn, says: Yes, you need a mandatory preschool year!, and Gusenbauer lets him judge that that is not necessary? Or here you mean the demand for an entrance exam at the Educational Academy, where Gusenbauer says: Yeah, we need that, and Antoni does this over the media? Or do you mean, for example, cast builders demand, you have to do something for the teacher image, but Broukal can actually just say: In any case, teachers use 40 percent of their working time by spinning intrigues, 50 percent to avert intrigues, and only 10 percent to really teach? Are these the demands you mean, or do you finally mean your old hats, where it is also about closing small and small schools? . We know that 91.47 percent of all schools would then be locked in Austria. If these are your demands, I say: Good night! – Apart from that, I would advise you to go to clause for once, because as you can see, you do not agree with any of your demands. Everyone also says about the APA, about the media something different! – Head of State Niessl even says in the last education concept, which was decided by your side that it would be an immense claim to have agreed to this concept, and Dr. Zilk, old-born mayor, says in the “Kronen-Zeitung” only more: Forward, comrades, we're taking a step back! So if these are your suggestions, if those are the points you have to offer, then that is clearly too little. This is once again an example of our standing for and acting on youth policy and policy of the future, and you are simply trying to find placards for it. [[Call the SPÖ:Applause!]] [[Demonstrative applause and bravado with the ÖVP and the liberals.]] But if you go to clause, I would also advise you to discuss once again the question of the two-thirds majority. Also there was requested from your site at the beginning: It's unconditionally gone! We want to go here as SPÖ!, you have said, and two days later conditions were already set. – So: What you're saying today doesn't apply tomorrow. And besides that, you would have been on the 9th. In December, we had the opportunity to vote in favour of a resolution tabled by the EIA, which is where we have retained freedom of education. You didn't want that! You rejected him here, didn't agree. This is the case with an old problem that we have already discussed: the credibility of Dr. Gusenbauer and the credibility of the SPÖ. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry to say: You're not credible! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ: Neither do you!]] Instead, I would ask you to discuss this: What can be criteria to measure the education system as well? – Whether this is the educational investment, whether that is the number of teachers per student, whether this is the number of students in a class, we are in the EU section everywhere! We are above the OECD section and can keep at the top of all standards, no matter what you choose. I would therefore ask you: Don't talk bad about our students and also our apprentices! They bring great results to Austria! If you look at the international rankings and you look at international competitions, you can see that especially our professional schools are to be highlighted – just recently again at a chemical olympiade – or the apprentices who have become the best in them four times worldwide. They're all in front of the curtain to ask! Our differentiated school system is sure that Austria will continue to have such low youth unemployment, and we will do everything we can to keep it low and even lower.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15532	Next speaker is Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15554	Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Mr Cap has made a number of newspaper reports to justify his question. – I also bring a newspaper report, namely: A place in the Federal Republic of Germany wants to go to Austria, it is said. A whole place would like to come to Austria! And as a reason, ladies and gentlemen, the mayor says: We have the impression that things are going faster in Austria, it's all going better. Thousands of Germans work in Austria because there is a job here, and there is none in the Federal Republic. - Quote. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In Germany, where red and green rule, there are no jobs, so the Germans come to us. – Red-green has failed, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, as long as there is a whole place from the Federal Republic of Germany to Austria, you really do not have to worry about the credit quality of the government in Austria! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] There a journalist in the “Kurier” – and I don’t think he is particularly close to us – said: In the past, the small Austria with large Kuleraugen looked up to the successful Germany. In the meantime, this has changed thoroughly. Black and blue, with many ideological struggles in the country, has brought much into motion in Austria. It also says that the red and green government of the Federal Republic of Germany has been held responsible for the spectacular decline of the once giant. – This is politics in the Federal Republic of Germany! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! The government is not lame. This shows the agenda on its own: What has been brought in by these government parties! Or also the report by Mr Bundeskanzler from the Council of Ministers. All the Ministers of Freedom, all the Secretary of State are working! How do you get the idea that this federal government is paralysed? [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Abominable!]] I don't understand you at all. Let us have our internal discussions in our bodies! Don't worry about it! Make a proper opposition policy and let us make our party policy! [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: That's not the point!]] We are not talking about our party policy, we are talking about government policy, and you have to admit that this is a good policy for Austria. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] The fact that your urgent request to the hair has been made also results from other points. For example, you complain of the reform stand. Until recently – Mr Molterer has already pointed out – you have complained that the reforms are too fast, that too many reforms are being implemented, and you have slowed down the reforms where you have only been able to do so! Even the tax reform that exempts 2.5 million people in Austria, even those that have slowed you down, and because you haven't thought of anything, you have said it's too little, then: it's too late, and then: there's no counter-financing – everything just so you can find any reasons to just don't have to agree! This is your zigzag policy or hat hot! policy, no matter how you want to call it, just because you believe you can score with it. But you won't score. Even international newspapers confirm: The SPÖ has not succeeded in formulating the criticisms correctly or promising the better government, and you have not found a clear line. Why don't you try and approve of what the government does well? Yes, there are mistakes, that is of course. But admit what is done well! As Mr Cap complained in his question that Mr Gusenbauer had not received a reply from Mr Bundeskanzler to his proposals concerning the reduction of unemployment in Austria, and I would like to say to you that the Federal Chancellor is so busy with the so-called government crisis: Probably the proposals made by Mr Gusenbauer are so weak or promise so little success that the Federal Chancellor has not yet responded. If you had such good proposals to combat unemployment, I am convinced that you would have made these proposals to your party friend Schröder in the Federal Republic of Germany, because that is what the water stands up to the neck with its five million unemployed, and it looks jealously towards Austria and what policy is being made here in order to keep unemployment low. But you're not making any suggestions, and if so, they're weak. Moreover, your proposals are mainly aimed at costing even more money. I did a lot of work on the budget discussion in December. €100 million Mr. Broukal is demanding for universities, €5 million is required by Mr. Parnigoni for 1,000 police officers, €5 million for schools, and so on, and so on! And finally, you demand a balanced budget and recommend it when the budget deficit grows. This is your constructive opposition policy?- Oh, my God! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ, with some good will you would have to admit that an internal approach has nothing to do with government work. This government is working, all liberal ministers, all ÖVP ministers are doing their job in order, and it is not a chaos, it is not the break of coalition that you are so keenly led by the coalition, but it works the government work for Austria best.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15627	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15648	Mr President. Gentlemen on the government bank! – Mr Chancellor is not here right now; he has temporarily abducted Mr Klubobmann Cap. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But he'll bring him back, don't worry!]] The question of macro-data in economic policy has been discussed more often with the Federal Chancellor here, and some of us do not want to say here that not everything is bad in Austria and can be seen quite clearly. The question is always just: because of or despite the Federal Government? – And you will not be surprised that we will then come to a second finding of often. I admit that it is tempting for the opposition to look at the increase in unemployment rates in absolute proportions. Of course, that looks bad. The Federal Chancellor tends to hold back the number of employees. But there is the question of what you would expect. I have already made the proposal – and now it is coming back – that we then agree on the unemployment rate as a measure, the unemployment rate, the ratio of these two figures in principle. That makes a certain sense to me, which is a fair comparison size. Now, however, I have to say that although the unemployment rate in Austria – no one will dispute this – is relatively low in European comparison, but if we look – and if we are able to take out perhaps the year 2000 – how the change in the unemployment rate has developed in recent years – in this measure, then we note that it has increased significantly in Austria, while the unemployment rate in other countries is even declining or at least stagnating. By the way: The apostrophic German example would show you that the unemployment rate has fallen since the change of government. But that's only a matter of concern to start a mediation attempt somewhere on which macro data we agree before we always throw everything at the head. It was Chancellor Schüssel himself who, in the course of the EU debates on the Lisbon process, also agreed to agree on a few, comprehensible indicators, otherwise each of the 17 indicators will be selected by those who fit him. That makes a lot of sense from my point of view. However, we should also consider this to be the case for employees or for the analysis of employment policy in Austria. - So much for it. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But this also applies to the debt ratio: not in absolute, but in percentages!]] – We will discuss the debt ratio tomorrow, otherwise I will not be able to comply with my 4 minutes. But I come to something else, including an economic policy issue which has already been taken as a project here, on the question of – I must say so – failure by the Styrian state government regarding economic policy there. I'll let the covenant come out once you've been helped, but I can only tell you: What has been presented there – and this is actually ongoing – this state government with the relevant ÖVP councils, whether they have resigned or have come back, is an incompetence center! I wonder why you are so euphoric about this example. The 100 million € grant commitment, where there are significant shares of the federal government: That's no fame for me! We've researched this: With 100 million funding commitments – please: in euro! – I would like to say that a catalogue of criteria is indicated, which is to be used if such large sums are already envisaged. But that's not the case. When you look at how otherwise promoters of small and medium-sized enterprises are kept short – and then 100 million for a project that was not at all secured! In the end, Mateschitz said that a maximum of 200 million were really projected, and the rest would have come from elsewhere. If you've called there, you've come to realize that no one has promised anything. And you put 100 million € in view without any criterion. That's what I'm saying: Good night. I say “Good night” as I did at the Klagenfurt stadium project. It can't stop like it was said here! No one can answer what's going on there! I'm not here to say either: Let us immediately make an uprising and bad wind as far as the EURO is concerned! We should do something in common. However, an emergency plan will be necessary then, Federal Chancellor! We can't just wait what's happening there! Because they have proved that they want to do so with intention – and “she” is not exactly recoverable in Carinthia – and with a start. It's recognizable. Mayor Scheucher, a party friend of yours, tries to be honest. However, the project may no longer be saved, because there are so many conflicting interests there and arise that the destruction drive is obviously greater than any reason. It's got something to do with blue-black! Klagenfurt is for me the synonym for what's been going on for five years. They have given the project mainly because of the fact that they wanted to do good with the head of state, Haider, under Vice-Cancer Riess-Passer. Whether that was always the best thing, is another question. However, it now turns out that there is serious suspicion of corruption in every respect, illegal party funding. In the Ministry of the Interior there is a record that a bidder is going to a member of the award commission and wants to influence the member, saying: We have already carried so many euros to Carinthia! – Yes, but in the blue sphere of influence! – It’s crazy if we don’t get the project now! That's the condition! What else do you want to say? That's what I'm saying again: Good night! It would be better if we were to experience a day when this Federal Government might no longer be in office. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] With regard to the stadium project – so that we can conclude with something positive – I tell you: Here you have our hand for an emergency plan. Some members of the government know that. And there's no longer to watch! That's true! Otherwise it will be good if you no longer honor us on this government bank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15728	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15749	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Mr. State Secretary! In times when economic policy is dominated by the idea of neoliberalism, social injustice is not only tolerated, but even partially welcomed – what Mr Scheuch calls – a strong representation of interest is more necessary than ever to prevent the worst growth of such a policy. – Fritz Dinkhauser, President of the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol, in the new report of the Tyrolean Chamber of Workers. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Are you at the ÖVP because you are wearing a black sweater?]] I believe that this division, presented by an ÖVP employee's representative, leaves nothing to be desired in terms of the economic policy of the Federal Government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In this way, one should almost be glad that a standstill has also taken place in this Federal Government in economic policy and that nothing goes and in the end, as one could see from the budget speech of the Minister of Finance, only the “principle of hope” governs. But the objective economic conditions suggest other conclusions. The recent Wifo's monthly report shows it clearly once again. The dynamics of the Austrian economy has decreased significantly, says Wifo. The business surveys are also much more pessimistic than in December 2004. Christian Ortner – he is not really suspected of being a founding member of the Socialist International – has a significant record in the membership journal of the Industrial Union: You probably don't have to be too big a pessimist to assume that after the 2001 stock market bubble, the optimism bubble of 2004 has also been placed. - So much for the budget speech. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] There is no need to wonder if these statements are reflected in consumer confidence and domestic demand. Consumer confidence has also clearly weakened according to Wifo. The inflation rate has been the highest since May 2001. If you calculate the seasonal goods, it is even more than 3 percent. And what does the Federal Government do about it? – Answer: Nothing. Nothing against the dramatic rise in unemployment to over 361,000 in February 2005. Nothing against the increase in debt from 1999 to 2004 by 15 percent or more than € 18 billion. Because it is always said that one has to look at the relative figures: With the relative numbers! The non-debt financial debt of the federal government rose from 57.37 percent in 2000 to 57.81 percent of GDP in 2006. Here are the relative figures, which also show the same results. [[Abg. May. Molterer: And the total debt?]] – The total debt is in absolute numbers as high as never before, Mr. Molterer! [[Abg. May. Molterer: Sinkt!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Mag. Molterer and Dr. Sonnberger.]] You know the numbers best. Read the financial debt report, then you may not laugh anymore! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Stay on the same topic: Quota!]] Mr Klubobmann, what kind of subject I'm going to cut out of here, you leave it to me! I would suggest the reading of the financial debt report to you! [[Abg. May. Molterer: The numbers have a different language!]] [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] The Federal Government is now also producing deficits, of which Rudi Edlinger, whom you would always have liked to be abominable at this point, would not even have dreamed of in his worst nightmares. And the Federal Government is not doing anything again! Internal demand has already been mentioned. These additional holidays, the additional purchases, the additional cars exist only in the very expensive television commercials, but not in reality! That's enough for the so-called Gloggnitz effect. Mr Bundeskanzler, you have addressed the ÖIAG! - Right, the ÖIAG. [[Abg. Dr. Sonnberger: A success story!]] Another quote from a suspicious mouth: It is also becoming increasingly clear that numerous privatisations in recent months and years have been misused into a purely money-raising operation for the empty government budget. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Where? Where?]] – From the report of the Chamber of Workers of Tyrol, went on three days ago. [[Ironic hustle and bustle of Deputies Mag. Molterer and Dr. Sonnberger.]] - I don't know. Is Mr Dinkhauser still a member of the ÖVP or not? Perhaps you should also make a summit or a round table in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] In the course of economic growth, we are now slipping from 6th place to 12th place. But the Federal Government is doing a lot for a certain clientele, for example in the field of corporate tax, which will actually help the few large companies. If you put this into the language of housing, then your economic policy would run under the motto: Villas for few instead of apartments for all. On the other hand, we want a fair share of prosperity for all instead of tax gifts for few. Here too, we differ in principle, but precisely in this is the great difference that thank God! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch]] We from SPÖ have principles for people in this country! You have chaos, downtime and the hope of the Christian child in economic policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15921	Mr Lopatka is next speaker. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e15944	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! It was a premise on the 2nd. April. Getting Now You're asking yourself: Why on the 2nd? April? - There's the 200. Hans Christian Andersen's birthday was a famous and famous fairy taler. [[Abg. Bures: Are you talking about the Federal Chancellor?]] What you have offered here, Mr Hoscher, only has place in the fairy tale world, but otherwise really nowhere. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Today's urgent question was already weak, but I was really surprised that you were letting down so much in the debate. There was nothing there at all! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Do you have anything other than polemics to say?]] Mr Cap has been waiting for a call from a Carinthian. He probably prepared the speech for Villacher Fasching, as he would have found more Carinthia. Mr Cap, the carnival time is long over, we have already brought the fasting time behind us. It was already the resurrection, Easter was already! But what you're saying really only fits into the car week, namely from the substance! The food you offered here was extremely cold, but with you it was worth at least some entertainment. [[Abg. Eder: Not with you!]] This has already fallen away when I have heard the other speakers. Long speech, short sense: It's always one and the same. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: “Quick sense”!]] We thank you for your urgent requests, because you give the Chancellor and us the opportunity to make clear the difference we stand for and what you stand for each time. There is the group which stands for work, for seriosity! [[in the direction of ÖVP pointing]] [[Abg. Eder: Please go!]] In your case, there is still some entertainment value at the top, but otherwise: Everything just bad, make negative, see negative. Where's something positive? - You said you didn't see any spring. There's no spring with you, there's the deepest winter! [[Abg. Riepl: In your speech, even the President laughs!]] Nothing's broken up yet, nothing springy! It is, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Call the SPÖ:Mother applause!]] “There’s nothing going on,” write here. – You’re really right! Nothing's going on with this SPÖ. Think of today's educational debate! Once your chairman thinks that the two-thirds majority must leave unconditionally. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: He stayed here!]] Then he begins to fear himself, and is again for the two-thirds majority. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] - I have an unwarranted witness. He's sitting here in the first row, the head of the Green Group. Yesterday I heard very clearly what he thought of SPÖ as regards the two-thirds majority, that is, what we think of the ÖVP of this form of policy: relatively little. We'll have the budget debate tomorrow. I can tell you how it will be without being a prophet, the only question is where you're back at the zigzag. [[Abg. May. Worm: As a third party to the opposition!]] Once, your chairman has called for the zero deficit to be recorded in the Constitution. Another time he says: Of course, public money must be taken into consideration in order to set up initiatives. – But, in reality, he meant nothing but altsocialist debt policy, which brought us back there, which we thanked with this federal government, namely billions of debts. Ladies and gentlemen! Against this background, Klubobmann Cap now criticizes the alleged standstill of government work. I really have to ask: Which country are you thinking about? - But certainly not in Austria. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Maximum on Vienna!]] There is no commentator to be taken seriously, who would say that. You have quoted so many newspapers, but you will not find a quote that confirms this federal government's standstill! You won't find anyone! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: All!]] - Probably you're being confused. You'll probably have read German newspapers. I assume that you are occasionally reading “Time” and that is exactly what you said today, namely: [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I’m reading “Currently”!]] “Red-Green doesn’t rule anymore!” – That's the big difference to black and blue! It's ruling here! No more government in Germany! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: Have you read today’s “Krone” title?]] But this is the form of government, ladies and gentlemen, which must be held responsible for social democrats. [[Abg. May. Worm: We are in Austria!]] The centre of ideas and courage, ladies and gentlemen, is not located in Vienna, such a center is Berlin. That is not what I say, but that is clearly to be read in the “time. ” That is why I say to you: That's right, we're in Austria! And this Austria is a success story! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: War! War!]] Economic and social, political and cultural it is a success story, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'm not quoting a German newspaper now. In this case it is the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”, a Swiss newspaper: Austria's success has a name. [[Abg. Eder: We already had that!]] “Austria’s success is called Wolfgang Schüssel”. – Now I am again at a German organ, at the “world”, ladies and gentlemen. That's what's so hard for you to take note of. Because yesterday the football match was: A country match between Austria and Germany we have once won almost 3 : 2. [[The speaker holds a copy of the magazine “FORMAT” on whose cover page “Austria versus Germany 11 : 4” can be read.]] Here it went 11 : 4 out! That makes us sure! We would also have a similar result if we compare your work performance with ours, your ideas and your suggestions for the future of the country with ours. The result would be similar to that of this 11 : 4 between Austria and Germany. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Too zero!]] This is the crucial question – and I would like to conclude by giving you the following: Who is to rule Austria? [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Austria is not being ruled!]] And who should have the responsibility in the federal states, even in Styria, which has been above average successful in recent years? [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] Don't talk bad about the Styria! Look If you look at labour market data, look at what has already happened in the infrastructure and what has been done on rail! [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] They have never managed to bring the Semmering Base Tunnel to the rail, to bring the Koralm Railway to rail. That was possible only now. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] That's what your ministers did, and last but not least, one of the competent ministers, was not done! Ladies and gentlemen! Should those who take a firm stand for the country and the people's party, or those who really are always in the rush, in the nostrils and in the criticism? - You know my answer. The voter's answer will get to know you on election day 2006 and not earlier, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16286	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16309	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Ladies and gentlemen here in the House! [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Now the self-hypnosis continues!]] Mr Darabos has stood out here and has been madly excited that these topics, which are being dealt with here, are called "Mickey-Mouse-Themes". That was an original quote. Mr Darabos, this quote comes from your clubman, namely Dr Josef Cap. He said it was about "Mickey-Mouse-Themen". [[Abg. Dr. Cap: I quoted the Federal Chancellor!]] Please, complain at the club meeting, but leave us here with party-internal disputes. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Mr Oellinger! You say you hear and watch all day on TV and You have to read the paper all day that we're so bad. I have to tell you, you can work something too! You can do anything else. You don't have to read and watch newspaper all day, then you won't be confronted with the fact that the media are discussing a major crisis within the FPÖ. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: A “newly spoken crisis”!]] I have to say that's really my heart. It may be that, in the present situation, the Freedom Party looks a bit disintegrated in the outside effect. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] It may also be that one or the other is already happy. But one thing you can be sure whether with or without an attacked voice: Don't spread the hair of the bear too early! This FPÖ, this movement, this third camp will ensure that you still have years to learn opposition policy. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Dr. Cap, I looked at the clock today: 11.5 minutes of your speech has not bothered any socialist MP! [[Call to the SPÖ: There are no socialist delegates either!]] 11.5 minutes, no social-democratic parliamentarian has clap. 11.5 minutes it took until anyone in these left rows became minter and noticed: That's what Mr Klubobmann is talking about. And why didn't anyone complain? [[Abg. Reheis: Belongs to it!]] - I don't know exactly. Only one thing I know very well: It was fascinating what you said. You quoted Jörg Haider at the last emergency. You quoted Andreas Mölzer at this emergency. Apparently, there are relatively few socialist quotations that have place here, which are of interest here. Dr. Cap, you've done something today... – If you're waving with your blue tie, this shows the seriousness you have. [[Abg. Dr. Cap points to his blue tie.]] [[Abg. Dr. Cap: (on the orange tie of Abg. Dr. Wittmann clearly) Blue or orange?- Oh, my God!]] That only shows the seriousness you bring. Mr. Dr. Cap, you have done something today – and you should be careful for at least a minute – which I really point out. I am well aware of the fact that I also have to give a lot of money, but you turned out here today and have said that your own group of countries of Carinthia, the Carinthian group of the Social Democratic Party of Austria, accused of party funding in relation to stadium construction, have both government parties in Carinthia – get [[Abg. Reheis: No one said that!]] You took the Stenographical Protocol – apparently money. Dr. Cap said that, read the Minutes! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] That you don't know that only shows that nobody has been careful, and that's why you didn't clap 11 and a half minutes. And by your statement, Mr Cap, you can see that you can go too far in the self-representation, because nest pollution should be avoided! I have to say honestly, as a libertiesman, I'm behind the SPÖ of Carinthia. The Freedom Party in Carinthia and also the Social Democratic Party in Carinthia did not deserve to be protected from one's own nest here. [[Abg. Mandak: Are you already preparing your jump?]] - No, I'm not preparing a jump. Don't worry. I know very well which side I'm on. I am convinced, Mrs Mandak, that at the end of the day you will see very clearly the side of this liberal parliamentary club, on which side this liberal parliamentary club works, and how this liberal parliamentary club has moved for this country in recent years far more than the reds, the reds and whatever the colours of government. [[Abg. Mandak: Whether he works at all!]] [[Abg. Riepl: Plauderbag!]] [[Abg. Dr. Wittmann: Orange!]] That your greatest concern is what color will be at the end shows once again with what intellect and with what enthusiasm you participate in the discussion! You can really believe that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] That shows what you're interested in in the final effect. Whether orange or blue or red, that's your debate. That's what you're interested in. We're worried about others! We have other problems, very many problems! [[Ironic cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens]] And we solve these problems. As long as you discuss colors in the final effect, as long as you have nothing better to do in the final effect than permanently criticise your own country, even your own party, and do bad, ladies and gentlemen, as long as my clubman is allowed to maintain the right to learn and to learn opposition work as long as possible.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16551	Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16572	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that was really nice of my colleague Scheuch. That was the attempt to produce your own image, Mr Deputies, about which you yourself must laugh, because you have not succeeded in presenting this single Freedom Party crediblely. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: No, because I am a friendly person!]] That was a really nice attempt. [[Abg. Scheibner: Be happy if you can make someone laugh!]] Yes, it was exhilarating and relaxing, you really have to say that. What is less exhilarating is that the government – as you have now tried, but with much more effect – creates its own image, creating its own world. – They now obviously live in their own world, which has little to do with reality, and you invest quite a lot of money in marketing to sell this picture as reality. For example, fine dust that we have discussed today. – There is a fine dust pollution that is undisputed, which even you do not dispute by the government. The limit values have been exceeded several times, there are serious health damage due to the fine dust load. But when it comes to doing something about it, you say you're not responsible, and just explain what's going on anyway. That doesn't help anyone. In your world everything is fine, you've done something, you've invested something, you've fulfilled a law. But that doesn't help. The children and the old people continue to get sick, that's reality. It does not help if you take action, but it does not take measures that can combat this health threat. Second example, also discussed today: PISA. – Almost a quarter of the students have so great read deficits and difficulties in understanding that they are denied another educational career de facto. This is the result of the PISA study. Now the Federal Minister says: There has been a lot of happening, as measures have been taken, so and so many millions have been invested in order to improve something. The fact is: It doesn't work! The measures you have taken since the last PISA study was done are not working. It may be very “ nice” in your world that you have taken any action, that does not help the students and the parents if the result gets worse and not better. The third example, unemployment, is really a much quoted one, but becomes nothing less tragic. . You, Mr Bundeskanzler, have today tried again the figures in the field of unemployment. That's one thing, too. In your world, however, the employment rate, as you always say, is increasing, on the other hand, one must also see that unemployment is increasing, both for young people and de facto in conversion to full-time equivalents, which you refuse, from a marketing strategy, because then you can no longer say that the employment rate is rising. That is, you try to maintain this image of your own world with all force, or with all power, and completely ignore the reality of people. For these people, however, it is totally irrelevant which picture you draw here, if they have less and less in their pocket, have less opportunity for education and also have fewer opportunities in the job market. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] The fourth point is the question of tax reform – again today – the “greatest tax reform of all time”, which helps everyone. – In your picture, in your marketing image, this is the “greatest tax reform of all time” because a lot of money is implemented. In the reality of the people, the Austrians and Austrians, it looks like a very large part of the people are not at all benefiting from the tax reform, but – on the contrary! – through various accompanying measures has less than before “the greatest tax reform of all time”. Your world: Marketing, the real world: less in the bag. The same applies to the ability of the government to act. – Your world: It's all right, it's enough for us to speak nicely, just as Mr Scheuch has just tried. In the reality of people, it looks like they're just tired of what's produced here in chaos and what's not working in all the other areas I've mentioned. I believe you, Federal Chancellor, that your world is all right, but for many people in Austria it has not been for a long time. I mean, sometime you could face up to reality again!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16628	The next speaker is Mrs Bures. 5 minutes' welcome time, remaining speaking time of your group: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16651	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Federal Government! My colleague, Mr Sburny, has been dealing with the denial of this federal government, and I would like to say that the statements made by the Secretary-Generals of the government have also been surprising, which have made it clear that they are somehow suffering from limited perceptiveness. It is already amusing when Mr. Scheuch speaks of a “a bit broken party” or Mr. Lopatka – I am glad that you are entering the hall again – sees a Semmering tunnel, although unfortunately there is no tunnel at all. This shows all too clearly the refusal of reality and the limited perceptiveness of this federal government. What has been shown in today's debate is: There is a veritable crisis within the FPÖ, and this crisis within the FPÖ has become an ever-increasing problem of this government. We really have a serious government crisis! This, ladies and gentlemen, says not only the opposition, but also the population, for the most part. According to gross “Report”, 75 percent of Austrians say that government work is massively affected by this crisis. Three out of four Austrians say: This Federal Chancellor is in a deep crisis! – I share the assessment of these people, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Wolfgang Schüssel is in crisis with his wish coalition. He has founded this black and blue coalition a second time against the will of the majority of the population, unfortunately this coalition has promised the country a second time. The majority of the population has warned of this constellation, of this project; Wolfgang Schüssel was warned. Everyone warned him: It hasn't worked, it doesn't work again! Why does this Federal Chancellor do that? – I feel more and more that this may have something to do with personal convenience. Stand still, don't do anything, it's convenient. The government partner FPÖ in the crisis – the ÖVP power games can go undistorted, the FPÖ is no longer able to bring anything into this government. That is, personal convenience and power-political calculation of Wolfgang Schüssel lead this country to the crisis unfortunately! That's the accusation I've got to make you. I am therefore doing it because it is perhaps a convenient political situation for you on the government bank, but for thousands of people it is not a convenient political situation. First point: Development of unemployment. – Dear ladies and gentlemen! These government parties are responsible for the fact that from the year 2000 to the present we have seen an increase of 30 percent in unemployment. 30 percent more people in Austria who do not find a job! These are about 81,264 more people who are unemployed during your government responsibility. Mr. Bundeskanzler, your balance sheet regarding unemployment is that you, as chancellor of record unemployment, will go into history. Unfortunately, their inactivity must be carried out on the back of these people. We have achieved record unemployment and there is a massive downturn in employment and growth policy. You have to answer that, Federal Chancellor! A second example: health policy. – The only thing that exists is massive increases; we have talked about it. Four times an increase in the prescription fee, an increase in health insurance contributions, restrictions on healing, day money in hospital. The list could be continued endlessly, how much you really ask sick people to check out the cash register. You are only doing if you have increased, not a single positive structural measure. Unexplained financing gaps in the health system – and what are you doing? Standstill in health policy, not a single positive structural measure. In the field of education, we will be able to discuss this further. Even after the PISA crash, despite the PISA drop-off in education policy, despite the offer from social democracy, it would be so important for the future of the young – a standstill in education policy! Federal Chancellor! You have to make the accusation that you are usually deaf and dumb that you are usually silent. In the meantime you can enjoy yourself from time to time. You have already mentioned Mickey-Mouse problems related to unemployment in the “format”, you have already talked about beauty mistakes in connection with youth unemployment. Yesterday, according to the Council of Ministers, you gave ad announcements of your own, free of charge according to the motto – that would have been missing –: Austrians don't run, choose me! You won't choose you anymore! This government has rightly lost confidence, this government rightly has no majority in that country. 67 percent wish for a new social government. – Mr Bundeskanzler, open the way for a better policy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16704	The next speaker is Mr Walch. 4 minutes remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16725	Mr President. Mr. Federal Chancellor! Appreciate members of the government! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Cap, Mr Gusenbauer has already gotten away from you, right? I need to help you get a little bit on your feet again, we need to research conscience again. It is true that there is discussion in the FPÖ – but internal affairs have nothing to do with government work at all! How's the SPÖ, I wonder if I'm reading the newspapers like that? Häupl, Vrannitzky, climate, an obmann down in Carinthia? First they stand behind casters, then they stand next to Gusenbauer and soon they will leave him behind. That's how it goes with you in the SPÖ! I don't need to think about the greens any more. If you're sitting in the glasshouse, don't throw stones. Besides, you really have to ask yourself what concepts do you have? I constantly hear that this government should say goodbye to the government to keep it ruling. I'm telling you, the Austrians don't want government and no German chancellors like in the last 30 years. Nearly 100 000 workers in the state have lost their jobs. You left 174 billion € in debt. You have to apologize to the people for this! 7 billion € must be applied for interest. Today, the “death day ” of the “consumer” lasts for the tenth time. Your colleagues are responsible. [[towards SPÖ]] Imagine here and apologise for the fact that so many family fathers have lost their jobs and are in distress! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Tell the truth how some have enriched themselves! I know what happened to the “consumer” of what the people concerned said. For nothing have you been chosen. You didn't have anything to do with economic policy, you really have to say that. You left us broken health insurance, you left us broken pension insurance, you left a privilege stand from A to Z. We would have to rule for 15 years to finally bring out the party headquarters from certain social security institutions and much more. [[Abg. May. Molterer: We also have a plan!]] We have concepts such as workers' policies, such as economic policies, such as investment. Look at what this government is doing! Despite the difficult situation across Europe, despite the difficult unemployment situation – every unemployed person is too much! – we rely on investment, forward-looking. The Ministry of Infrastructure is investing €30 billion by the year 2010. As Mühlviertler Member of Parliament, I must say that I am proud that yesterday it was decided to make the money available for the expansion of the Summerauer Railway at last once. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Other example: the new track of the S10 in the Mühlviertel. Social Democratics in the Upper Austrian Land Day and many others also said first: No, neither there nor there! We've been through it with our infrastructure minister. The money is available to realize the project! To the Greens: Hopefully, Rudi Anschober in Upper Austria does not try to prevent this. I know you from the greens like to ride the bike, but the millers have to be on time at their place of work and therefore want to drive by car. You can ride the bike or walk on foot. In conclusion: It looks very good in Austria with FPÖ and ÖVP in the government. Don't keep making things worse than it is! I am looking for you to finally read the budget proposal, then think and expect – then you know what it looks like!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16780	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. 4 minutes remaining speaking time of the Group of the European People's Party. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16801	Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Mr President. The statements of the representatives of the government parties have already been made to me a little succinctly. There Lopatka talks about the coral tunnel, explains to us who Andersen is and when he was born. From bowl I don't hear do, re, mi, fa, so, but learn that he has the voice of the baritone. I like Baritone, also tenors and basses, but it depends on whether you sing properly. Mrs. Gehrer has spoken about the truth, the beauty and the good, and the bowl has taken this up. I also like the beautiful and the good, but I would like to ask you the question: What's true about that? Who, if not you, has claimed that your government partner, the Freedom Party, is a reliable, solid and competent partner, and who then has made early elections and claimed the same? - That's you! [[Abg. Scheibner: That's right!]] Who has wagered expensive French wines on the stock of your first government? – That was Khol, and he lost. Of course he has the means to bet again, but he will lose again! It can't be. Lopatka makes almost an affidavit that is not elected before 2006. That would be good and beautiful, but not true – or vice versa, depending on which party or group you sit in. Your statements are so relative. If we have to watch, relatively faint, which sadomasochistic transformation exercises the Freedom Party performs, then, I have to say, the associated lust gain is only accessible to a small part of the population, and that should not be. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: You already have strange thoughts, Mr. Cot!]] I come to the truth again. Chancellor Schüssel said that the cash registers had now been sustained by the financial package and the financial compensation. € 300 million has been shifted; 150 million for countries to cover their shortages in the stationary supply sector, no, do not cover them in order to reduce them. The cash registers remain slightly less than €150 million. You know, their need for cover is already at €300 million this year alone. – Not a trace of sustainability! Then juggle with the terms “self - retention ” and“ increase of contributions. ” You can discuss everything, but you know that self retention only affects the sick, and they are already the “lacked ones” in life anyway. On the other hand, an increase in the fees – I am not getting closer to it now – would, of course, meet everyone, not just the sick. This makes a certain difference in social terms, as you can certainly understand as a Christian democratic. You say the unis would only be a pity to you and say they needed 100 million euros immediately, and more than 600 million euros to register as a need for renovation. I don't think they're doing that out of jux and tolling and the most beautiful game of rectors is being traded to annoy you. Something's wrong. They must also register that, as measured by GDP, the share of the university budgets in Europe is not outstanding, but is around 1.1 percent of GDP, while the OECD average is 1.3 or 1.4 percent. These are differences. You want to double the academics' rates and sing that out in a preacher's tone of well-being, and then universities in the emergency program – not you! – Consider entry restrictions? - It's getting more and more scurrid! How to double the academic rate with entry restrictions? The number of students is rising, you say, while you know that the number from the last winter semester has not even reached the status of 1999. These are things that are true. Sing quietly in the baritone, I like that, but please a little bit with true text! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16860	Mr Greenewald! It was Burgenland red wine, not French. [[Abg. Sburny: Will be at least so expensive!]] [[State Secretary Mag. Schweitzer: Cheaper, but better!]] Mr Gaßner has spoken on an actual amendment. You know the Rules of Procedure, Mr Deputies. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16909	Mr President. I refer to Mr Walch's statements. He meant he was a mill four-man. I'll put it right: There is no FPÖ mandate in the Mühlviertel.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16957	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. [[17:51:11]] The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e16978	I will resume the negotiations on points 2 and 3 of the agenda. I call Mrs Felzmann. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17002	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Minister of State and Secretary of State! Ladies and gentlemen! Many thanks to the SPÖ for the great opportunity you have given us today to present the good, reformable work of our federal government. Thank you very much at the SPÖ! In the same way, we go into the debate on education, where we are on a reform course, which has not been hidden from all of you. I think we should take this educational debate unafraidly, because this issue is far too important for our whole country. Of course, we need to distinguish between structural changes in school life, which are certainly not to be created from today to tomorrow, and that freedom in education policy, which is necessary to respond to current and future changes of society. With the abolition of the two-thirds majority, we certainly do not call into question the fundamental pillars of our education system, such as school money. We do not, of course, question the freedom of education, which was also enshrined in the international treaties – and we have heard about it in great detail today by Mr Bundeskanzler. We are also concerned about the questions raised in the concordat. This is not a matter at all for us. We also do not call into question a differentiated range of schools, but we are facing the long-standing changes in education policy that have been prevented by you, the SPÖ, too, for a very long time. With the help of this legal change, we will then implement the school package. In the short term, we are on the one hand creating the introduction of the five-day week, which is desired by at least 87 percent of parents, but on the other hand also the change in the name of special school in “förderschule”. We create the opportunity for schools to bear their priority on behalf. And we are creating the change from “life training” to “moving and sport”. Ladies and gentlemen! If Mr. Dr. Gusenbauer thinks that this is only cosmetics, I ask why the SPÖ has so far prevented these cosmetics. We will also ensure the standards for professional maturity testing. In addition, we will implement those proposals that we have developed with the Future Commission in months of discussion with parents, teachers, and, of course, the child has always been at the centre of us. Each child is unique, an individual with all its strengths and weaknesses. And that's exactly what our education policy is all about. We want to call on the strong, to promote the weak, to support the boys in their reading behavior, to ensure language early education, and above all we want to combine the scientific subjects with imagination and creativity. In this context, I very much welcome the fact that our Mrs. Federal Minister has set up a further working group with Professor Taschner, who may well know many of you through the very successful “math.space” in MuseumsQuartier, where mathematics and the natural sciences as a whole are taught through new educational ways. I think mathematics, physics, chemistry as the basics of technology are very important, and it is important that our children learn very well that they want natural sciences, because they are our technicians of tomorrow. We, on the part of the EIA, stand for security, for stability in the fundamental issues and also for the necessary flexibility and creativity when it comes to our young people and the future of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17064	Mr Rada is now speaking. 2 minutes welcome. – You are speaking, Mr Deputies.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17085	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Dear ladies and gentlemen! My speaking time is too short to respond to statements made by my previous speaker, Rossmann and Amon, but one thing has to be said: Mrs Rossmann, I would like to know where the money is parked for a lot of funding! But perhaps we can continue to discuss this in the course of the budget debate, perhaps even tomorrow. One of what was discussed today: I think everyone wants quality access, quality for the Austrian school. There is no one, even in this high house, who does not see quality for the school, for our students as the highest goal. The question is: How is access to quality? Do I simply create new curriculums by means of a regulation, as an alternative still new standards, but at the same time do with other ways of making the budget so scarce that it cannot be implemented? . I do not want to continue to deal with this today, since it did not go out in the course of my speaking time anyway. On freedom of education: I really want to know clearly, clearly and clearly – this is also addressed to you, Mrs Federal Minister: What is it like in the field of secondary education? Is the freedom of education for all public schools, HTLs and so on guaranteed? In fact, there are a number of considerations and broadcasts: Federal Chancellor Schüssel is thinking about own funds. Khole: School fees and tuition fees are reasonable to parents. Amon questions free access, and so on. These are questions which the Social Democrats, the teachers and the The parents are deeply concerned. A clear answer is therefore requested, Mrs. Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17124	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Dr. Brader. 3 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17146	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Mr Rada, I think you can be calm: The freedom of schooling remains. That's a clear thing, you can take me by the word. In your contribution to the debate, Mrs Lapp, you claimed that in Lower Austria, the parents of children with special educational needs must run around an integration site. – That’s just and completely wrong! The fact that you have been silent is that parents of affected Viennese children want to see their children in the Lower Austrian surrounding area, because there the integration models work much better. This is a fact, and you should take note of that. Mrs Rossmann, I too would like to say something – Mr Rossmann is not in the hall – unfortunately: They said that the teacher union should not be involved in the school reform process. I think that is wrong, the teacher union is just as much a school partner as everyone else and, in their importance, very important. [[Call the ÖVP: So it is!]] The School Reform Commission has now drawn up a large number of proposals which have already been implemented or are being planned. On the basis of the short time I have just spoken, I would like to refer to a proposal. I believe that the development of early language support is very, very important, because the language is the condition for a successful participation in the school education process. Early language promotion must therefore be aimed at bringing all children to a level with regard to the knowledge of the German language so that they can in principle come along in teaching. That's a big challenge, I'm already aware of it. It therefore needs a very early diagnosis. However, I would like to say that the first diagnosis that the detection of a speech development disorder must not stand alone, but that one must also try to erode its cause. Support programmes – you know from practice – in which the cause of this disorder will not be addressed will not be successful. However, since we know – this is an open question that remains – that not all parents want to take note of or can take into account delays in development, we must of course consider what happens to those who do not use the funding programmes. . I believe that we will have enough discussion in the teaching committee, because this open question certainly needs urgent clarification. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] I would also like to mention that it is not only about early language promotion, but also about early reading promotion. I believe that this is about information and that many parents simply do not know what early language promotion means and how they can help their child so that certain suggestions are necessary. It's clear: If a house does not speak, does not communicate, and is not read, how should linguistic or reading skills arise? I believe that there is a need for re-examination at all levels. I would also be very connected if the public-law medium ORF were to comply with its obligation to provide information. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! We still have a lot of work to do in connection with the results of the School Reform Commission, and I hope that a successful discussion will also be held in the Teaching Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17198	Next item is the report by Mr Faul. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17220	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, I would like to comment on two things that you have mentioned here. First of all, on the subject of reform. I believe that you are moving in an insider circle in your ministry, so to speak, and that reforms are being praised. Especially in compulsory school, where you, Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer, made “reforms” – under quotation marks – the teachers, but ultimately also the students concerned, felt these “reforms” as not as positive as you are trying to present it here. Second, Mrs. Minister: They have accused us of being the party whose representatives are in “steps”. – To this end, Mrs Federal Minister: Since I am with you in the teaching committee – and I have listened to your comments again today – I can say that your sentences are all almost identical and that you, Mrs Gehrer, are in no way willing to reform. You, Mrs. Federal Minister, have told us again today that everything is all right, that in reality the countries have the responsibility that the countries do not run a savings course, and so on. – You, Mrs Minister, always tell us about measures, such as those intended to increase the support of students. They are constantly talking about the quality offensive, the promotion of talent, the raising of education standards and so on. But, Mrs. Minister, we have never found any funds for this. For example, early language promotion is quite remarkable. – Mrs Minister, as well as you, we also confess to it, only we oppose that you want to settle it where you always live, namely at the congregations, in the kindergartens, carried out by our kindergartens and financed with the money of the communities. Your statement, Mrs. Minister, also makes us very proud that parents are involved in the issue of language early promotion. – I do not think that means anything but that you want parents to pay for it. This index, Mrs. Federal Minister, as well as statements by your colleagues, especially a statement by Mr. Wirtschaftskammer President, has confirmed that we want to know constitutionally and firmly the problem of school money – in association with many stakeholders: with school, with educational institutions, with the family and with the churches.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17280	As the next speaker, Mrs Schiesermair is speaking. Your preferred speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17301	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Education is the most important basis for the future of a child. That's why the child's well-being should always be the focus. In my opinion, the general school does not take into account the various talents and inclinations of the children. Today, we have already heard the demand of the SP party chairman Gusenbauer that school education must be available to every child, to every youth, and that the origin – which he places on it – must not play a role. This means that every child should be provided with the best possible training depending on his or her abilities. This, however, is contrary to the general school of cast builders, because there are not only differences of origin among students, but also countless profiles of strength. I would like to tell you this on the basis of my personal example. I have four children. The elder, Anna, is very talented; she attended the lower level of a humanist gymnasium. My son Paul, in turn, is interested in science and mathematically gifted, and he attended the lower level of a school with the topic of computer science. Klara, our musicus, attends the main music school with seven hours of music per week. And finally, Lukas has other strengths – he still attends the folk school – and we will see how we can promote him. It is thanks to our education system that our children can attend those schools in which their strengths are promoted. It was very interesting today, as Dr. Gusenbauer responded when it came to religious teaching as well as to the concordat, because the SP party president behaved very quietly; I have observed this closely. Mr Brosz has betrayed a number of things – the Greens have applauded them very much – when he thought it was about the exemption of religious teaching from the time of popular school, as I understood at least. Mr Brosz also asked the question of how a priest could tell the people's students something about the different world religions. It is particularly important to me that in our schools it is also about the placement of social competences – and this is my belief in religious teaching. We are a Christian society, and I believe that any decision is based on a value that must already be placed in childhood and in the context of religious teaching. That is why every child should be given the basis for this. On many points of the reform dialogue – and we have already heard this today – I would like to conclude by saying that long before the PISA study has caused great excitement, our Minister of Education Gehrer has actively worked on very good measures, on measures that have been largely implemented – and will certainly continue to work. – Thank you, Mrs Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17351	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17374	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! I have listened very carefully to the comments made by the EIAs. [[Call the ÖVP:Bravo!]] And here, I have to say, something got scared when it came to the reform dialogue in the field of education. I would remind you, for example, that Mrs Brinek meant: We agree, and then we enter the dialogue! Mr Grossruck, on the other hand, said: Well, with this whole school, with this whole day school, there's nothing to do with us! [[Abg. Grossruck: I've got different!]] To this end: This is not a reform dialogue, but there is a word from the military: Command expenditure!, according to the motto: Say yes – and it's out! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Großruck: We say what we don't want! That's what we're saying!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Almost every ÖVP member/every ÖVP member has out here indicated: School money, no! – Mr Grossruck, once again to your remarks: [[Abg. Großruck: We say what we don't want!]] You turned yourself out here, too, and you said, School money is not in question at all! I have a question to ask you, colleague Großruck. The urban HTL Grieskirchen is still being run as a private school. [[Abg. Großruck: This is a private school!]] In any case, school fees are required there. And you, colleague Grossruck, are mayors there. Why you ask school money there, I'm wondering. [[Abg. Großruck: Decided unanimously!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Dear Mrs. Federal Minister – unfortunately, 2 minutes of speech are too short –: From the reform dialogue there are two main approaches, once the early language support and the discussion about afternoon care: whether it be in day-to-day schools, whether it's just care. Mrs Bundesminister, you have obviously forgotten to talk to the communities during this discussion. The communities are your partner, only you, Mrs Federal Minister, must tell the municipalities how all this is to be financed. With parental contributions – that is what I tell you, Mrs Minister – it certainly is not possible! There are plenty of examples – I could mention many here – where parents can no longer make contributions to the school because, thanks to this government, income is constantly falling and, thanks to this government, the communities no longer have money to finance high-quality offers.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17484	The next item is Mrs Fuhrmann's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17505	Thank you, Mrs. Minister! Madam President. High house! Pretty slowly I really can't hear these plattites anymore. One is talking about having a willingness to reform or not. The SPÖ claims that it has this willingness to reform, but still pursues a concept of ancient hats. I wonder, What else needs to happen in order to analyze results to find out that these Ural concepts do not work? If you look at the deep results of PISA, you can see quite clearly that in Vienna – where the differentiated school system does not play such a large role, where individualization does not play a major role and where differentiation is put in the background by SPÖ on the basis of party political and party-tactic reasons – to the AHS, to the BMS, but also to the profession. In comparison to other capitals, the Vienna schools and the Vienna participants cut off worse than others: minus 35 points in the AHS area, even minus 52 points in the BMS area and minus 66 points in the vocational school sector. What else needs to happen so that you finally realize how important the differentiated school system is? – I can only write this to you in the main book here about a willingness to reform or inconsistency! Also listen to the population that says anyway – I quote the “standard”, the “profile”, “NEWS”, but also other opinional research institutes, all of which express it – that: Their model of the entire school is rejected by the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] What we – and I say a warm thank you to Mrs Minister – express with this paper as the first result of the reform dialogue is a first major and important step, with which much happens for both students and teachers who are at least key to good teaching. I am talking, above all, about a professionalization of the teaching profession. This includes, for example, the conversion of PÄDAKs into educational universities, but also the qualification of the management level and, moreover, a performance-oriented payment with regard to the activities of the class board. I hope that the next step will be a general performance-oriented payment, because it is of course also important for the teacher not to be misled, but also to get motivating incentives. The student should be at the centre of the student's position. There are the five-day week, but also voluntary support in the afternoon and, last but not least, funding lessons all year round, the right measures we are offering here in order not only to improve the PISA results – because it was probably easier to work on the next questionnaires – but to actually tackle the Austrian school system. Whoever is seriously interested in working on it, I also ask him to make constructive proposals here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17554	Mrs Dr Moser spoke in favour of an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, you know the Rules of Procedure. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17578	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Notburga Schiefermairhat claimed that Mr. Brosz meant that the Greens were against religious teaching. – That does not correspond to the facts! Mr Brosz, on the other hand, stressed that we are very much committed to religious education in the state of school because we support a shift in religious education in the private sector of fundamentalisation trends. It was a clear confession. Therefore, this clarification and this actual correction.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17617	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17641	Madam President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! PISA 2000 was already bad, and PISA 2003 was more than disillusioning for Austria. – So far to the so-called snapshot you used to quote. So much has not happened since 2000, because we have debated the standstill for a long time. The only thing that exists is now a request from the government parties to implement the results of the reform dialogue, as it says. However, I wonder: How seriously do you take your requests, and how credible are you? In any case, I have problems in believing and trusting you, for example, when you take the language early promotion that you have repeatedly quoted. There is a budget request and an answer from the Minister, who said: There are no additional funds, and if, then only in autumn 2006 – if! That means you have the early promotion in your application, but it is not implemented. That's not very credible. I can add a few more points. What does it make sense to announce that school needs continuity if there is no budgetary means to do so? How should students be able to rely on the quality of teaching if the school continues to promote more according to social origin than according to the abilities of the students? What pains me in particular is that, apart from the many declarations of intent, there is nothing to be found about what you are planning to do with promoting cultural education. They know that there has been a great reduction in this area. I think that this is already no longer one of the so-called "Soft Facts", but creativity and cross-thinking are demanded by the economy vehemently. Ladies and gentlemen! We do not need a pre-played interest, but we want the implementation of a socially balanced and modern education system. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17684	The next item is the speech by Mr Riepl. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17705	Madam President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Federal Minister, in your contribution you have pointed out the good schools and teachers. I would like to support you in this. I also believe that in our country there are very many good and dedicated teachers and also schools that have good conditions with the teachers. That is why the debate is not going on. We are concerned that committed teachers and dedicated schools also need the right support and proper working conditions. That's what it's all about, and you should work on the fact that these are also given. From my point of view, there has been too little, and I would like to express this. They also meant that an initiative must be set in relation to the 9.5% of young people who do not attend secondary school – I think I correctly understood you, Mrs. Federal Minister – that this share will be reduced again. I can remind you that it was before your time as Minister of Education, since we could, together with pride, say almost to it, point out that there was a maximum of one or two of a hundred young people aged 15 who did not attend secondary education and school, either teaching or school. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: No, that was...!]] But now it is almost ten out of a hundred who actually stand there and do not know what they should continue to do! So this is about getting back to the conditions that we had before. But there's still a lot ahead of you. Mr Großruck, you have been quoted several times with your contribution today. You have compared the educational situation with a car; for you as the former managing director of a car, this is certainly allowed. You've titulated the spark plugs, which might be due to some misunderstanding, and you said: If we exchange them, we screw them out, then the problem is solved, and “then it goes again,” you literally said. It's true, the spark plug in the car is important – we know that, too, as a technician, I know that – because just the spark plug has to do the right thing at the right time, that is to light up. But if you compare this link with the educational abuse or the educational situation, then I feel that you mean, of course, the spark plugs in education policy, and that can only be the Minister of Education. Did I really understand you? You're for screwing out, for sharing, and then you're doing better again? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: A misinterpretation!]] I do not think you have done a good job by your party to the Federal Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17761	No one has made any mention of this. This debate is closed. Does one of the rapporteur want the final word? - That's not the case. We are therefore voting on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 834 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. (E 93.) We are now voting on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Brosz, colleagues and colleagues on afternoon care for students with special educational needs and extraordinary pupils. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to give an appropriate sign. – That is the minority and therefore rejected. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Committee on Education to take note of its report 835 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall also vote on the resolution attached to the Committee Report 835 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This too is the majority and thus adopted. (E 94.) We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Gusenbauer, colleagues, on the resolution of the reform. blockade in the school sector by abolishing the requirement of two-thirds majority and anchoring a constitutional mission of the Austrian school. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this motion for a resolution to do so. – This is the minority and thus rejected. [[18:22:31]] 4. Point Report by the Constitutional Committee on Amendment 544/A by Dr Ulrike Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dipl.-Ing. Uwe Scheuch, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the KommAustria Act (837 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17883	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. First of all, Mr Dr. Wittmann. His welcome time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17910	Madam President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! The amendment of the Komustria law, which we have to discuss here today, must be made on the basis of a constitutional court complaint of the ORF. There is also a little to consider the Genesis of this law. Genesis of this law has played out as follows: A law has been made in proven Husch-Pfusch-Manier and the funding of the authority has been transferred to the broadcasting operators. As often as you have, you have shot beyond the goal. This broadcasting authority has established itself and, of course, has taken over Deutsche Telekom's agendas, but from the previous seven officials who have done so in the Federal Chancellor's Office, this authority has grown to 72 employees within a short time. I already want to admit that most of it is located in the Telekom area, but yet such an explosion of the number of employees is not explainable. It can't be that you have something to do, and then you do exactly what you actually wanted to save, to an even greater extent, namely an unbridled reception of personnel, which really shot beyond every goal. The broadcasting operator was financing such personnel costs that had risen to the immeasurable without being able to say whether that was necessary, a thorn in mind, which is understandable. As a result, this Constitutional Court of Justice has brought an action that ultimately leads to a reorientation of this KommAustria law. As a matter of concern, it should be noted that the distributed parts invest completely uncontrolledly in personnel again, without any control instance being taken in. I also fear the same in the area of justice, namely the newly established supervisory authority for copyright marketing companies. There, too, there will be a breakdown, even there one would like to transfer the costs to those concerned, and there too it is to be feared that those who bear the costs have no influence on the development of staff and that there is a surplus trend. This Constitutional Court of Justice also noted that this authority has not only taken over broadcasting agencies but also agents of the general public, so that the entire cost structure cannot be overcome. The main criticisms were that the tasks should be defined by law and that, ultimately, a total amount of expenditure should be set. This has now been partially done, but we cannot, of course, give our consent to this law. We believe that the Komustria law itself has many criticisms, but in particular we refer to a criticism point that is also liable to this law and that makes it impossible to vote. [[Abg. Wittauer: Which one?]] Firstly, 25 percent of the effort has been agreed as a share of the service for the general public. It's not understandable why it's just 25 percent. It could be some house number, and it's also a house number. Even worse is that a 25 percent share comes from the budget, not from the general budget, but from the Digitalisation Fund. That means taking money out of that area that needs it, because we are already in a real competitive disadvantage there, namely from the Digitalisation Fund, to pay what you can actually pay from the general budget. In principle, therefore, this novelle must also be rejected.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17947	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Baumgartner-Gabitzer. Your preferred speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e17968	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have heard with great interest and with great attention the speech of my predecessor, Mr Wittmann, and I have had to say with regret that he does not agree with the revision of the Kommeustria law. I have tried to understand his reasons, and unfortunately I have to tell you that I have not really succeeded. [[Abg. Wittauer: He hasn't mentioned anyone!]] I also believe that he is obviously in error here or has other reasons for refusing his consent to which I would like to address briefly. Why is there even this novelle? – The amendment has become necessary because a Constitutional Court of Justice has established that operators should not have to bear the full cost of financing for the two authorities RTR and Kommeria. The reason for this is that they also carry out tasks in the general interest and therefore also have the public authority to perform some of these tasks. We have made very good and clear in this innovation that the performance of tasks, which is in the public interest, is also financed by the public authorities. These are, as you have said, 25 percent, and this is also set out in this amendment, in this novel. That's true, too! This has nothing to do with an overwhelming human resources development or the like, Mr Wittmann, but only with what tasks are carried out by whom, which serves the public interest, which is in the interests of the market participants and which is therefore also to be paid from the resources of the market participants. The fact that the costs for regulators are also borne by the companies that are moving in this market – the Telekom companies, but also ORF or other broadcasting companies – is there also in other areas, for example in the electricity industry for ECG, the Electricity Controll GmbH, and is actually logical and also right in the matter. This was in no way doubted by the constitutional court's knowledge. We have found a very good way to ensure funding in areas where a regulator is necessary. You can really confirm to the RTR and the KommAustria that they do very good work. And then I have to hide back again: In recent years, when the SPÖ has borne responsibility for media policy, we have actually been sleeping for a decade or even a longer period of time. That is, we have had a standstill in Austrian media policy for 10 to 15 years, and the SPÖ is responsible for that. In recent years, we have finally seen a development in media policy, which can also be represented in the public and is supported by policy, thanks in particular to Secretary-General Morak, who has been very active in this area. Private radio and private television were also made possible. Unfortunately ten years too late, but anyway! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Better a little too late than not at all! Under your responsibility, this would probably continue to be the case – why? I can also remember our discussion in committee. Unfortunately, it has not been possible to discuss the novels with you in terms of content, but you have in the end always spread about personnel policy and ORF policy, which in media policy, when it comes to a Komustria law, has nothing at all to look for. It was therefore relatively easy to understand where your criticism points are. I would also like to use my speaking time to make an amendment to the proposal for an initiative. It serves as a complement to § 17a para. 3: the same transitional provisions for the calculation and payment of financial contributions in 2005 are to be applied to the field of broadcasting and telecommunications. I would now like to read the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18051	The amendment tabled just now by Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer is properly tabled, sufficiently supported and is therefore in consultation. Next item is the report by Mr Marizzi. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18075	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, Of course, the discussion in the Committee was controversial because we do not agree with this amendment. To blame the SPÖ for eleven or ten years of missing media policy is not fair, Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, because you were in the government at that time, as far as I can remember. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I think you should leave the party policy out of the ORF – here I am your opinion – and I think you should support the ORF. [[Abg. Parnigoni: What the ÖVP does not do!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: The Social Democrats did not do that at the time!]] In the discussion in the Committee, the Secretary of State said that the ORF was selling too few programmes. This statement can be supported, because the ORF is not marketable enough. You used the example of Luxembourg, I think that is not such a good example. I believe that the ORF should be supported with regard to its quality and education, which would be very right for us. Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer! They have pointed out that the Constitutional Court has essentially drawn three points for today's novels. We are d’accord at the first point where the tasks are defined by law. The second point that not only is controlled by broadcasting operators but also by other controllers or regulators is also fine. However, the total amount of expenditure must be determined by law. Mrs Colleague, society is no longer a small society. It has 75 employees and an effort of € 8 million. What does not fit us is the following – I might say that in two points –: It is not an independent control authority, as it should be according to international standards. The Authority is bound or dependent on the Federal Chancellor. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: Because you voted against it!]] - Why? For God's sake, my colleague, that is democracy! Because we're against it! Not because we are against it on principle, but because it is linked to the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany. [[Abg. Dr. Ferdinand Maier: Go, stop!]] Not: “Go, stop!” – I mean, where are we that you just say: Go, stop because she's bound up! – This is how you deal with democracy, Mr Maier! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We do not agree with this amendment, because there is no transparency, you know, because 25 percent of the activities have to be paid by the public, which are not precisely controlled, and because, very valued Mrs Baumgartner-Gabitzer, there is no cost truth there and no fair competition. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18170	Mr Wittauer spoke next time. You have not given a voluntary limit on speaking time, Mr Wittauer, so I am setting the clock at 20 minutes. [[Abg. Wittauer: I'll need 4 minutes!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: That's enough for colleagues Wittauer!]] - Okay, four minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18214	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am not surprised that the Socialists have rejected it, but the reason for this is very strange. One has heard: no fair competition, the apparatus is inflated or has grown rapidly – the regulatory authority's task has grown so large, especially in the telecoms sector, not only as an arbitration body, but also as an observer of competition. This is so important for consumers that, of course, the general part of the activity can be evaluated in some form. There is nothing against the fact that if you know the figures very well, you make a revision to determine how high the costs actually are. The fact that the ORF is still involved in the argumentation and that it speaks of the ORF as the field of influence of the ÖVP – that may already be true; but I remember that there were times when the SPÖ was very strongly involved – played a very strong role that may perhaps be played by the ÖVP today – which here mentions as the reason that one does not agree with a law that is made for the general public and especially for the customers... [[Abg. Marizzi: I didn't say that!]] – I heard this out here once more; you can then rebut it. The fact that the regulatory authority itself is very important to the customer has undoubtedly been proven in the past. When you look at the cases you are dealing with – not just with spam and the small things – which can meet the people outside and his family very much with costs that are overly high. We know that there are also many areas on the Internet that the regulatory authority is dealing with. It must be said that one must support it, that funding must be secured and that, of course, the general share also plays a role, apart from saying that perhaps someone else is responsible. – I would deal with this in terms of content. This was also the content of the findings of the Constitutional Court of Justice of the 7th century. ==References== It was the criticism that it had been evaluated only unilaterally so far and that funding was only secured unilaterally. This has also been remedied with the novelle, and that we have divided that by 25: 75, I think that is worth supporting. Let's take a look at this. This law is supported, we will always agree. I hope that the Social Democrats will take a heart and support the consumer and free competition indirectly, and then everyone will be served. I think that makes sense. Please, Mr Marizzi, think about it. Read again and support this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18251	The next item is the speech by Mr Prehauser. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18272	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) The regulation law of this media authority is not the first time in the plenary session to be innovative. Of course, at the beginning of the private radio, we cannot, of course, win love for this project. The law was then designed in such a way that on the one hand one did not want to hurt the ORF, on the other hand he wanted to allow private radios, but in the end he also wanted to know who would operate them. That's what the law looked like. Here, and this must be said, the regulatory authority has contributed to the fact that it has become an instrument that has also become a support for private radio operators in their interests. You can say that in a way that is valueless. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, the conditions are different. If the ORF is able to pay compulsory contributions and can also manage advertising, this is a different condition, even if I can claim amounts for my telecom services, but as a private radio operator, I live exclusively from advertising. Therefore, it is also necessary to look in the future at whether this is being done justly in order to maintain the diversity of the media in the future. We don't have any of it, if a number of frequencies are finally used, there are only three or four private radio operators. Rather, it should be as the original thought was: A wide range of areas of the population should be given the opportunity to articulate via broadcasting, and they should be as pleasant as possible to make life as possible. The media authority is already doing its part, Mr State Secretary, and I would like to thank you, but the policy is still required to ensure that balanced competition is maintained here. If private radios are forbidden to operate advertising in ORF, private radio advertising is not also accepted by ORF, I wonder why Ö1, Ö2, Ö3 may operate advertising on television. We've also approved private television. In Salzburg there is a TV station, which is not able to send at half past eight o'clock in the evening, at 7.30 p.m., because a frequency is used in the city of Salzburg for Upper Austrian television, but on which no picture appears at that time. Here, too, it would be important for the authority to consider whether the ORF needs the frequencies it uses or sets on ice, or whether it should not give the existing radio operators the chance to expand their programme, so that more people will be able to use it, so that these channels can also be heard. It's better, so as it is now to stay with fewer private individuals, to create more competition and to put in a business where there is nothing to earn, and thus at the same time to anticipate the loss of the company. We want healthy private radio areas, healthy private TV areas and also an ORF, which of course must fulfil its task provided for by the law for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18315	The next item is the report by Mr Morak, State Secretary. – Mr State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18336	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you for the material contributions that have been made here in this House. I am particularly grateful to Mr Prehauser for the questions raised. Just one answer: Cross promotion is of course forbidden to the ORF: § 13 para. 9 new ORF law. To the “husk-pusch-law”: neither husch nor pussy. Mr Wittmann, you know exactly how purpose-oriented and meticulous the officials in the BKA are in the legislative process, especially in the field of media legislation, simply because they know how sensitive the matter is. I believe that the Constitutional Court's judgment has also confirmed this work, because the Constitutional Court, with its knowledge, has not called into question the system of financing by market participants in principle, which has indeed been sought, but in its main guidelines. In particular, the VfGH had no concerns about the assessment of the financial contribution after the respective turnover of the contributor. Secondly, to the staff – let me take a brief look at it. Of course, the reception of staff is subject to the control of the Supervisory Board of the RTR. Under this new law, of course, there is also a right of opinion for businesses on the budget. Of course, this is also subject to the responsibility of the ministers and, of course, also to the right of question or to the control of Parliament. I would like to make a comparison here simply because he fails to discuss it. We have looked at how the other media authorities look at the personnel costs, what costs they have. In a country comparable to Finland, the cost to the media authority is €25 million, the Danish NITA has a budget of €31.2 million and the Swedish PTS budgets a €22.9 million. Jobs Please also take into account the fact that the tasks for these media authorities have naturally grown, especially through digitalisation and everything related to them. The effort is also justified by the fact that we finally came to European normality, because Austria was the only country in Europe in 2000 that had no media authority yet and had not approached this subject professionally, market-keeping. – In this sense, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18379	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Believable. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18403	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! This novel is a repair. That has already been said. It is essentially about the implementation of a constitutional court's experience of October last year, which has abolished parts of the KommAustria law with the grounds for the illegality of the Constitution. The argument of the Constitutional Court is actually very logical, namely that the financing of the Authority by market participants is not justified because these authorities also have to carry out tasks in the general interest and the tasks that benefit the general interest must also be borne in the general budget. That's a very coherent argument. With this novel, the implementation of this knowledge has been tried and we believe that it has also succeeded. That is why we will also agree to this amendment. It is also a redesign of Telekom-Control Austria and a relatively complicated budget-planning provision, which has now been incorporated into an amendment, but which we received two days ago and which we will also agree with. Regrettably, in the course of the recent discussion with KommAustria as a media authority, the opportunity to make the KommAustria really independent and pointless has not been used. It is in the self-understanding of a market or a market which, to a large extent, has to perform public-law tasks, that this has to be done by a non-wisdom independent authority. We've been proposing this more often. Unfortunately, it is not a majority in this House for this exemption to be found for this independence. We regret that. It's a far-reaching chance the other day. In conclusion: The Greens always have three pillars in the foreground in their conception of a broadcasting and television world of Austria, one of which is not systematically seen by this Federal Government, that is the free and non-commercial sector, in addition to the public-law, in addition to the commercial sector, this non-commercial, free, above all radio area, which still has great difficulties in financing and which, in our opinion, would be an indispensable third pillar of a media world in Austria. So we could start the discussion again about this redesign of the Austrian media landscape. For Greens, this third pillar is indispensable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18440	Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18461	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! Mrs Glawischnig, as well as her colleagues in the committee, once again pointed out that we should have taken the opportunity to ensure independence and freedom of instruction in a novel that we must make. You heard earlier that the SPÖ did not go along with the decision on the law, and for me what Mr Cap said in the committee was very interesting. He said that we were against it at the time, because the authority would only have become “independent”. And he said that the government would have enforced its membership of the authority and then would have made it independent. Does this mean that the SPÖ agrees to an independent authority only if it can have a decisive influence on the composition of the persons there? [[Abg. Gradwelt: No! But we want real independence!]] Because otherwise, please, you can no longer agree to an independent authority at all. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Gradwell: We agree to an actual independence!]] [[Further calls to the SPÖ.]] It has already been complained that the costs of the authority have increased accordingly, it has already been said that this has been done through many new tasks. But now expenditure is being covered, with €8 million for the telecommunications sector and €3 million for the broadcasting sector. That is to say, the 25 percent that fall on the league are covered with € 2 million and € 750 000 respectively. The whole thing is valued, but I believe that this also means that we have an outlay of costs in our hands. It has also been complained by the SPÖ that it is not exactly comprehensible why it comes to 75 : 25. It is true that the explanatory statement lists for a long time what activities there are, and in each activity it is estimated how many percent are attributable to the public sector or to the interest of broadcasting operators or telecom operators. The result is 75 : 25. I think it just didn't go any further. It is also important to me that we enter into force with 1. ==References====External links== The further amendment tabled today also ensures that too many amounts are reimbursed, even if the person concerned does not take up any further benefits. It is also essential that transparency is ensured, which was also doubted by the SPÖ. It is also in the amendment that the contributors not only have a right to comment but also that the Authority should decide on the corresponding budget, taking into account the comments of the contributors. This also ensures that the interests of the contributors are taken into account as far as possible. In this sense, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we have succeeded in making the necessary legislative repairs optimal, and I believe that all political groups could agree to good consciences of this novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18523	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Shame. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18545	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Dr. Glawischnig spoke of a “repair” of the novelle. – This may be a bit harsh in the wording, but it is what was said by the Constitutional Court. [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: It's true! It's a repair!]] We're doing it, and it's good. I think it's crucial that the result is okay. This novelle will hopefully bring a positive result, and that is good. This novelle of the Komustria law was necessary, the funding must be put on reasonable legs – that was clearly said by my previous speakers – because the market participants so far had to pay contributions that were actually not to be paid by them, because here is a priority for public interest. In the past, public interest has been the responsibility of the State to pay it out of the state fund, and this should continue to be the case. As Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig speaks of this broader, freer media landscape of the future: Mrs Doctor, in this regard you will always find an open ear with us. I think there's been a lot of things going on in the last few years, and it's all been called that there's more going on. I think it is precisely such a small law that, in this House, at least much more discussion should be made about these many issues of consensus, and that the parties in the final effect will bring together a good outcome, perhaps also a little less of the dispute that is often taking place here and which will give a positive future for parliamentary work. This novel is, I believe, a good example of this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18581	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Hakl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18603	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am actually very sorry that no one has mentioned by the opposition parties that, in addition to the part of the RTR concerning the ORF, the RTR department of the RTR is also affected by this novel. The telecom industry is, after all, a very large and very important industry in Austria, which now no longer has to bear the entire cost of regulation alone. It is very important that these companies with several thousand employees in Austria have a fair framework with billions of investment in this country. Regulation is an area from which the Federation cannot adopt its financial responsibility. Key areas of the Authority, which are not directly in the interests of companies, are also to be paid by the public authorities. That's why this novelle is very important. At least a quarter of the regulatory costs will be borne by the Federal Government in the future. The companies have long called for this, and we have finally implemented it. In addition, the competence of the regulator is reworded and more precisely formulated, and I think it is very important that we build a new area of competence in the telecommunications sector also in the light of the findings of the Wim-Kok report on the Lisbon strategy. In the future, the regulator will also be able to commission studies that will also serve as a basis for our work as MEPs and parliamentarians in order to implement a forward-looking and forward-looking Telekom policy in Austria. The ÖVP is a guarantee that a direction-setting Deutsche Telekom strategy for our country in Europe goes beyond the legislative periods – together with the regulator, but above all together with the companies in Austria and with consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18633	There's no one left to speak here. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur wish for a final word? - That's not the case. We shall therefore vote on the draft law in 837 of the Supplements. Mr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Sheuch, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment. Since only this one request is made, I shall immediately leave the draft law with the title and receipt in 837 of the Supplements, taking into account the amendment tabled by Dr Baumgartner-Gabitzer, Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch, ladies and gentlemen. I would ask those Members of the House who give this request an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen, who are also at third reading for this draft law, to have a sign of approval. - That's the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[19:00:13]] 5. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (829, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, with which a foreign disaster fund law is passed and empowerment on federal assets is granted and the salary law 1956, the Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz and the Landescontractslehrergesetz 1966 are amended (Budgetbehördegesetz 2006) (833 d.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18693	We're now on the 5th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are entering the debate. Mr Matznetter was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18724	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Today, on the eve of the start of the budget consultations, we are dealing with a law which was introduced under the very inappropriate title Budgetary Accompanying Act 2006. If you look at what is being changed, these are laws which are about to be dealt with in this House, but which have nothing to do with the 2006 budget at all. In this area, we have a federal law on the relief fund for disasters abroad, we have a change to the salary law 1956, we have a sale of federal shares at Linz Airport, we have a free transfer of movable federal assets, and in reality one would now come to the point where one asks: Where does the 2006 Budgetary Support Act take the following things into account? Growth in Austria – as in many European countries, but unfortunately below the average of European countries – is falling behind the EU-25 average. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz keeps a document up to date and makes a comment on it.]] – You do not need to make any comments, Mr State Secretary, we can prove this at any time on the basis of Eurostat statistics. Above all, there are ten to twelve countries in front of us. Secondly, There is an increase in unemployment, ladies and gentlemen, which is stronger than in most European countries. We have a historic peak of 360 000 people looking for work in this country. There is a standstill in infrastructure investment. We have just discussed today the construction of a Semmering Tunnel, which has been moved to the future for 20 years. We have a German chancellor who does not even know that the so-called Waltraud Stollen project – that is the 93 million euro number, which has now been placed in the sand with the Federal Chancellery Change, which has been made between the Heads of State and the Federal Chancellor and the Vice Chancellor – would have been the Rescue Stolls, that is, the second Stolls, and that the system of course has a second tube as a rescue tube, namely, exactly these test stables. [[Abg. Bucher: We discuss the budget accompanying law!]] Wherever we need this infrastructure investment, where we need measures to attract the investment of businesses, where SMEs have removed the last investment advantage, there are no measures in this law. If you read in the front page – one thing you have to leave to the government – it is not dishonest – as regards the impact on the employment and economic location of Austria, there is an honest answer there: None! This is the truth that is out here in the cover. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Sad!]] The government is making a budget policy that does not have an impact, which does not contribute to reducing unemployment, which does not contribute to our having more growth that does not contribute to more infrastructure investment that does not contribute to making progress in education which does not contribute to the fact that we have more money for universities that do not contribute to the faster rise in R & D ratios, which does not contribute to the country becoming technologically forwards, which in a budget which provides reductions in the funding of SMEs, although it is precisely this one that has the most difficult time and we have the highest reference statistics, that does not take action. We have a budget-accompanied law, in which the cover mentions financial consequences that do not even have a budget impact in a post-comma office. This is not a budget-accompaniment law! We would like to agree with the measures in detail. However, we keep in mind the lack of the accompanying law, which is why we request a separate vote and in this separate vote reject the title, namely the Mogel Pack “Budget Accompaniment Act”. We agree with the content of the laws. There is no objection either. In the end let me light a little on why that is so! This government is in a state in which it is not even able to agree on simplest legislative projects – whether it be the Banking Act, for example, budget accompanying measures. This is a state of stagnation, of endurance, of non-mehr-canning. This condition is also noticeable in this convoluted, it is noticeable in a fantasyless budget that does not make any impulses, no measures, no contribution. [[The speaker points to a bump of papers]] [[Abg. Neudeck: This is a political blind man! That's crazy!]] Fantasyless, burned down, to the end! Let it be! Renew yourself in the opposition, maybe it will be better once again! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18815	Next item is the report by Mr Jakob Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18840	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! It was remarkable how artfully Mr Matznetter tried to justify here why one would not agree to the packaging, but already the content. It is also a little to recall how, a few years ago, on the occasion of the debate on the budget accompanying law on the part of the opposition, perhaps even rightly, critical remarks were made on the scope of the budget accompanying laws when we had wrapped 96 laws in a package. There was on the part of the government, on the part of the majority groups, quite the promise that it would be better to think and to face up to the possible legitimate criticism of the opposition, that in the budget accompanying laws only one should be the absolutely necessary one. [[Abg. Murauer: That's it! But that's not what Matznetter understood!]] But to justify today that one could not agree to the packaging on and for himself, because no cost – no cost! – for the budget, that is more than strange, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Well, I understand. It is hard to justify it, because the content is in order – it has said Mr Matznetter – so that one would agree here. [[Calls and calls between SPÖ and ÖVP]] Ladies and gentlemen! What is the point of this content? – It is about one, I believe, important institution to the foreign disaster fund law. We know from national experience that such a disaster fund is a crucial tool to help in difficult situations in natural disasters. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Yes, but we do not need to decide that in a budget accompanying law!]] It is about selling shares of the federal government at Linz Airport. It is a matter of introducing measures in the field of teachers. This will be addressed accordingly by Mr Neugebauer. First point: Austria appreciates the establishment of a disaster fund because we know from experience what it is about and how it can be helped. I am only saying a word about flood 2002 when, thanks to such an institution, the European Union was also able to support our favours. By the way, the invention of the disaster fund in Austria has been remembered here. It was decided in 1966 and entered into force in 1967. Against the voices of the then strong opposition of the SPÖ. This was a decision of an ODP government alone, an excellent measure. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] [[Abg. Newborn: Listen! Listen!]] But that's not what I'm talking about. It is a matter of confessing that this institution is important internationally. Ladies and gentlemen! Because the suggestion has come that we would not be very positive in economic growth and in many other areas, it would certainly be appropriate to seek a comparison to look at benchmarks. Ladies and gentlemen! There is a comparison of the high technology Germany-Austria. I don't want to go into what the FORMAT wrote recently with an 11 : 3 compared to Austria to Germany, where they said so very suffocatingly: Only in football in Cordoba would we have been much better, otherwise the Germans would be better. The fact is, Mr Matznetter, that we are better off in almost all areas, whether this is in employment, in the budget figures, in youth employment or in the location ranking. We do not need to hide a comparison with Germany, which has always been the country you have been driven by, where we, too, have rightly - I admit - looked up many times, because of its economic locomotive function in Europe. Today, however, the Germans look jealously at Austria and would be happy to have similar results and facts as Austria. That is why we very much agree with this budget accompanying law, which for the first time costs nothing.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18921	The next item is Mr Brosz. Desirable time: 6 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18942	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! I would like to deal with a part of the budget accompanying law, where I think there is something inside – and that in contrast to Mr Matznetter, who said it was nothing in it – with the unlimited adoption of the LDG new, that is, the Landeslehrer Service Law new. At least in the field of national teachers, this has been a very important issue. Now one could say that there has been a vote that has been positive, it will already be legitimate to take over this national teacher service right. But I think you should look at the previous story that has been given to it. At the beginning of these austerity measures in the field of education, in 2000, the state teachers have been presented with an alternative that has been said, either to refrain from a certain proportion or to accept a tacit increase in teaching obligations or to a teacher's reduction. At the time, the trade union also promoted this with an original vote accordingly. And there was a result that then went out new for this LDG. In the In the meantime, both have occurred: Teachers have worked more, and there has nevertheless been a strong teacher reduction over the financial compensation. The promise of at least not reducing posts at this level has, I think, been quite clearly broken. At that time, the budget was decided so that it said we were making a four-year term. This LDG would expire at the beginning of the next school year, i.e. in September 2005. And it was promised that this law will be evaluated after four years. I'd be interested where the evaluation stayed, I didn't see one. There is, I think, no evaluation. It didn't matter. There has then been a draft in the framework of the budget accompanying law – which I have already suspected for a long time – to adopt it indefinitely, unless it is a super-law anyway. The union then said: Well, maybe it looks stupid too, so we should make another original vote. The original vote has also been carried out. It has re-entered with appropriate application of the trade union for this LDG. However, they did not ask the question: Do you want the old service law or the LDG new, but do you want the one savings variant of 2001 or the other savings variant of 2001? This is where the LDG was expected to apply accordingly. There have also been some Hoppalas, because this draft budget accompanying law has come while the vote has been taken. But in there it has already been said that you take over it indefinitely. They then somehow felt a bit “rolled” because it is kind of stupid when you make a original vote, but the draft law already says what is to come out. Don't worry. The result has then also matched together, it has turned out to be wonderful. It was also not an original vote. That is where we have voted with our personal data. They had not only all teachers, but also all directors. So I hope that really only the relevant teachers have given their voice and not a mass vote. By the way, it was not a secret vote either. It was also particularly “joyful” for teachers to understand who voted on the Internet for what it was, because if you did your data... – No, I don’t think that’s wrong, I’ve learned about it relatively well. [[Abg. Neugebauer: This is absolutely wrong!]] Please explain to me how this is not understandable if I enter my personal data in an Internet vote and get to a vote with this data. That this should not be understandable, at least if you want it, I would have liked to have explained. So that was understandable. Okay, so there's a wonderful result. Now we're doing the LDG. There was also a sugar in it. The sugar has been called: Now also class board compensation for compulsory school teachers, which corresponds to half in the AHS area, half sugar so to speak, the others get twice as much. Then there is the argument that they get a discount hour. Yeah, that's right. This is only not in line with the compulsory school and primary school teacher. That was original at the time, because the original vote that existed at the time was considered twice in the law, and there would have been a variant that would have entered into force if they had voted against the LDG at that time. This has just never entered into force. The interesting thing was that the class board compensation at that time had amounted to 115 € and now they get 70 €. That means that 45 € for the primary school teachers less than what was four years ago, therefore only partially interesting. But now I am telling you at the end, apart from the procedure, that this LDG is new to anything other than a so-called service-oriented service law. What's happening now? – This famous C-pot, which has been created, where no one knows exactly what is inside, how it is expected to fill the one with various activities you do in school, clearly goes away from the fact that you also honor different requirements of teachers accordingly. If you say that promotion education is important, then in the future it will not be with the fact that you say: Yes, teachers then write in the pot C, so to speak, they fill a part of their service time with funding instruction. This is a “great” motivation for it. You give promotion lessons, they do it, the others don't do it. Both get the same thing. If you are teaching a promotion, it must also be rewarded. And if you pretend to be performance-oriented, that would ultimately mean in the field of teachers: Total and exit from these teaching obligations. But then I wonder if it doesn't make a difference, whether you teach a language subject, or whether you might be teaching something like physical exercises, where you can really say, that's performance-oriented, if both – now thought orientally – have the same number of lessons. I believe that there are already certain differentiations and that one can simply perceive that. Performance-oriented does not necessarily mean putting everything into a teaching obligation, depending on who has what shares, which, by the way, are completely apart. You can fill the C-pot in different ways. But if you give a support instruction, as my colleague Rossmann suggested, or do a class board or not, or fill it with different other elements, I have to say that this is simply not comparable in quality. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] So we believe that this country teacher service law is by far not a future model, nor, by the way, as you suggest it, should this also come to the AHS teachers as a whole story, but if you talk about it, then I must say that we also want to have a new service right. We want it to be fairly rated, there is currently enough to do, and that it also corresponds to the educational and modern conditions. One should perceive such a thing as dealing with students, with psychological problems that occur in schools, consult, discuss with parents, and do not pretend that this is not part of a teaching profession, and that would also evaluate and abdicate accordingly, depending on how strongly individual teachers are confronted with it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e18987	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19008	Thank you, Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In terms of time-efficiency, I do not wish to repeat once again what my colleague has said. Auer has rightly said that... – Well, but one thing I would like to stress, namely, this abundance of budget accompanying laws. [[Abg. Mandak: There is also Mr Brosz!]] I can still remember that during the last budgetary negotiations it has always been said that we are packing too much into it, it is unclear, for many it is too little time to discuss that, in the committees et cetera. We have always remembered and stressed that we want to make this slimmer. This time we're making it slimmer, but you're not right again. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, this polemic, which is now running off the pile, is one that we have heard over the last few weeks and months. I do not want to deal with this very much now because tomorrow and in the budget debate we will still have enough time to discuss it. I believe that the content of the budget accompanying law, such as Article 1 and Article 2, is very important, for example, the establishment of an aid fund for disasters abroad. The supply position of two water treatment plants was a very important and sensible decision. We will therefore support all the laws contained in this budget accompanying law. My colleagues will address the other articles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19043	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Bauer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19066	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would just like to take a very brief look at the statements made by the previous speaker, Auer, who said that there are too many and sometimes too few budget-accompanied laws for the SPÖ. – This is not the criterion, but the criterion is whether it is linked to the budget in terms of content. This is very limited in this case. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: But still!]] You can pack it in. In the third reading, we will take this into account. But if, for example, here in the budget accompanying law a foreign disaster fund law with effectiveness 1. In January 2005, I have to say that it is practically effective and should therefore also be taken away. The free transfer of movable federal assets will be effective immediately. The sale of federal shares at Linz Gesellschaft mbH Airport is also effective immediately. In reality, everyone reading this budget will realize that this budget is building on an estimate, with the wording coming in the next few days that there will be increases from a budget estimate to the next budget estimate, for example in the labour market management. However, if we compare this with the 2004 budget success, we can see that there is a decline. I believe that it is quite clear that this budget accompanying law is separate from the budget and is also in clear contradiction to the Federal Minister's budget motto, namely'making work and securing the future'. In any case, this budget-accompanied law does not recognise this direction. There are no impulses that would be necessary, for example, for the creation of additional jobs, or for future prospects. The economic researchers also confirm a neutral position in terms of growth and employment in 2006 and, ladies and gentlemen, in a phase in which a boost in the labour market would be necessary, as more than 360 000 unemployed people are on the rise. It is not an improvement in the economic situation, but a stagnation at a moderate level. In this discussion, I believe it should be stressed that these necessary impulses should be put very well in the budget accompanying law. This law, which has no effect on employment and on Austria's economic location, is therefore not worthy of the name Budgetary Accompanying Act. In this sense, Matznetter has spoken about the lack of budget accompanying laws. So those we expected, they're not. That is why we can only agree to these laws at third reading. I believe that it would be extremely important to take action in the area of infrastructure and not just to announce it, because this will not bring about the benefits of the site when projects are said to be implemented in the years 2020 and 2025. In this sense, this positive criticism is to be understood that we would have expected more economic policies and more labour market policies to meet the objective that we all feel committed to, namely, more growth and more prosperity in this country.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19101	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr. Stummvoll. 4 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19124	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out by my colleague Jakob Auerdar that the argument of the opposition is actually in a negative double mill. Let us make a 2003 budget accompanying law, in which we amend 98 laws, saying: no, because that would be an overload of Parliament and the mandates. If we make a very slim 2006 budget-accompanied law with only three pages on which we change only six laws, then it says that there is nothing in it at all. I don't want to admit that it's in the nature of an opposition party that she always says no. Then she'll have to get into a negative double mill, that's clear to me. But I would like to deal with the accusation made by Mr Matznetter and Mr Hannes Bauer that there is too little offensive economic policy, labour market policies. Mr Bauer! With all understanding, I think it's a bit naïve when you think economic policy is like a music box: At the top, I throw a euro in, and there's more economics coming out below. Our real budget-accompanied laws, Mr. Colleague, because we continue to operate policies on a continuous and sustainable basis, were the economic package 1, the economic package 2, the growth and location package, tax reform 1 and tax reform 2. These were the accompanying laws, because we also regard economic policy as a structural policy. We insist on sustainability. I say once again, it would be naïve to believe that I am making a budget accompanying law today, where I – I say a house number – give in 100 million € and below will immediately come out more economic activity. That would be really naïve, Mr Bauer. That's actually below your level. I know you don't think so naive. But in your speech it's been a little bit like this. Second: Ladies and gentlemen! I have to say one thing, too. If Mr Matznetter here always argues with figures, carefully does not mention any source, but simply claims that our economic growth is lower than the economic growth of the EU-25, then I must say that I call a source that proves that our economic growth in 2005 is a trace higher than that of the EU-25 average and in 2006. My source is the EU Commission, the only body that provides an economic forecast for all 25 Member States. This is, in 2005, we have 2.4 percent growth, Germany 50 percent less, EU-25 2.3 percent less than us. And next year we have as much as the EU-25, but 50 percent higher growth than Germany. – These are the true numbers, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter is not here now, but I would invite him not to call false numbers without a source, but simply to say what it really looks like. It is no coincidence, Mr. Bauer, that you really believe that the “Neue Zürcher Zeitung”, the “Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung”, the “Süddeutsche Zeitung”, the currency fund, write what we want? The writing consistently, Austria is a success model, we envy Austria, Austria is the better Germany, Austria is a model example of successful reforms and so on. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Oils.]] Mr Oellinger, if you do not believe me, you believe the experts of the Monetary Fund. You'll be back here in three weeks. You can then make the sample on the sample.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19179	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Lunacek. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19201	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My previous speaker pointed out that there are only six laws in this budget accompanying law, but there is no consent from the opposition. – Well, it’s true that it’s less than 98, but for me the question arises whether it would make sense to treat in fact essential laws such as the establishment of this foreign disaster fund simply as its own law. This is a rather important step which we also welcome and which should not be taken in a budget-accompanied law, since, as my colleague Brosz has already said, we cannot agree with it at third reading, as is the case with regard to the law of the State Teachers' Service. But I would like to make it clear here that we very much welcome this foreign disaster fund, that it makes sense for it to be set up, because it makes sense to set up such a fund, as it does for the domestic population, for foreign countries as well as to set up the teaching system. That is why we will vote in favour of the law on item 7 in order to make it clear that this fund makes sense very well. However, there are some details that I was not entirely satisfied with in the Committee, as you have done, because you want to control this fund above all. Advisory committees shall be set up, whose members shall appoint the government. I think it would have made sense for such a fund, which is actually approved by everyone here, to ensure, for example, control of the appointment of advisory committees by Parliament. This would have been a useful way of involving Parliament, not just the Federal Government. Unfortunately, this is not going to change either, but I think it would have made sense for Parliament to be involved, to be appointed by advisory committees, and then to be more controlled. Of course, in the event of such disasters, the question always arises: How is the money spent? For whom is how much money spent? And I thought that a stronger role of Parliament was very useful. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] But, well, this has not happened, we will not prevent our approval at the second reading of this foreign disaster fund. Another point that would interest me – I do not know if the Secretary of State could give me an answer: At the beginning of January the former Minister of the Interior was appointed as a major auxiliary coordinator by the government, it has been said that he will fulfill this task in the first quarter of 2005, and today the 31st is. March, i.e. the end of the first quarter of 2005. We haven't heard from him for a long time about what he's done. I would be interested if he was still doing this task or if he had already given it? We know that coordination of aid is very much still necessary, but we do not know whether Mr Straster still has this function. If you order someone in such a function, it makes sense that the one who ordered him, namely the Federal Chancellor, will then also meet him again and also say what the balance of it is. It would be interesting to know: Did he really do what he promised? Although he is not paid for it, he still receives his ministerial salary for it. These points are completely unexplained. As I said, the first quarter of 2005 is coming to an end today, but we do not know whether Mr. Ex-Minister Strasser is still doing something or whether he is now only looking for a job or not. [[Abg. Dr. One: How long the first quarter will last!]] But I have put a written question in this regard and I hope that it will be answered in the near future and will then explain to us what it is about this task of Mr Ex-Innenminister. Some remarks also refer to the law concerning the federal shares at Linz Airport. We will also agree with this law, because in this case, the assessment does look a lot more serious than it was, for example, at Klagenfurt Airport. But what does not seem particularly serious to us is the fact that it has already been said since the beginning of March that this has already been completed. This is how it is presented, but the law is only now in Parliament. But, well, we will also vote in favour of this law in the second reading. In the third reading, there will be no agreement from our side for the above reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19243	The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19265	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! I am particularly pleased that we can once discuss an essential part of education with a representative of the Ministry of Finance. I would like to note that the LDG in the form, as it is now being extended, is partly in agreement with us, but it is in need of change or development. That is why I would like to take this opportunity to address the Secretary of State and tell him that the Ministry of Finance should have an interest in ensuring that public funds are used as effectively as possible and in particular in a fair manner. If I look at the LDG and the individual pots, I have to say: It is no longer contemporary in this form! I just mention one example: We have now set a total of 1 800 hours with the LDG in compulsory school and have committed 20 to 22 hours per week in pot A as teaching time. I emphasize: Only 20 to 22 hours! In other words, teachers have the opportunity to decide which hours they then use at home in addition as hours of activity or as follow-up and correction hours. But I also say that – and this is not true of time and also unfair – this regulation only exists in compulsory schooling, not yet in the AHS area, and that if, for example, one hour or two hours per week are not to be recovered during these 22 hours. That's what the fewest know. That means those hours are over. It does not appear in any service right that an hour that is not done – not for sickness, but for other reasons – does not have to be recovered. If you are talking about an annual working time model, it must be possible that these hours will be registered and reclaimed. - That's the one point. The other point, which is my heart – Mr Brosz has already done it – concerns the pot C. The pot C is not exactly defined. It is in the law that the respective headmasters can define this pot C for general teaching obligations. That's a pretty sluggish term, and the usus is such that it is not specified, for example in funding hours, in parental care. If we are already talking about equal opportunities, I would also like to talk about minimizing the cost of remedial aid, and I am glad in this case too, and I am pleased that I am able to address it to a representative of the Ministry of Finance. I say very carefully: Remedial training is a matter which takes place in the private sector. The cost of this now – calculated in Schilling – almost reaches the billion limit. This means that the Ministry of Finance should be interested in the fact that these many, many additional hours are also taxed. If not, at least parents should have no extra costs. It is possible to offer follow-up hours in the afternoon. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Sales tax?]] Income tax, for example, or VAT on services. But income tax definitely. As has already been said, this law is urgently in need of development, it must also be linked to a new salary system, with a uniform service law. I think we have eight or nine different service rights in Austria. A new salary system is therefore also necessary in order to create a permeability with regard to the individual schools or occupations of teachers. This permeability should also be given in relation to the future development of educational universities, university education, baccalaureate studies and much more of what is relevant to us. I am looking for the Ministry of Finance – which should also have an interest in it – as more justice is needed. I would be pleased if we were to have a new salary system, with higher initial salaries of teachers, with a system as it is applied in Finland – Mr Brosz has already done it – with an incentive system where funding hours are paid extra, where additional benefits that teachers are willing to provide are extra paid to make a fairer system possible. I know from many, many teachers who are very empathetic and do much beyond their duties that they are only mildly smiled by their colleagues. Often, the comment is as follows: Why are you doing this, you're not getting any more grunts? This point would have to be included in a modern service right for teachers. I'll hold on to this. It is very important for us that there is once again a uniform service right for all compulsory school and AHS teachers, a merger of all service rights into a fairer system, into a system with which the reputation of teachers also increases in the public.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19301	The next item is the speech by Mr Ddr. Decliner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19323	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! First of all, a few words towards the colleague Rossmann. Mrs Colleagues, many of what you have said here, I can quite agree with the approach, especially what a modern right to serve. I'm just wondering why you're going out of here as a coalition partner and you're just arguing. [[Abg. Rossmann: I think I can make proposals!]] If the opposition has something to criticize, that's okay, but As a coalition partner, you would have the opportunity to provide a law that will also find your approval within, to which you can stand here. Well, that's a little surprising. What I would like to ask more precisely is your opinion that you should treat the re-help – you have addressed the Secretary of State with it – tax treatment. Does this mean that the parents should now also pay VAT or VAT in addition to the after-supply costs? [[Abg. Rossmann shakes his head.]] Mrs Rossmann, as you mentioned Finland: I was at a discussion in St. Pölten, where a Finnish expert said – she is at the University in Vienna – that what she is most surprised about in Austria is the fact that the parents are even happy that they have to pay so much for aid, because in fact it would be possible for the school to provide the necessary information. [[Abg. Lentsch: This is on a voluntary basis! Or?]] I think that would be the goal of getting such a school system. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, we need a lot more in the field of service law – but not only in the field of service law. This goes from school autonomy to financial allocations until children cannot be checked out, but they can stay in class. So that's where I think we have to take over a lot. The fact is that the budget accompanying law and also the budget, Mr State Secretary, do not give any impetus to education policy. That is, we find, the most unfortunate of these things. The only thing that is included here is the 70 € from autumn next year for the class boards. 70 times 10 is 700 € a year – so that everyone can understand exactly how much that is. [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Sburny: We already had annoyed bills!]] No, I'm just saying that to safety. Secondly, The question that has remained unanswered, Mr State Secretary, perhaps in the meantime you have found the answer; we have already asked about it in the Committee – is this: Why is there a difference: for a class board of AHS 136 €, for a high school board 70 €? Does one have any easier and the other easier? They said that they have completely different rights of service. That's, we think, a little problem. In fact, it is the case that the rights of the service are removed from each other again instead of joining them together. The second question we would have liked to answer is: What is it like in the following case: How much does a teacher, who teaches chemistry and German in a third grade, has 15 years of service, is a class board, is out in the month, and how much does a teacher who teaches history and German in a third class school have 15 years of service, is a class board in one month? We wanted to know about you. I thought the Ministry of Finance actually knew a lot. You may not want to tell us, or you really don't know what I don't think. I do not think you know, because you have also been active in the Court of Auditors and have been very intensive about these issues. Maybe you'll tell us today. [[Abg. Heinzl: I don't believe that!]] The reason why, in contrast to the Green Group's colleagues, we agree to this law, including with regard to the teacher sector, is that the teachers have voted in favour of this model by a majority. You have had the choice between a model that has never actually entered into force, and this one, and I think it has a certain social partnership tradition, that you take note of these results from our side, and therefore we agree.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19420	The next item is the speech by Mr Wöginger. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19442	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! High house! In the context of this budget accompanying law, we also decide, as has been mentioned many times, on the article concerning a separate fund for relief measures resulting from disasters abroad. We are thus responding to the flood disaster in Southeast Asia, creating the conditions for the money to flow quickly and unbureaucraticly in such disasters. No matter how directly and directly such violence can happen to us Austrians and how important such measures are, we regret to see the number of victims known everywhere. It will make it possible to make up to €100 million annually available to the affected countries and aid organisations in the event of disasters abroad for emergency and reconstruction aid. Our government has already activated this aid fund on the occasion of the tsunami disaster as the first project and has secured a financing target of €34 million to three years. Many relief organizations, such as the Red Cross, the Fire Department, Caritas or the “Neighbor in Emergency” are always in use tirelessly for people in distress. So did the devastating flood disaster at the end of last year, which calls for aid operations up to months and years. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all those assistants who often work for people in need using their own lives. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Bucher.]] In my role as an active red-crust employee, I am naturally busy with this matter from the beginning. I would like to underline the importance of such disaster funds by a few figures and facts of the use of the Red Cross in the Tsunami area. This is the biggest aid action since the Balkan crisis. The Austrian Red Cross has already used €7 million in the first acute phase. In addition, 60 tons of medicines, 270 tons of hygiene packages, medical goods worth €450, auxiliary goods worth €930 000, transport and drinking water treatment facilities and the team worth €1.5 million. 22 return flights were accompanied by red-cross doctors and 40 emergency patients and around 100 other patients were cared for. All in all, the Red Cross has been on the side of the Red Cross since the 26th century. On December 60 women workers were sent to work on the ground, and another 64 were in charge at airports. By the year 2010 the Red Cross will still spend €25 million on aid for this flood disaster. This short extract from the ongoing deployment illustrates the need for international assistance and support for each country. Austria is making an exemplary effort with this fund, and I therefore ask for your consent.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19494	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19515	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In short, two articles of this budget-accompaniment law. One is Article 2 concerning the free transfer of movable federal assets. These are the drinking water plants which were provided or put into service during the aid measures on the occasion of the tsunami disaster, on the basis of the legal basis on the one hand and, of course, through a particularly rapid action by the Austrian federal army on the other. Now, by the competent authority in Sri Lanka, we have been told to leave these plants, which are 30 years old, but which have been completely obsolete in 1995 to Sri Lanka. The situation there is stabilised, the need for drinking water is there. This is to be done now, including the provision of the equipment necessary for the operation of the facilities. In sum, an amount of approximately € 188,000 is to be estimated as costs for this. I do not think it would be a problem in this House to make such a decision. Article 3 concerning the sale of federal shares at Linz Gesellschaft mbH Airport: It holds the federal government 40 percent of the company. The remaining 60 percent are divided into the city of Linz on the one hand and Upper Austria on the other. Now the federal government is to take up its 40 percent share in the country of Upper Austria and in the city of Linz. An appropriate assessment has been carried out. There is also a similar agreement, so that the shares for Linz and Upper Austria will then amount to 50 percent each. That – and that seems to me worth mentioning – is not affected by the area as such, which will continue to remain in federal possession. It is about 65 hectares. It is also to be mentioned that a military flight operation is taking place here. As is the case so far, the airport company will continue to use this area belonging to the federal government or continue to use it in accordance with the existing lease agreement. So far, so good. This, I think, will certainly not cause any problems with the decision-making process. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19553	The next item is the speech by Mr Wimmer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19574	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Auer, you can turn it and turn it around as you want, we are dealing today with a budget-accompanied law, which is in fact none! Mr Stummvoll has brought in a new facet here today. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] Mr Stummvoll has spoken today about the fact that there is a budget-accompaniment law and that there is a real budget-accompaniment law. It's a little bit like the court council. There is a court council and a real court council. – Be it as it is, my very appreciated ones Ladies and gentlemen: Such a presentation would normally have to be accompanied by the budget submitted. That is not the case, and therefore our criticism. I think there would be a lot more issues to address, such as unemployment. This has already been addressed today. Mr Bucher spoke here about Polemik. But, very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen, 360 000 people are without work. 360 0000 people find no work in Austria! Given that one speaks of polemics, that is, I believe, self-evident. There is already a question of where the countermeasures should be taken to combat this dramatic labour market situation or to counteract this labour market situation. The 11 million € proposed in the 2006 budget are really just a drop on the hot stone. The question also arises where, for example, the measures that could stimulate economic growth. It is unavoidably said that we can achieve the three percent of GDP, but in reality we have not achieved this three percent economic growth since the 1990s. I don't want to talk about the F&E quota at all. We are still European final light. We are to be found at least in the back third, and there would be a lot to do, too. To the template itself: Of course, we agree to the establishment of a foreign disaster fund. There is no doubt about this at all. Who is supposed to have something against overfitting two drinking water treatment plants? We have nothing, of course, against a sale of the 40 percent federal shares that now take over the country and the city of Linz. In a budget accompanying law, however, these proposals, ladies and gentlemen, have not lost anything.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19625	The next item is Mrs Lentsch's speech. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19647	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! These budget-accompanied laws are really manageable, because we are dealing with only six of them in the 2006 budget. This shows very clearly that the reform period has become smaller. We can all remember – and it has already been mentioned today – that we also had up to a hundred and more precisely 98 budget accompanying laws to adopt. But in the sixth year of this federal government a lot has already been done of that where we have not come to a green branch with the SPÖ. The current budget accompanying laws show very clearly in which direction we want to change Austria. First example: The establishment of an emergency aid fund abroad. It is true that we are committed to helping other countries that are not as good as us. Even if the tsunami disaster has been almost forgotten again and the television cameras have been removed, the pictures of this terrible disaster will probably remain in our minds for a long time. The many Austrian stakeholders are already taking care of this. We mourn with these families and hope that one or the other will still be found alive! I think we can be really proud that we can help Austrians with the decision of this law everywhere in the world. The people's willingness to donate is also an obligation for us to help with public funds. We cannot leave both the caritas and “neighbor in need” there alone. Of course, private initiatives are also needed, and I just give you a positive example: ==References====External links==* Official website April a benefit concert for the tsunami victims in Sri Lanka on Esterhazy Castle, and we have already sold so many cards in advance that we can pay a house over the “curer” at the level of € 10,000. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] A second positive example is the free release of two drinking water treatment plants in Southeast Asia. [[Abg. Dr. Niederweiser: Was that all the ÖVP gave to help?]] Please? These are the Burgenische ÖVP women, a sub-organisation of the ÖVP, one of six, and I think that 12 000 € are very much for us! How much have you donated, Mr. Niederwieser?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19695	The next item is the report by Mr Finz, State Secretary. – Mr State Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19717	Madam President. High house! Mr Matznetter once again drew a comparison between the EU 25 and then criticized us for being behind our growth data. I would have expected a serious comparison from an expert. - Why? The new member states have only been since the 1st century. May 2004 in the European Union, and they are not yet fully covered by the European stability rules, because they naturally have an economic recovery process to do. You have very good growth data, but you have to say that they also have very bad deficit data. Poland still has a deficit of about five percent. That's why I can't compare. I can only compare countries with the same framework conditions, and this applies to the euro area. Based on the latest data from the Commission of the European Union, we have a growth of 2.5 percent in 2005 and 2006. How high is the growth of all countries throughout the euro area for the year 2005? – It is 2.3 percent, and for the year 2006, the value is 2.4 percent. So Austria is above the cut with its value. What else should we say about this? For the deficit figures, we have a value of minus 1.9 percent and minus 1.7 percent respectively in 2005 and 2006. What is the value of the eurozone? Minus 2.3 percent for 2005 and minus 1.8 percent for 2006. Our value is better than the average. As far as the debt rate is concerned, we have a value of 63.6 percent and 63.1% respectively. What is the value of the eurozone? – 70.7% and 69.7%. – This comparison makes us sure! And we will continue this discussion tomorrow. Mrs Lunacek, you have asked who controls the fund. – I have already answered this question in committee: The Tsunami Fund is an independent fund and, like any other euro, is subject to full control by the Court of Auditors. I spoke to President Moser on this matter. At the same time, he is the Secretary-General of INTOSAI, an association of the national accounting courts of 140 countries that are united there, and he will, for example, agree with the Indonesian Court of Auditors that the use will really be checked on the ground. I do not think that it is necessary to set up parallel controls or other control bodies in addition to auditing the Court of Auditors, because that does not make sense. The Court of Auditors is functionally an institution of Parliament and it will examine it and submit these reports. To ex-minister Strasser: He is still in office and will present a report on his activities with the Foreign Minister in the second half of April. Mrs Rossmann! - She's not here now, unfortunately. [[Abg. Rossmann: Yes!]] Yes, there she is! I consider the annual standard model for national teachers to be a progress, it is a significant improvement. If there is still a need for improvement, we will take this into account. For the whole federal service we deal with a new employee service right and then also with the remuneration questions, and there are many wishes. We have noted these questions, and we will look at them. Mrs. F. Miklauch is doing this with me, and I think it is in good hands with us. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] Mr Niederweiser once again raised the question: What about the primary school teacher remuneration and the AHS teacher remuneration? – We have two completely different rights of service. There are also different terms of appointment – and that is what you have to say – as well as the qualifications in the salary. Of course, we have the figures, but it is unfair to select individual aspects and compare them. We strive for equal pay for equal use, but there are different conditions. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19759	The next item is the speech by Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19781	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We will start tomorrow with negotiations on the 2006 budget. This is the seventh budget of this new federal government, ladies and gentlemen, and we can also be proud to note that there has been a real trend in budgetary policy since 2000. Despite the many measures and a total tax relief in the years from 2003 to 2005, at an amount of €4 billion, the tax and tax ratio has been reduced to 40.6 percent, and it is particularly important that we have been able to reduce the Maastricht deficit to 1.7 percent. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It has already been pointed out by my previous speaker that the budget accompanying law is a slim law. I would just like to point out the establishment of this disaster relief fund abroad: 100 million € in budget resources can be made available per year, and the management of this fund is carried out through the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Federal Government ultimately decides on the use of these funds for each single disaster. Another point is the free transfer of movable federal assets. They all know that the Austrian federal army in these crises, too, In the case of the United Kingdom, the Commission has taken the view that the aid granted by the A quota of up to 80 people for drinking water treatment with technical equipment and technical equipment was in use in the Sri Lankan disaster area, and thanks to this rapid use it was possible to provide an emergency supply of drinking water. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Two drinking water treatment plants, which were finally in operation, are now to be left at the site of operation. The equivalent is about 188 700 €. This is an important aid project, and I think we have made a valuable contribution to people in this crisis region.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19820	The next speaker was Mrs Machne. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19841	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! High house! We are voting today on the current budget accompanying law, which will give us the opportunity to help us particularly quickly and efficiently in the event of disasters abroad. With the establishment of a fund managed by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Federal Government can respond immediately to the international calls for assistance after a disaster has occurred. With the retroactive device per 1. January 2005 and a donation of up to €100 million, we can currently help in the new flood disaster in Southeast Asia. Our federal army, many aid organizations and, I think, all Austrians have done a lot to ease the need. The further earthquake has again cost many victims, and we must not stop helping. Our Federal Government is also authorized to leave the federal assets of € 188 730 free of charge in Sri Lanka, and this is mainly about drinking water treatment plants. In addition, the Wage Law and the State Contract Teacher Act are amended. In itself, this change in law is a continuation of the annual standard model that has been successfully under way since 2001. Since we are also in the middle of an educational discussion – PISA thank you! . I would like to expressly point out the excellent primary schools in our district in East Tyrol. I can also say that the main school in our valleys is very important and that it allows children to stay at home for as long as possible. Main schools with us have a very high level, PISA certainly does not meet us, and our children then have the opportunity to attend a federal high-level gymnasium, a professional school such as the HAK, the HTL, the HLA or the hotel specialist school. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Recently, I was attended by a virgen high school class in Parliament. I have of course also had an educational discussion with the teachers and students, and both teachers and students have confirmed to me that the whole school or all day school forced by you, ladies and gentlemen from the opposition would be a real horror. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I also believe that every school should decide autonomously how much afternoon care it needs is the right and necessary, and here there are certainly huge differences between city and country. I think the path of our wife. Minister Gehrer is the right one. – Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19902	The next speaker was Mrs Tamandl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19923	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! As a start to the budgetary negotiations in the coming days, this government template is probably a symbol of the entire budget, with which the path of great economic success, combined with great social justice, will continue in Austria. You, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, but especially the SPÖ colleagues, are constantly complaining about packaging today rather than dealing with the good content of these six laws. As we have already heard, it is much less than two years ago. This reminds me of the first reading of the budget, where you have been more concerned with the budget speech of Mr Grasser than with the content of the budget itself. With a targeted budget, ladies and gentlemen, a good future for Austria will continue to be built, and it should not always be so that we work for national social justice, solidarity and so on that we weigh future generations in security and prosperity, but we should also work for international solidarity. That is why I believe that the foreign disaster fund law, which we decide today, is an important matter, because only rapid and targeted assistance, which can provide immediate development or project-related emergency aid, is really a just and beneficial aid, and Austria is doing the right thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19953	The next speaker was Mr Dr Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e19975	Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I could now explain with similar arguments to those of my group's colleagues why I am in favour of the budget-accompaniment law. I have also listened to what Mr Matznetter and his colleagues have to say. [[Abg. DDr. Deweiser: So then you really didn't listen!]] However, I would rather take this opportunity to ask the question whether the quality and performance of a Member, all Members of this House, can only be measured by the intensity and duration of their speeches. I tell you – hand to heart – that I have the impression very often that just so later, everyone here hastens at this speaker's desk to say something briefly, because there are some rankings and you get a problem yourself if you may be the last one with them. [[Abg. May. Trunk:... Your problem!]] . I am telling you, Mrs Colleague, why I mention this. I also believe – and this should be an appeal to the Presidents of Parliament, to the clubmen, but also to the chief editors and editors – that one should stop with this classbook mentality and - if so - represent the performance of Members in other forms. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that we all prefer to read a good short article rather than a bad long article – and certainly not many the same short less good articles. I have once looked at these rankings in recent years and I have come to believe that a certain Volker Kier was a top rider three times in a row, a certain Helmut Peter was just behind it, and a Thomas Barmüller was also relatively often represented. - Yeah, where are they now? [[Cheerfulness with the ÖVP.]] That is why, I believe, I question this type of quality assessment! And I invite all of you – including you, Mrs Trunk, all those who are responsible for this media point out that we are very much in favour of performance control, but think that it is too easy to establish this only with regard to the intensity and duration of debates. We should work together to stop this classbook mentality.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20036	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20058	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! In the context of these budget accompanying laws, we also have the amendment of the foreign disaster fund law, an amendment that is absolutely necessary. We all followed the tsunami disaster: Thousands of fates of thousands of people – women and children – have touched us, and thousands of people have donated in Austria. Mr Niederwieser, you asked my colleague whether the action of the Burgenländer-Women was the only one in the ÖVP. – As a Tyrolean, you should actually know that the ÖVP women in the Imst district have brought together more than €40 000 with a donation campaign, and I expect you to be interested across all party borders – then you should know that. [[Complaints with the EIA and representatives of the Free Trade Unions]] In my opinion, however, it is not the right time to criticize each other here. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! – The lamp is already starting to flash. – It is necessary to put these 100 million per year of emergency aid into reconstruction. This funding of the Fund is ensured by a law of overrun, by the use of the funds – and that is crucial! – is decided in each individual case by our Federal Government. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that the measures in the budget accompanying law, including in the packaging, not only in the content, are necessary and correct. It would be good and right if the opposition would also agree to this draft.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20097	Mr Neugebauer spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20120	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. The Landeslehrer-Servicesgesetz, which has been addressed several times today, has been revolutionary since 2001, because it brings something completely new in the absence of previous service laws, namely the inclusion of the aspects of the entire annual working time – an annual standard model, which also takes into account other secondary services of pedagogical activity outside teaching alone in the class. That is why other service models, which refer exclusively and in isolation to the evaluation of teaching activities, are not worse! The vote, Mr Brosz, which carried out our compulsory school teacher union, has resulted in a 55 percent participation of 71 percent for this annual standard model. We have put great emphasis on the fact that this first-time Internet vote is clean over the stage – it has also been accompanied externally. And the colleagues told me that access to the vote was achieved only by entering first names and surnames as well as by the staff number quoted by you, then one was led to a second platform, on which the vote – not understandable! - has been carried out. We have received a total of nine complaints, as I have been told, in Austria: obviously due to incorrect data input, for example the number; in one case, a colleague of several staff numbers is likely to have served. This has been the case in Upper Austria, and there is, of course, a disciplinary procedure, because you cannot act with foreign personnel numbers. In fact, it is important that this model is also a solid model because, in connection with the teaching obligation, possible overtime potentials are offset by employment in the equivalent. I think this is an essential matter. Finally, for the missing evaluation: The Court of Auditors has examined economics, Professor Altgericht has conducted a case study, which by the way has also resulted in this assessment being achieved with the ten times € 70 for the class-leading teacher or class board, because in fact this individual dot would be system-wide in the annual standard model. But in the end this was also the social partnership agreement, which Dr. Niederwieser also spoke about. Mr Matznetter's speech was controversial in that he meant: Although there's nothing in there, I agree. – I agree because there is substance in this! [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP and congratulation with representatives of the liberals.]] 20. 17
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20161	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. A final word on the part of the reporting is not required. I ask the ladies and gentlemen to take a seat. We shall vote on the draft law in 829 of the supplements. Hiezu is in favour of a separate vote by Mr Brosz. There is also a request for a separate vote by Mr Matznetter. I shall therefore vote first of all on the parts affected by the request for separate vote and finally on the remaining parts of the draft law, which have not yet been voted on. We shall proceed to a separate vote on Article 1 as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this part of the bill to a sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 2 as amended by the Government's proposal. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree with this part of the draft law to have a positive sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Article 3 as amended by the Government template. I ask those members of the House who are for this part of the draft law to have a sign of approval. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall therefore proceed to a separate vote on Article 4 as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this part of the bill to give a corresponding sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is only because Gusenbauer is not there!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: (in the direction of SPÖ) Now you may follow the conscience, not the chairman!]] We shall also proceed to a separate vote on Article 5 as amended by the Government's proposal. I ask those Members of the House who agree to this part of the draft law to give a sign in this regard. – It is also unanimous... – Excuse me! [[In the face of the no longer standing Members of the Greens, there is a contradiction in the hall.]] This is largely accepted. [[Abg. Mandak:... take a look!]] We shall now proceed to a separate vote on Article 6 as amended by the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who vote in favour of this part of the bill to be a sign of confirmation. – This is also accepted by the majority. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law, together with the title and receipt in the version of the Government template. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent to this sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We therefore come to the third reading. I ask those Members who are also in third reading for this draft law to be a sign of approval. – It is also the majority. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:19:36]] 6. Point report by the Committee on Budgets on Amendment No 564/A by Mr Dr Michael Spindelegger, Mr Mag. Kurt Gaßner, Dr. Reinhard Eugen Bösch, Mag. Terezija Stoisits, colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Employment of Parliamentary Staff (Parliament Staff Act) (838 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20256	We're now on the 6th. Agenda item. There is no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Spindelegger. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20283	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Let me make three brief comments on Parliament's Staff Act in 3 minutes. Note number one: Since 1992 we as Members of the National Council have the opportunity to employ a parliamentary staff. Today, after 13 years, we can say that this institution has not only proved itself, but that we all need a parliamentary employee today. The success of Members is often linked to the commitment of parliamentary staff. At this point, I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament who I know, who work very hard and who, so to speak, work in the background for the success of the honourable Member. [[As a result of this, the European Parliament will be able to give its opinion on the proposal for a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the ……]] [[Abg. Mandak:... employees inside too!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Secondly, I would like to stress that we have such a good climate in the House on these issues that we have a very good basis for discussion in the Advisory Board, Mr Gaßner, so that we can make such a request together. This also shows that we can work well together on this basis, and we should continue to do so in the future. A warm thanks, in particular, to the participants of the Advisory Council for Members of Parliament here in Parliament! [[Congratulations with representatives of the ÖVP and SPÖ.]] Thirdly, ladies and gentlemen, let me also take a look at the future! I believe that after 13 years of the establishment of this Parliamentary staff, we should enter an evaluation phase and look in principle at how other countries deal with this, as others do today with the new tasks that we in Austria, too, have to deal with as parliamentarians in this House: We are a member of the European Union, we have just heard from the President today that there is a new report from every Federal Minister on which projects are concerned within the framework of the European Union. We'll have to deal with this in the future. We also have new media to look after. Especially the e-mails that each of us receives are so numerous – and their number will rise in the future – that we also need to get done with it. I therefore think that we should be able to take advantage of each other's opportunity to reflect on how, in comparison with other countries, we can imagine the future of parliamentary staff's work and develop joint proposals. I would like to thank all of you very much that we can unanimously adopt such a novel.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20335	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gäßner to speak. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20356	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If one lets the revision happen today, it is now almost unusual for me to give unconditional consent to my previous speaker. [[Cheerfulness in the hall.]] I note that I am only commissioned... – Mr Klubobmann, if we really are in a dialogue and not just in command expenditure. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Could you make it more often!]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who gives you the orders?]] I am not chairman of this committee, but only responsible for this function. This committee shall be chaired by the President of the National Council, who shall only be on the verge. I was also very surprised when Mr President Khol said I should do so. I am happy to do so for our staff, for our parliamentary staff, but I am also happy to do so because there is a very good mood in this committee, as my previous speaker has said. I would also like to thank our parliamentary staff, as far as I know them, but I am sure that they do not respect each other in any way because they are demanded by all of us. It is also essential to say that we should take in this area, these employees as a whole, and continue to consider with them how we develop this profession, so to speak: from the perspective of the profession to further training, training opportunities for our employees; I would like to do just as much. In my opinion, we should get together very soon and develop further ideas for this. In this sense, I am pleased to agree to a four-party request here. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20416	Mr Bösch spoke as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20438	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we liberals agree with this request, which essentially has to do with the fact that our parliamentary staff are not treated worse than other employees in an employee relationship. We would like to thank our Members for the work done by our parliamentary staff throughout the years, and we also welcome the proposal made by Mr Spindelegger to further develop this professional image and the work of the parliamentary employee. How necessary this is, if we are to imagine today how to cope with the fullness of the work that is being done on our Members without parliamentary staff. We can't do it any more today. That is why it is necessary to further develop this work aid and this work experience. Of course, they are available for this.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20474	The next speaker was Mr Brosz. I'll give it to him.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20495	Mr President. It's a four-party union. We Greens too agree to this law. I also believe that the development of recent years has justified this step, but I would also like to draw attention to a point which is in the context of funding for political work and democratic work. I do not really think it a target that, in connection with the financing of the parties, which often gets into the trap, it is relatively easy for the public to come up with populist proposals. This is actually more true of the countries than the Federation, where we have a different discussion. It is also acceptable and necessary for policy to say that Parliamentary, political work must cost money to a certain extent, that it may cost money and that it must also be paid where it is justified. Of course, it is always tempting to criticize, as this criticism automatically comes very well: Those who express themselves that this is too much get relatively wide space in the media. To sum up, we should defend this system, because I consider other systems in which it goes very strongly towards economic support, lobbying, sponsoring, to be far more problematic than those we have here. In this respect, this is also an appeal to the House and the parties themselves to try to have a fair and appropriately weighted discussion here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20533	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We therefore come to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 838 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:28:07]] 7. Point Report of the Budget Committee on the Government Template (828, e.g._Other Organiser Federal Law amending the Federal Finance Act 2005 (BFG-Novelle 2005) (839 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20585	We're now on the 7th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. First speaker, Mr Matznetter. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20614	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! The second proposal we have to deal with today is a change to the Federal Financial Act 2005. That is to say, four months after the decision-making process, we have to make repairs on the 2005 budget. I would like to point out that we had a very different budget in the past. If I can recall – and I start with the positive one for the Minister of Finance – the 2003 budget was one which, I say, was very clearly respected, but also one which came to its decision only in the middle of 2003 or only at the end of the first half of 2003. The 2004 budget execution was a disaster. Although it was still claimed here that it would have been a point landing, unfortunately the execution amounted to more than €1.3 billion, almost 20 billion schilling, next to it – at least an amount five times as high as the alleged deviation in the 1995 budget execution as a new reason. [[Abg. Neudeck: Promille! Promille!]] After all, at the time the newly baked chairman of the People's Party Wolfgang Schüssel gave us new elections, the elector has given us the right to do so. With Mr Grasser, this is not a problem at all. In this respect, one can say that a small improvement is to be seen, one tries to make appropriate adjustments in a timely manner. I would just like to say that although we do not have a fundamental objection to some of these provisions, we did not agree to the 2005 budget and therefore do not intend to improve, or to improve, the agreement. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20662	The next speaker was Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20684	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Matznetter is really not to be envied today, because with this slalom course he is supposed to advance a straight line to the public. [[Abg. Neudeck: Not only today!]] It's a little difficult. Mr Matznetter! Compared to the slalom course, which you drove today at the previous point and even now, a World Cup slalom is a laser beam, I have to tell you quite openly. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! If money is needed for research, if it is due to unforeseeable disasters or to compulsory school buildings and new school buildings, then you have to respond to it. Mr Matznetter has declared that it would be welcome in and for himself, because it would be necessary to make adjustments in a timely manner. You can agree. Ladies and gentlemen! I am bringing to this government template, on this amendment to the Federal Finance Act 2005, an amendment tabled by Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn and colleagues. This is an amendment to the Government template concerning a federal law amending the Federal Finance Act 2005 (BFG-Novelle 2005) (828 of the Supplements). [[Abg. Mr Matznetter: Mr Colleague! How often is this changed? That's a slalom course!]] – Mr Colleague! Let's have a little time! The National Council wants to decide at second reading: 1. The following points 8 to 10 are inserted after paragraph 7 above; I can briefly explain the key points of these paragraphs. Point 8 concerns the establishment of an aspirant pool with 200 planning posts for newly trained executive staff in the Federal Ministry of Internal Affairs to increase flexibility in the management of new personnel. Point 9 concerns the establishment of an aspirant pool with 100 planning points for newly trained judicial guards in the Federal Ministry of Justice to increase flexibility in human resources management in the event of new receptions. Point 10 includes the provision that there is no obligation to post plans for officials of the Austrian Federal Railways up to a maximum of 200 if they are left to work to the Federal Ministry of Justice. Mr Matznetter! Otherwise, you will always call for an increase in security forces, an increase in justice. That is why I invite you to agree. We'll do it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20751	The amendment tabled by Mr Jakob Auer, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhornand colleagues are sufficiently supported, is involved in the negotiations. It was also distributed to the Members in accordance with Article 53 of the Rules of Procedure and is annexed to the Stenographical Protocol. [[Abg. Dr. Niederwieser: Where has he been distributed?]] The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20854	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20875	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My sincere participation: Mr. State Secretary alone at home – a lonely fate on the government bank. [[Abg. Neudeck: When everyone sits there, you say no one rules!]] I do not have to add anything to Mr Auer's statement. Their efforts to justify the x-te repair measure are against the measures which, as Mr Matznetter has formulated, are exclusively repair measures which would not have been necessary in the event of a serious and proper budget creation, except for the increased resources for the disasters. It would have been necessary, for example, to implement the commitments of the ÖVP, but also the FPÖ for 2005 – the SPÖ is in favour – which you recently made in the economic chamber election: measures to strengthen and boost small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] For example, projects for an effective labour market policy would have been important. It would have been necessary to promote safety and not an uncertainty policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Railways are to be used in justice. This is not the policy that we present ourselves under a concrete conceptual security policy. In the field of school and afternoon care and childcare, it would also be important to take the measures that Mrs Gehrer and Mrs. Gehrer give in the form of lip confessions, and then all raise the flag. It would be important in the sense of the afternoon and family justice to use budget resources in 2005 to implement these empty promises. [[Abg. Steibl: The facilities are available!]] But it would be important, above all, for the Federal Chancellor, who is always silent and is not there again, and for the Minister of Finance, to engage where there is a risk to the Republic, such as the Tohuwabohu around the stadium building in Klagenfurt. Today, for the first time after three years, the Federal Chancellor has issued three statements on stadium construction, which by the way were incompetent and not up-to-date. [[Abg. Scheibner: How much more should he give?]] At the heart of your policy is not man, but the worrying credo of your Minister of Finance, who – I quote Grasser – is famous for the success of Austrocapitalism. Group and capital interests are at the heart of and not human beings. Sincere participation of all Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20954	Mr Bucher, the next speaker, spoke. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e20990	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Melitta Trunk: Economy creates work – it should have talked about it, even with you. Mr Matznetter, you are in the Chamber of Commerce, representing small and medium-sized enterprises, and should therefore know the importance of the economy in our country, how important it is for the creation and maintenance of jobs. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: There the voters have already spoken!]] This federal government looks at the economy and seeks to ensure that the economy finds appropriate framework conditions for it to grow so that it can create jobs. And this confirms the successful work of this federal government. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The government has, unfortunately, failed, that's the problem!]] Therefore, you should consider carefully what you are giving to this speaker's chair. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: That is why Leitel rightly criticises what would be necessary!]] This BFG-Novelle contains two very important points: on the one hand, the padding of the disaster fund that we discussed before – I do not want to address the importance of this fund itself – and on the other hand, the creation of an aspirant pool, so that 200 important planning points for the Federal Ministry of the Interior and for the Federal Ministry of Justice are freed. That is to say, there are 200 important sites for maintaining security in our country, and this should be an agreement for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21059	The next speaker was Mrs Hagenhofer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21081	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr Jakob Auerhat said it contained more money for funding in this novel. Mr Auer, this is basically positive, so we see it. But we are always concerned about the question of distribution. If I then look more closely at the distribution of support for the economy, I insist that smaller and medium-sized enterprises get €75.5 million and the industry €161 million. That is, the double goes to the industry. If I look at what businesses in Austria, especially in rural areas, provide jobs in large numbers, then these are small and medium-sized enterprises. However, these are particularly disadvantaged in the funding provided by the Federal Government. Industry gets the double, and small and medium-sized enterprises get only € 75.5 million. Now we also need to know that small and medium-sized enterprises, which bring a great deal of quality production, cannot keep up with the industry in terms of research, but there is still an approach. They participate, that is already clear, but it has been forgotten that Austria has been able to raise quality in the European and non-European markets. As small and medium-sized enterprises would benefit, more money would be invested for them. That's what I want to say. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would also like to clear up with history that it is always said that the Federal Republic of Germany is so bad, there it looks terrible that they could not operate. [[Abg. Auer: This is their government!]] - No, no, wait! My colleague, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, has said that economic policy is not a music box. You said that! We all know that in the years 2001 to 2003, in the eurozone – and this includes Germany as well as Austria – economic growth was almost 1 percent. Therefore, it is not possible to take over from Germany, which has taken over a country twice as large as Austria, namely the GDR... [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. stupid.]] So please, the situation of Germany is not so since this year or since last year, but the I agree with your statement that economic policy is not a music box, but then you should not put Germany negative. [[Abg. Dr. Stummful: I spoke of the EU-25!]] You know very well that around 50 percent, exactly 49.9 percent, all exports go from Austria to Germany. We'd be happy if the Germans weren't going to lose us any more. [[Abg. Dr. Stumbling: That's it!]] It is not a question of always defaming a trading partner, in every debate we have here, by telling him how bad he is. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: We criticize the red-green government!]] Again: Germany has taken over a country, namely the GDR, which is twice the size of Austria, and this GDR was on the ground. In 11 years this former communist country was built. It was not provided by the former coal in this respect. Your chancellor Kohl has not prepared Germany as much so that there are not as big problems as they are now. If you drive to the GDR, you will see how much money Germany has pumped into it and is still pumping into it so that we can export Austrians to Germany! [[Abg. Wittauer: What did Schröder pay you, Mrs. Colleague?]] You should also consider this when talking about a trading partner.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21188	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21220	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I was unable to follow what the significance of the SME debate should be in the context of the Federal Finance Act. But it may be that in your amendment, the ÖBB personnel dominate so much that the splitting of the ÖBB sub-companies goes so far that there can only be more talk about small and medium-sized enterprises there. To the novelle itself: In principle, it is certainly an opportunity to take a short look at the practical budgetary policy, especially the budget implementation of the Federal Government. In recent months, we have had constructive debates in various bodies across all political borders, to what extent double budgets are a sensible matter or not. In our opinion, double budgets are only useful if they are inevitable, otherwise, as in every civilised European economic country, we should decide on the budgets in autumn and then implement them accordingly. On the basis of the fifth novel, we see that things happen again and again, which are not predictable even in a shorter period of time, will be They may object, but this is only true for longer periods of time. It is not understandable to make us understand – that we will be able to recapture tomorrow – which requires us to decide a 2006 budget in the spring of 2005, just because it fits better into your political and economic electoral cycles, because then you want to be more comfortable in the autumn and the turn of the year. Or is it already the case that there is a wise perspective behind that, and at least if you have no government anymore, you have a preliminary budget? – I have no idea, but it is certainly not economically meaningful. There is no European country in which this is done, and the EU Presidency will not be able to serve as an excuse for you, because all those who have so far held the EU Presidency have also decided their budget normally in autumn, including Austria in 1998. It's an unicum, what's going on here and what's to be picked up tomorrow. On the basis of these novelties, we see how important it would be to pursue budgetary policy with the right perspective. On the matter itself: Despite previous criticisms, we agree in third reading, because this proposal to make real money available to the disaster funds in contrast to TOP 5 in this year. We see that, that is not predictable under the line. I am saving myself now to continue to list the disadvantages of this novel, which we already recognize – you will see this in the separate vote and in our voting behaviour in this regard. Nevertheless, we say: Okay, such a disaster can't be foreseen. International solidarity is of course a matter of course. It is necessary to secure money in this budget. In principle, however, you will certainly not escape us in the medium-term budget planning and in what is useful in the short term in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21262	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21284	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I have to make a small correction on Mrs Hagenhofer's comments. Read the stenographic protocol of my speech: I have not defamed our important trading partner Germany, but because Mr Matznetter addressed the growth rates, I have quoted from the last economic forecast of the EU Commission and I have shown that the EU Commission says for this year: Austria is a little better than the EU-25 average next year, and Germany is much worse. This was simply the data and facts from the EU Commission's economic forecast, but no differentiation from Germany. For colleagues Matznetter, Jakob Auershon expressed a certain compassion. He meant that Matznetter had to try to make a straight line out of the SPÖ zigzag course. Mr Matznetter, honestly, I am sometimes not quite sure whether you really believe what you are saying here or just have to say, in order to fulfill an expectation of your own party. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Auer drove a slalom with his amendment!]] I think your main problem is your own party. But that's your problem and not mine. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I am therefore actually speaking on this issue, ladies and gentlemen, because this amendment also contains an over-performing authorisation of almost 100 per cent as regards the construction budget of the Parliamentary Directorate. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy]] Since I am the chairman of the building committee and know that Madam President Prammer is the chairman of the committee responsible for the redeployment of the Chamber, I would like to say the following: We are really acting there according to best knowledge and conscience, according to the principles of economy, efficiency and economy. We were simply convinced that if we do such a conversion, we need to set up a multimedia room in the visitor foyer today, that we have to make a permanent exhibition. I just wanted to say that because it is a doubling of the overrun authority, and I very much hope that we have a four-party consensus here.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21339	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21361	Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to comment on Mrs Hagenhofer's comments. Mrs. Hagenhofer, you have taken care of the costs of reunification in the Federal Republic of Germany. You said that required a crazy financial effort. That's right. I must tell you, however, that this effort is roughly equal to the burden we have after 30 years of socialist finance ministers. I just wanted to say that. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] While it was admirable that the former Chancellor Kohl has brought about the unification of East and West Germany, we are at least as admirable that after this budget disaster, which you left us, we have begun to consolidate the budget. You must have mentioned that. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] But I didn't even want to talk about it. As a matter of fact, Mr Matznetter, I agree with you that I did not want to speak for a moment because I have found what Mr Maier said that not all two-minute speeches should be kept on a subject. However, I wanted to remind colleagues of the opposition that, with Parliament's consent, this Federal Government is doing something to improve staff scarcity in the security field, namely that 200 executive and 100 judicial guard planning posts are virtually new, by no longer counting those who are trained on the planned plan posts. We have repeatedly experienced that there are several police students working at Gendarmerieposten or police posts, but they return to school again, which does not allow a fixed work effort for time and for other reasons. This is now being improved. Now there are own training plans, and normal planning posts can also be used for normal working hours. This will improve the personnel situation. That's what I wanted to say, that's why I spoke. In fact, however, what Mr Maier said is right: We shouldn't just talk for the barter list.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21419	As the next speaker, Mr Zinggl. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21440	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! A change to the Financial Act concerns the liability of the Republic when the Federal Museums borrow works of art from abroad. This is now to be changed, which is revolving. I think most people don't know what that is at all. The government parties have probably thought that if the Minister has considered something, that will be the case. I think, in turn, that the Minister may not know what that means. She relies on the directors of the museum, and they know exactly what this is, because the Finally, want to increase their empires once again. – They are also forced to do so by the sloppy distribution. In their cock struggles, in which they strive to get as much art from abroad as possible, they had a small obstacle so far, and that was just this one-billion-mounted limit. This is the question of who is taking advantage of this sum. If you got into it very quickly and you could work very quickly, then you got the supplement, and the others had the lookout. What was the success of the whole? – Disputes, disputes, disputes. We know this from the museum landscape. The Minister said don't argue, then we'll just change the financial law. If this is so easy and Parliament agrees, the museum directors have said. I am sure that Parliament will agree, the Minister will have thought, because most people are not interested in it anyway, and those who are interested will not understand it. And with that, I think she's right. At the end of the day, in turn, we have less opportunity to look after the common cultural heritage, because unlike the private people who are liable for it if they are hiding something from abroad, our museum directors have all the possibilities to deal with it, but if something happens, the community is liable for it. And that is called a reasonable museum policy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21483	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Schools. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21504	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! This call by Mr Zinggl on the promotion of the insurance industry has, thank God, found no contradiction. It will be good for the state to be liable for what it owns, or for what it uses, for it is largely its own responsibility, without even making insurances, because ultimately it is only a matter of collectively dealing with what is at risk. That is why this solution is certainly not only a reasonable one, but also a very economical and useful one, as our government always does. The key to the development and renovation of Parliament is economical and useful. The €13.5 million we decide today to finance the expansion and also the activity of the Convention work are very well-designed money because we improve the conditions for our guests and visitors in the High House. The building condition of the High House is now largely in order. The house looks good, the access is built, and on 26th. October, if we can celebrate 50 years of freedom from foreign soldiers, our house will also shine beautifully. The only thing that won't look good then is this plenary room. The only thing that's going to be bad together is the armchairs on which we sit. I hope that we will all be sitting on it for a long time, so I would ask our Parliamentary Directorate and the President to ask that this plenary room be renovated soon. [[It is a pleasure to the ÖVP and to representatives of the Freeman and the SPÖ.]] By the way, I would like to thank the last sentence of Parliament's staff, who, despite the construction site, are always able to bring this House to its top and make it a representative meeting room for our Austrian Parliament. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21552	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the draft law in 839 of the supplements. Mr Auer, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment. There is also a request for a separate vote by Mr Brosz. Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter, Mr Matznetter's request for a separate vote. I am therefore going to vote first on the parts affected by the amendment or amendment mentioned and on the request for separate vote according to the classification of the draft law and, finally, on the remaining parts and the title and receipt. We shall be voting separately on paragraphs 1, 4, 5, 6 lit. c and 7 as amended by the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this part of the draft law to a sign in this regard. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on paragraphs 2, 3 and 6. a and b as amended by the Committee's report. I am looking for those members of the House who agree to this part of the bill to have a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. Deputies Auer, Dipl.-Ing. Mr Principal, ladies and gentlemen, tabled an amendment or amendment which concerns the insertion of new paragraphs 8 to 10 and the amendment to point 8 to point 11. Whoever gives his consent to this request, I would like to ask for an appropriate sign. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. We shall also proceed to a separate vote on paragraph 11 (new) concerning the Parliament's Directorate of Planning as amended by the Committee's report. And I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their approval to this part of the draft law to a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, I come to the vote on the remaining parts of the draft law and the title and receipt of the Committee's report. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to a positive sign. – This is adopted by a majority. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at the third reading of this draft law, agree to a sign of approval. – This is mostly the case. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. [[20:58:33]] 8. Point First reading: Request by Mr Anton Heinzl, colleagues on a federal law amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act 2000 (EIA-G 2000) (537/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21651	We're on the 8th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate immediately. President. — The debate is closed. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21678	Mr President. High house! The revision of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act was one of the first “speed-kills” laws of the blue-black coalition in 2000. These were essentially two changes, with which, as I believe, the proven EIA law was truly demolded: For the first, the thresholds for implementing an EIA have, in part, been really raised very massively. Secondly, party rights were greatly restricted by the introduction of a pseudo-EIA in the guise of a so-called simplified procedure. In this case, there is no environmental impact assessment by official or non-official experts or experts. There is only a summary assessment, which the competent authority shall list from the file documents. In addition, the current scheme ensures that in the simplified sham procedure, the regulatory re-control of the implementation of notice requirements is also removed. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I have already asked in two cases for both thresholds to be reduced and for a proper EIA to be carried out instead of the simplified procedure, first of all in the construction of wind turbines and second in the construction of livestock farms. In both project types, practice has shown that the current rules on authorisation procedures are no longer in time. First of all: Wind power plants are now so large that they really have a strong influence on their environment and quality of life. Recently, for example, in Germany, the first 5-megawatt wind turbine was in operation, which has a total height of 183 metres. In Austria, under the applicable law for the construction of this plant, which is almost 50 metres higher than the St. Stephen's Cathedral, no EIA procedure would have to be carried out. That one. Only when four plants of this giant type are put together, a simplified procedure must be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If approval procedures are carried out without involving the arrants, I understand the aggression that has led to the formation of many citizens' initiatives against wind turbines. With this, the image of wind power is permanently damaged as a truly great renewable energy form. I'm really sorry. Secondly, to the livestock farms, shortly: It is known that agriculture and forestry are largely excluded from the rules of the trade regulations and the authorisation procedures contained therein. For example, for the establishment and extension of stables of livestock holdings which are not subject to the EIA Law 2000, a construction procedure is often only necessary. However, in the construction process – we know that too – the environmental impact of the agricultural project on air, water and soil is not taken into account sufficiently. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It has now been shown that the exhaust air from stables in the immediate vicinity can lead to sustainable health damage. Recent scientific studies have also shown that the exhaust air from intensive animal husbandry is a possible means of disseminating the transmission of antibiotic-resistant health-damaging bacteria. I would like to make these investigations available to you if you do not give me faith. I therefore call for the reintroduction of the thresholds for the implementation of a proper EIA for livestock farms, as it was in force by the year 1999.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21748	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21770	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen! The EIA Act is a key pillar of Austrian environmental policy and has the great advantage of a single concentrated authorisation procedure for large projects. The 2005 Novellle makes the EIA law more flexible and more efficient. In order, for example, to be able to deal more quickly with agreements with international major events, the novelle was essential in 2005. Mr Heinzl's request passes at the heart of his responsibilities as a whole and is contradictory in itself. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I will bring this to your attention on concrete examples. Mr Heinzl, just as it seems to me to be a tradition, simply tries to rush on the farmers again. I will show you very specific examples of what is common in Austria as regards the EIA, how low the thresholds are, even when compared to our neighbouring country, the red-green-led Germany. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Interestingly, Mr Heinzl almost calls for a doubling of the threshold in a group, namely among the young people's places. In Austria there is a limit of 48 000 pieces, and Mr Heinzl calls for a limit of 84 000 pieces. I am not surprised that he wrote this off from Germany, because there, Mr Heinzl, the stocks are much larger. These comparisons can be continued: The threshold in Germany is 50 per cent higher in the case of pigs for fattening and for the sowing sites. Mr Heinzl, write Do not take a look at the German documents, but look at the Austrian ones, because they are excellent! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I find the SPÖ's behaviour in terms of eco electricity and renewable energy sources equally remarkable. You're saying wind energy is, but just the way you want it. But in the wind energy one will have to think about some things very well. First of all, the plant has to be able to stand wherever wind goes. Secondly, of course, we also need to consider what further problems there may be. However, with those arguments that you have put forward here, you will not be able to solve this problem. Instead, I call on you to step in to ensure that the eco-electric power law in the House can be implemented accordingly. It can't be that on the one hand, you ask for money for CHPs, where, as a result, fine dust can arise as a problem and I'm not sure whether all of them are equipped with particle filters, and on the other hand, just leave the new law here. Do it! I invite you to take the right path of the ÖVP in this area!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21840	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21861	Mr President. High house! Mr Heinzl! You meant it well, but you took the wrong direction. I know the problem with the windwheels: I'm also going through the area, and it's almost too much for me. Although something is positive for the environment, it does not necessarily have to be positive for the whole. But, of course, it is once again a complex situation of spatial planning. Therefore, we should do something in the spatial planning and not take the EIA as a problem solution. There is a fundamental energy problem: We need compensation energy for the windshields. It was a good business for a short time, but we hope to find a common solution in the eco-electric system. I am going to conform that it is very incisive for some people living nearby. You have to take care of that. Wind energy was a brilliant idea back then, but it may be the wrong direction. You should discuss that. But the EIA has less to do with it than you think. The second area: Of course, we can now proceed to the stables or agriculture. However, we will address these problems differently, because the EIA itself is not a hypocrisy. – I keep my mind on that. The EIA has involved more citizens' rights and more NGOs with its latest innovation. To solve this issue by means of the EIA is therefore also the wrong direction. There may be more to it in the animal welfare law and in other things than in the EIA, because this is a good law that we will continue to implement for the environment and for the people. I think that should be the direction. But we are still talking about it in committee, and I am looking forward to it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21898	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21919	Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Heinzl probably thinks it's good. Unfortunately, however, I also have to make critical comments. Mr Heinzl, one point on the EIA and on wind energy is already to be held: For a gravel plant, the distances in Lower Austria are, for example, 100 meters, one kilometer in wind turbines. If you look at the traffic movements at a gravel plant and a wind turbine, they are in no relation to the impact of the environment, both in terms of noise pollution and in terms of traffic – just to mention an example. In your proposal, that would mean that every single windmill would be subject to a full EIA duty. This is really not in the sense of the matter. Unfortunately, I have to hold that. As far as the EIA thresholds in the field of animal husbandry are concerned, I give you the right, especially as regards the developments in intensive animal stables, the resistance to antibiotics, the delivery of medicines via Gülle et cetera. So this is definitely an issue that cannot be completely closed down because, and this is known, in animal stocks of more than 400 breeding places, for example, usually increases significantly in the usual forms of drug use. In this connection, I would like to remind you of the animal stock limits that we had until 1994. They're far away from what you're proposing here, because you're actually just going back to the values before the last novel. From our point of view, that is not enough. You should discuss this in detail once for each individual species. I would also like to say this to Mr Hornek: Mr Hornek, an EIA procedure does not mean a shock to agriculture. This is totally nonsense, because that would mean that environmental impact assessment is also a shock in all other areas. It is a process of legal certainty for both sides, because the company must also have legal certainty that what it is doing – the plant it is building, the investment it is making – is sustainable that no problems arise, so that it is also on the safe side. Summa summarum: We will, of course, continue to discuss the proposal intensively, and I hope that we may also find a common strategy to resolve these issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e21959	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. – I ask to take a seat! I accept Amendment No 537/A to the Committee on the Environment. [[21:11:41]] 9. Point First reading: Parliament's motion for a resolution (Doc. Johann Maier, colleagues on a federal law amending the road traffic regulations – StVO (541/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22001	We come to item 9 of the agenda. We are going into the debate. President. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: Maier. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22028	Mr President. High house! As early as 2002, we discussed how the situation of midwives can be improved. We had the situation back then that veterinarians were better placed than midwives. Veterinarians were allowed to show a blue light, veterinarians were already at the time and are now excluded from certain provisions of the road traffic regulations. I personally think that we do not need to discuss the content of this initiative for long. I have already talked to Mr Mainoni today about this, and I hope that all the political groups in this House will join this legislative initiative in the next amendment to the road traffic regulation. What's this about? – It is simply about the fact that midwives, as well as doctors or persons employed in the graduated outpatient care service for the care of the home, are excluded during their use from the prohibition of holding and parking. In doctors there is a label for: ‘Employed doctor’. We should also achieve equality among midwives. [[Complementary of the Abg. Mandak.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This is a very small, banal story outside ideological discussions, and I hope you will follow our request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22067	The next speaker was Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22089	Mr President. High house! The midwives are an interesting topic. It is true that more and more midwives are in use, but more in rural areas and not in urban areas. In the rural area, you will hardly have a parking problem, and blue light is allowed. I'd rather turn this around: Let us also look at the veterinary doctors, also at the doctors and the others who have these derogations, more precisely how often they are abused. It should then be used when it makes sense and when actually a bet takes place. I see drivers in many areas, who have the doctor's shield in front, but who have a different activity. I would therefore look at this more critically. We'll take a look at this. If a midwife is in use, also a doctor, then this right should be respected, but in the rural area it is not necessarily necessary. We will look at this very critically and perhaps make a counter-proposal for the doctors and the other uses for the Population may be a little restricted and that's a little more audited.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22121	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22142	Ladies and gentlemen! In particular, midwives are an old tradition in rural areas, which has grown massively in recent years. Thank God, we say. Births and births are basically desirable, and solving the problem of road traffic, so that the midwives can park where they have to, is definitely a matter that we support. I believe that Mr Maier's request is going in the right direction, and we will also support it in the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22167	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. I agree with Amendment No 541/A to the Committee on Transport. The agenda is exhausted. [[21:16:19]] Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22202	I am still announcing that self-employed requests 568/A to 572/A have been tabled at today's meeting. Questions 2807/J to 2816/J were also raised.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-03-31-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00099_d7e22222	The next meeting of the National Council, which will concern business communications and allocations, will be convened at 9.16 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
