ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5597	Ladies and gentlemen! The meeting was opened. The Official Protocol of the 92. Meeting of 22. In December 2004, the European Parliament's Directorate remained unanswered and undisputed. Deputies Dr. Huainigg, Wimmer, Prehauser, Parnigoni, Spindelberger, Dr. Bleckmann and Dr. Van der Bellen have been reported as prevented. Representation of members of the Federal Government
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5628	For today's meeting, the Federal Chancellor's Office on the resolution of the Federal President concerning the representation of members of the Federal Government has issued the following communication: Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs Dr. Ursula Plassnikwill represent Günther Platter by the Federal Minister for the Defence of the State. Announcement of a declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5655	The Federal Chancellor has also announced his intention to make a statement according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. There is a request by five Members to refer to this declaration in accordance with § 81 para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure to hold a debate immediately. – Hiebei is the idea of a new Federal Minister and a new Secretary of State. The statement will take place immediately after the current hour before the entry into the agenda, the debate immediately thereafter. Is there any objection to this? - That's not the case. That is why we are doing so. Current hour
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5686	We are now starting our work with the current hour, this time with the topic: “The responsibility of the Federal Government for the crisis of education policy” First of all, Mr Broukal has spoken. His speaking time is 10 minutes. Mr Collegue, please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e5711	Mrs. Federal Minister! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! One can do about many things that ÖVP and FPÖ do in the government – or do not do, shared opinion, but not about one thing: Austria's education policy is a disaster! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Call the ÖVP: Well, go!]] [[Abg. Grandruck: Who says that?]] You alone, Mrs. Gehrer, are responsible for this disaster! [[Abg. Grossruck: You're a disaster!]] The universities have not been getting the money they need for years! And instead of flowering and growing, the universities have to think about how they quickly exclude young students from studying in brutal exams – not because they want to, but because they can no longer be different. But PISA beats everything: Austria's schools fall back internationally; they give fewer and less young people the skills and knowledge they need in order to survive. It's not a coincidence! In recent years, Mrs Gehrer, you have deleted every twelfth teacher's position and every tenth lesson. [[Abg. Amon: And how many students are there less?]] – 4 percent less pupils.12 percent less teachers, 10 percent less hours: [[Interlocutory calls from Mr Amon and Dr. Brinek]] You don't even have to pass the PISA test to know that something has changed to the worse. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] But the arguments for this were made very clear at the time: Learning less is better for young people; it's about teaching material convulsions and so on – these were the arguments! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: That's what the SPÖ called for!]] The truth was and is another: She, Mrs. Federal Minister, had to save money for the finance minister at the school. You did the same and put the Austrian school at risk! Now our country is standing, our boys and their parents are standing in front of the ruins of this policy. PISA, the large international comparison study on the skills of 15-year-olds, shows that Austria has been dramatically slipped in just three years: Every fifth Austrian youth cannot really read! Every fifth youth can't really read in the schools you're responsible for at the age of 15! Austrian students have great problems thinking logically and finding answers to tricky questions. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't shut down the students!]] The crash of the Austrian school in detail: in mathematics – compared to PISA 2000 – from place 11 to place 15, in reading from place 10 to place 19; Knowledge of science: from place 8 to place 20. - That's your balance, Mrs Gehrer! A slender balance sheet! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is, of course, even more debilitating that PISA also gives us an answer to the question of what is missing in Austria! In those countries that cut off better than the ‘Gehrer-Schule’, the school is not finished at noon. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Korea, for example!]] In those countries that cut off better than the ‘goat school’, not at the age of ten are the good separated from the less good at that time. [[Call the ÖVP:Bayern!]] In those countries that cut off better than the ‘Gehrer-Schule’, there is the common school beyond the age of school and the all day school for all. [[Call the ÖVP: Korea!]] For many years, we Socialists have tried to move you to renew the Austrian school from scratch. We've been on the 12th. Here in this hall on March 1, 2001 requires: “General guarantee for the afternoon care of students”. – This has been rejected by the ÖVP and by you, Mrs Minister! ==References== The National Council of the National Council of October 2003 called for: “100 000 all day places in schools” – This has been rejected by the ÖVP and by you, Mrs Minister! ==References== Proposal for a Council Decision on the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Economic Community and the ‘Further expansion of the range of school forms throughout the day.’ This has been rejected by the ÖVP and by you, Mrs Federal Minister! And what did we not have to hear from you on these occasions? Members Höchtl – already in retirement today – compared our proposals with the school system of the GDR; [[Abg. Amon: Right!]] Member of the Grossruck Committee on Education has always been quite forceless about “all day” with “compulsory day”. [[Call the ÖVP: Vote eh!]] And you, Mr Amon, still have in December 2004 – the paper you wrote it on is not even dry! – judged by the SPÖ concept of the whole day school as follows: “Ursocialist models from the moth box”. – You will have to learn to learn, Mr. Cot. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: But go!]] But you too, Mrs. Gehrer, have ignored our notes for years. They have ignored the guidance of the educational researchers, which means that more funding also needs more school. They have ignored the instructions of the Chamber of Workers that more and more women are working and therefore need the support of the school in the afternoon. And you have also ignored the instructions of the parent associations that for further assistance in this country already € 100 million – 1.4 billion schilling! – it is necessary to spend because the ‘goat school’ does not do what the boys need to promote. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Shydermair]] [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now, Mrs Bundesminister, after PISA, everything should become different at once: If we have heard so far, there is no or very little need for all day schools, we now hear that all schools should become all day schools. If we have heard so far that the best form of the entire day school, which is the one that has been distributed throughout the day, is not in question, you will now release it to parents and teachers. – I say: Turn around! However, much of what you are saying is not very clear – I say – is deliberately kept in the fog. I would therefore like to ask you a few specific questions in order to be able to see through this fog once. [[Abg. May. Molterer:... does government aid need now?- Oh, my God!]] The Chamber of Workers Vienna has calculated that two out of three schools need to be rebuilt so that students and teachers can really stay there all day long. This costs, says the AK, half a billion €. Are you prepared to take this major school building programme quickly, Mrs Federal Minister, and to finance it quickly? Will you spend the money at the Federal Chancellor and at the Minister of Finance? Or do you think that is the task of the municipalities and countries? If you are of this opinion, I ask you: Will you make sure that countries and communities get the money they need for school development? The Chamber of Labour has also calculated that the whole day school will cost only half of the school children in the current holding €200 million annually. Are you, is the Federal Government willing to bear these costs? Or are you going to pay most of the costs to countries and municipalities? Will you ensure that countries and municipalities receive a higher share of tax revenue in the financial compensation, so that they can do so? [[Abg. May. Molterer: Whom you rejected!]] Or will the school of the whole day only be able to exist in those congregations that are rich enough to set it up from their own resources? I've got the suspicion that it's all you need to do is make a lot of wind and divert it from PISA. The next few weeks and months will show whether this is really the case – and I am the first to come back to this speaker's desk and say: I was wrong about this point! [[Abg. May. Molterer: As in many others!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Amon.]] It's nice when you say you're going to move. We are happy when you move on to us. But the proof that it is serious that there is a concept behind it and not just phrases, you still owe it to us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] You can always leave a topic in mild darkness during your announcements about the whole day school: Is it now a “primary school”, so the class still ends five or six hours spent in the Stakkato with a joint lunch and play and fun in the afternoon, without any further promotion? [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Play zither!]] Or is this the form of the whole day school, of which all the experts – including your experts – tell you that it is the only right one: the one with distributed lessons throughout the day, with promotion, with teachers who are there all day and those who are weak, help to find the connection to the level of the class. [[Abg. Scheibner: No more sports...!]] [[The speaker takes a short break.]] [[Abg. Amon: (in the direction of SPÖ)]] – Oh, my God, you are so well placed! But this is not really appropriate to the subject. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: Pretty late!]] [[Abg. Dr. Rasinger: (in the direction of the speaker) Your group is not PISA fit!]] I think it's a dramatic topic: Each year, 80,000 students start school again. With each year that these reforms will begin later, 80 000 children will again be given the chance of better education and better care from the beginning. Mrs Bundesminister, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: Do not hesitate to re-start the school any longer! My colleague Erwin Niederwieser offered you to bring everything under roof and compartment until summer. – Your answer is over.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6108	Mrs Gehrer spoke in favour of an introductory opinion. Mrs Bundesminister, your speaking time should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6132	Mr President. High house! I would like to say to Mr Broukal: I am amazed that for him education is quite easy money: more money into the school buildings, more money into the individual areas. – Education is not that simple, Mr Broukal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Interlocutors with representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Education means motivation, means best teaching – which is not to buy, but which can only be reached by motivation. [[Abg. Oils: Free?- Oh, my God!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Nasty! But they don't want to hear that!]] [[Abg. Mandak:... volunteer?]] I would also like to point out that your question is very easy to answer: The school buildings have to do the respective school holders. The respective students are in compulsory schooling the countries and the municipalities, in the federal schooling area of the federal government. So history is very simple, and if you know the law, you know it! [[Abg. Lens: He doesn't know them!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Broukal.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Best school, providing best education, must be the concern of both municipalities and countries as well as the federal government. And that's why you can't just say: Everything the covenant has to pay, but it must be done together. And that is why €12 million more for funding measures were agreed in the financial compensation for the countries. [[Abg. Brosz: All of Austria or...?]] The Federal Government is giving the countries €12 million more for funding measures – some 400 to 450 posts for the promotion of those who need it. The countries have to do this now and cannot move it somewhere. If I hear you talking, I always hear the following statement from a school expert: You can't create the school of tomorrow with the recipes from yesterday! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: That's grotesk what you're saying!]] – This is not a sustainable solution for the future, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] And I'll tell you exactly how we'll shape the school in the future. [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Completely unsuspecting!]] For years now, we have started to give schools greater autonomy in the field of curriculum, in the field of school budgets, in the field of school autonomous days. [[Abg. Oils: Bad enough, the school autonomous days!]] We train the directors so that they can really live this autonomy with their teaching staff. These are development steps that after decades of centralization, after decades of rigidization just need longer time. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oils: These are old pots...!]] [[Call the SPÖ: You didn't understand anything!]] We have speeded up the school expansion programme, putting millions into the school expansions in the federal states. I would also like to thank all the local authorities, all the countries that provide their schools with the best. We are the country that has the best computer equipment in Europe – and we are proud of that! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oils: That's inconceivable!]] We also invest in the technical universities with the High School Development Plan III. The technical universities are the educational highlight in Austria. We have more students than ever. And if you look at what's going on at university excellence centres, and if you really go to universities, talk to the responsible rectors and vice-rectors, then you'll hear these say: [[Abg. Broukal: When was the last time you were there? I've heard you haven't been coming for two years!]] We finally have the freedom to shape; we have a budget with which we have to calculate, but I think that is important and good! [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: Freedom...!]] We also receive money through research investment, through the government's research offensive; the universities are developing very well. – I thank those responsible for this. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The positive development of school means positive motivation, and that is what disturbs me about the discussion you are having. [[Abg. Oellinger: You haven't been able to do that for a long time, Mrs. Minister!]] It bothers me that you're trying to make school bad. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] It bothers me that you ignore that in addition to the PISA study, which is a snapshot from the field of knowledge, we have numerous further studies that confirm the high quality of Austrian education. And I would at least give faith to youth employment. [[Abg. Oil: What?]] Austria is at the forefront of youth employment in comparison with other EU countries, far ahead of Finland! [[Abg. Silhavy: That's incredible!]] Our young people are able to put their husbands and their wives in professional life, and this is a result of our education system. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Of course, we need to move further together. I was pleased when Klubobmann told Dr. Gusenbauer that he was in favour of the fact that we practically no longer need the two-thirds majority for various further developments in Parliament. But since it is not so fast to abolish this two-thirds majority, I assume that you will give your approval if we propose some positive further developments in the school sector. This is the logical reverse that you will then allow these further developments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Exactly!]] [[Abg. Arbitrators: illogical reverse!]] I will also tell you what we will call on you in the near future, where we will ask you to participate. [[Abg. Oils: Without dialogue!]] We will put in a legislative proposal that in all compulsory schools the five-day week becomes a matter of course – I emphasize: in all compulsory schools. [[Abg. Oellinger: You were always against that!]] We will also submit a legislative proposal that a day care be offered to schools, but we will leave open the possibility of what form this should take, which the parents themselves should determine. That's what parents' associations demand. I'm against a new centralization, against a model for all schools. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] We will also offer the possibility that a small folk school in the country that does not need this day care will decide in the school community committee that it does not need and therefore does not offer it. I think this freedom, this autonomy, we must leave our good schools. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Oils: Who decides?]] – School community committee: the school partners. There are parents, teachers who jointly advise the future of the school. [[Abg. Brosz: With what majority?]] We will therefore make a request that the day-to-day school of life and working time of a modern society be adapted. And I am curious if you will give us your support for these requests. Ladies and gentlemen! With regard to costs: We have offered 10,000 additional care places this year, and we have provided € 8 million in the budget. Only 8 100 places have been claimed. We will also provide for the necessary resources in the budget for the future, thus contributing our part to day care. We will be in the reform dialogue on 14 May. Proposal further steps on February. This begins with managerial training and goes to language early promotion, to special reading support, to promote the burgers. For this purpose motivation is necessary, for this purpose joy at work is necessary, and for this positive thinking is necessary. [[Abg. Scheibner: This is what the opposition is all about!]] That is why I also ask the opposition in this House: with positive thinking and positive motivation to support our further steps in the field of education for the benefit of young people.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6559	The speaking time of all other speakers in the current hour is 5 minutes. The first speaker is Mr Amon. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6577	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! It is quite interesting to look at these panic attacks that Mr Broukal has taken here. In fact, it is always surprising to me that those who have actually written the anti-performance on the flags that are against any review that is against an assessment of performance in school take a one-time review, a punctual review in four areas, in order to derive from how the entire Austrian education system would change. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! You have no credibility there! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Furthermore, I think it is of course that international comparison studies are carefully looked at and assessed. I am already very excited about what the detailed results look like, to what extent, for example, we have serious results in the capital city of Vienna other than in other federal states. On the basis of the in-depth investigation, we will see whether Your models of a cooperative middle school, as you call it, not only cost more, but probably no longer bring. That is the problem of your education concept, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, I believe that it is important that all the international and Austrian studies we have available should be taken as an opportunity to develop the education system permanently. It was our education ministers Elisabeth Gehrer, who, after the last PISA study, has already started a series of measures that are now being implemented, which have been a very encouraging result for the Austrian schools and thus also for the achievements of teachers. For example, if you think about day care, we have tried very well to work out the need in the sense of day care. The Councils of State Schools have been invited to raise the need for this. You should give an answer to why only 8,000 jobs offered by 10,000 have been used, ladies and gentlemen from SPÖ, and not simply call for more money and demand that the care should be made naturally and necessarily comprehensively for all – and not only for those who actually need it! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Broukal: That's what your Minister says, Mr Amon! You've slept for the last two weeks! That's what your minister says: all day school everywhere!]] Not so aggressive, Mr Broukal! We believe that we should make an offer where it is actually needed, and not those who do not want it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6640	Mr Broukal, you are making calls from a place that is not yours. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6656	A very important point, ladies and gentlemen – that is already in preparation and is being discussed with the relevant bodies – is the further development of teacher training. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] It is a very essential point that we develop teacher training, from the educational academies to universities for educational professions, because we are not concerned with simple organisational structures, which ultimately do not give the result for the quality of an education system, but we are investing in the quality of the school, i.e. in teachers. [[Abg. Oils: Super-fine cream!]] That is, I believe, the right approach. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] You take, ladies and gentlemen, the PISA study and derive from the PISA study everything that fits you in the crab. It can't be! They completely ignore the fact that there are, for example, other essential data which give a very good witness to the Austrian education system. Consider, for example, how many Austrians have completed further training after compulsory school: This is 84.6 percent in the country, with only 72.5 percent on the European average. This is a good witness to the Austrian school! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] See how many people in Austria participate in further training measures: In Austria it is 12.5 percent, on the European average it is only 9.7 percent. This is a good sign for the Austrian educational institutions, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, it should be said that I am very surprised that you, from the Social Democratic side, in particular, are completely wiping away the fact that we have a four times lower youth unemployment than is the case in Finland – that country you always point out. Because of the dual vocational training system, because of our excellent vocational secondary and higher schools, we can guarantee young people God thanks also to a good future in our country in the sense of professional and employment ability. This is also a good testimony to Austrian education policy and to our Minister of Education Elisabeth Gehrer.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6714	The next speaker was Mr Ddr. Decliner. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6774	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The current discussion, which is certainly being followed by many interested people, is most pleased with those who do not need and want reforms in the school sector. Indeed, these people know exactly how much more we are fighting here, the less likely something is to change. We have experienced delicate plants in recent weeks, so it looks like there could be a consensus here in Parliament on reforms. We must be very careful, ladies and gentlemen, that these plants will not be trampled on again. They are still too weak to be able to come up with – those who have been dealing with education policy for a long time know what I mean by that. It is, of course, attractive and also right when we say, Mrs Federal Minister, it is not true. It is simply not true that these results do not tell us anything, Mr Amon! Of course, these results of the PISA study tell us a lot, and they also tell us that we have to do a lot, have to change a lot. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: PISA doesn't say anything about our...!]] Mrs. Brinek, in 2000 we are still in sixth place with our results in the field of natural sciences – imagine this, that has been a very good place! –, three years later we are on the 20th. Job. Imagine this graphic once! What are we then in 2006, i.e. in the next investigation? – Then you can look for the point under the table. It's going to look so bad, and it should look like that. You're not happy, but you should do something. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What is it about? – Of course, it is a matter of providing schools with much better education all day long and allowing school forms, in particular, to promote the weaker children, and this should give you the most thought, Mr Amon, as employee representatives. After nine years, the school gives 20 percent of children much too little in life, they can't read enough, they can't do enough mathematics. That's the dramatic result. It is not about our AHS students being as good as those in Finland. This is no wonder if we choose the best and put it in our own school. The dramatic thing is that we leave much too many children, too many young people in our school system, and this is a responsibility that this government must finally perceive: to do something for these children! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Of course, the common school of the 6- to 15-year-olds is not the panacea, but talk to experienced teachers. What do these, Mr Neugebauer, tell you have been a teacher for a long time? – I recently spoke to a high school teacher who worked for about 40 years and is now in front of the pension. He said: My biggest problem is if I don't have a student in a class who is going to “draw” the class because they're all in the gymnasium. This is, of course, a problem for our selective school system, and so far we are waiting in vain for proposals, Mrs Federal Minister! I would expect you to move in terms of content and that the ÖVP will also move in terms of content. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have heard almost a fireworks of announcements in the last few months from the mouth of the government parties, which will change everything. A journalist asked me: Are you not offended that the Minister is now taking so many proposals from your programme? – I said: No, we're not insulted, because it's primarily about the children, it's about the young people, and it's about doing the right thing. The Commission on the Future, which you, Mrs Federal Minister, have set up, will shortly present its proposals. We have been discussing for three years, and we now know what to do. We don't need to wait any longer, and you don't need to ask us the rhetorical question of whether we'll stand for the five-day week – you know we'll do that. It is about starting to work, whatever we are paid for. Mr Amon, I have proposed 15 dates for the first half of the year so that we can deal with these reforms in a speedy way so that we can know what our schools need to do in the future before the summer. I haven't got a reply yet, whether you're prepared to talk about it at all. But I very much hope that in the next few days we will come to a conclusion on how this work is to be done. This Parliament is here to work and do the best for our school system. They have the power to take up our proposals and not only to comment positively, but also to implement them so that our children have a fair chance.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6832	The next item is Mrs Rossmann's speech. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6850	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The result of the PISA study has not really surprised us. [[Cheerfulness with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] - They laugh. From this point of view, we have warned of this development for many years. My predecessor Rüdiger Schender, my predecessor Karl Schweitzer, my predecessor Karin Praxmarer, warned my predecessor Herbert Scheibner about this development. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Socialist Education Policy!]] If we are talking about responsibility today, we must already ask: Who is really responsible for this result? – I recall that all school laws have been passed in the last 30 years under a red Chancellor and a red minister of education – at least the last few years in the great coalition under a red Chancellor. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Take note of this! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] If you compare the current PISA results, you also need to know that all students who have been tested went to the first class of folk school under Federal Minister Scholten, the Minister of Social Democratic Education, and did not learn to read there. [[Abg. Brosz: You can't count!]] - We can understand this very well. We also hear from your party president, Professor Van der Bellen, that the concept of performance is still pomped. For all the left-wings in our country and especially for the greens, the term of service is still pomped to this day. The result of this PISA study is ultimately a result of down-level performance, an equalisation company under the title ‘equal opportunities’. Equation is understood to mean that one no longer promotes the weakest and does not demand the best. This is your responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But I say that for our supervisors too! Many of the reasons why there is nothing going on in our education system – and I am speaking to colleagues from Niederwieser – are that all school laws have, so to speak, been established in constitutional order, the Constitution has been abused, as Professor Korinek has recently said, because they can only be amended by a two-thirds majority in this House. [[Abg. Oillinger: Don't tell us, tell your coalition partner!]] Either you change the constitution to mean that school laws are simple laws, or you're willing to talk to us and start real reforms. The fact that it can also go differently can be seen where the liberals are in decisive responsibility, and there I refer, even if you do not want to hear it, to our school speaker Dr. Jörg Haider in his capacity as head of state of Carinthia. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] There will be a response to the results of the PISA study, where new paths will be taken, namely a school attempt at a common school of the 6- to 15-year-olds. It is also a matter of reintroducing preschool. [[Abg. Oils make a hand movement like someone who swings incense.]] We liberals were vehemently opposed that the preschool had been abolished and replaced by a school entrance phase where reading and writing are no longer being taught on a sustainable basis. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] At the end of the second grade folk school, the children should be able to read and write after the school entrance phase. Many can't, but still get up to the third class, and this reading weakness then depends on them all life after. And this leads to such results that we are faced with now. In Carinthia, consideration is also given to the ninth school year. The polytechnic school is not supposed to be a waiting room, a partly lost year, but it should really be a professional year in which the students can orient themselves. In addition, this year must be included in the further education path, such as the transition to a trade academy or to a higher education school. I also say: We still have a lot to do there! There is a real demand for the constitutional protesters. It is time to sit at a table and think together about real reforms. The population is sorry to hear your regrets all the time. Instead of always raising demands, you should sit down on the table and assume your responsibility. They bear responsibility and should therefore be open to reforms. [[Abg. Oillinger: Was this a coalition offer to the SPÖ?]] As I said, it's still a lot to do. But I also say to you: For example, they have caused teachers – and I hear that everywhere I go – to have no authority. In your eyes, authority is a very bad thing, is paid to you. Teachers have no more hands these days when students do not carry out their homework. [[Abg. May. Maier: Are you in charge of the penalty?]] We have now introduced the warning, the early warning in the first semester, but I must tell you the following: It is a very good solution, however, if teachers do not have the opportunity to derive further action from it, if only a message to parents remains, then this is also a toothless instrument. All in all, it should be said: There's still a lot to do. Therefore, please put off your party-political glasses! Also put off your ideological glasses! And put off your teachers' tradesman glasses as well! Then: We have to work here for our children and for the future of our youth in our country!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e6987	Mr Brosz. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party. Speaking time: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7005	Mr President. Minister for Education! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! It is not easy for me to follow this debate in the form it is being held. [[Abg. Scheibner: I think so!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: That's too high for you!]] Mr Amon, Minister for Education: In the Austrian school system, we have the situation that we confuse a quarter of the students on their way of compulsory schooling, that at the end of the school years, a quarter of the students cannot solve the most banal and essential tasks de facto and we have to talk about secondary illiteracy – but you act again as if everything were in butter as if we had no problems there! In Austria, almost 40 per cent of the professional students of the problem group defined by PISA have to be counted, namely that group where the school goal has not been achieved. You are responsible for this, and no one can take this responsibility from you! Mrs Rossmann, can you calculate? Since when is the Minister for Education in office? - Since 1995! And which year was tested? Those of the students who started school in 1994/1995. But you're making others responsible here, and you don't think you're wondering about these results. - Yes, neither do I! [[Ironic cheerfulness and condolences with the Greens and congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] These results are due to the fact that in recent years, under your responsibility, a resource reduction has been carried out and a reduction has never been made in Austria in the Second Republic. There is no need to wonder about such results! Now on the keyword “Motivation”. Great, everyone must be motivated. – Have you looked at the PISA study? It is only necessary to remove the tables in order to obtain information on this. If it wasn't as sad, that is, as the PISA chief Haider described it, you could almost laugh about it again. So, according to PISA study, how does it look with motivation in mathematics? [[The speaker shows a graphic.]] The question was asked: Can you start something with what you learn in school? – In this presentation, countries are classified according to their results. What do you think Austria is? [[Abg. Scheibner: That's too small, you can't read it!]] Down there, the country with the worst results. Do you know what PISA chief Haider said at the presentation? – It has already been feared that the table would have to be expanded in order to be able to present the Austrian result at all, so bad is the motivation. But you're still pretending to have a great school system, and still saying that according to studies, the motivation is as good as that. This was a study in which the students were asked and not tested. On the question: Are you motivated? We're down below with the result. Also on the question: Can you start something with that? With our result we can be found at the bottom. One comfort is: On the question of how self-esteem is, whether what you learn in school is good, the Austrian students have quite good averages. The Finns are among those of the Austrians with their result – although the results in Finland are much better overall. You should ask yourself what is actually wrong in this school system that you have to answer. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Amon, I've been wondering what's going on in the last few days, because we've always known what your position is about the whole day school. The opposition, in the You don't seem to be aware of it. Then: On the one hand, you are talking about autonomy, and on the other hand, you are the ones who are now publicly promoting the whole day school. – I am actually surprised that the media accept this. All of Austria believes that there will be all day schools. Thank God It is now clear to the Austrian population. She now knows she won't be there. There is no money for it, nor is there the willingness of yours to change the system. Then you also say that the communities are responsible. – You really have to break that on your tongue: They have created a school system in which the communities were actually forced to build school buildings designed for half-day teaching, because they could not decide that they are running all day schools. Now go here and say, All day school is great! Now the communities are to rebuild all the schools that have been set up on the basis of your education policy as they otherwise do not exist throughout Europe. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] At the moment, no one can be responsible for sending children to schools such as ours, where there are no such offers, for example a lunch. Do you think I'd like to send my children to a school where they only have the opportunity to buy a sausage in the buffet at lunch, if they're in school until three or four o'clock, and that five days a week? That's not our idea of all day schools! I'll tell you something. With the way you now carry out the entire day's debt debate, you destroy this idea, because in order to implement it meaningfully, it takes an implementation phase in which the structural adaptations are made and the corresponding requirements are created with regard to the teachers. But I'll tell you something: You know that all day lessons are currently being funded by parents, because now you have to pay for the afternoon care. I now ask you: If you say the schools could choose it, but you don't pay for it, what does that mean? Do we then have to pay school money for all day schools in Austria? Can the children who go to all day schools only go if their parents have the money for it? Do we have school-level tuition fees? Is this the education concept of the ÖVP? [[Abg. Oils: Yes, that's it!]] Is that what you want? – That’s what you’re talking about right now! This means that we cannot begin relatively much. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Mr Amon, it's really remarkable – I've wondered – how you've walled in, so it was a miracle that you can leave the speaker's desk. In view of this situation in Austria, this is completely inadequate for the development of the education system.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7121	The next speaker is Mrs Dr. Brinek. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7139	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Minister! Mr. Vice-Chancellor! High house! At the beginning of Mr Broukal's speech, I must conclude: If he calls Austria’s cut-off in the last PISA study “crisis”, as a “catastrophe”, as a “trumbling result”, “dramatically reduced”, then I must say: With this conclusion, which he draws from this conclusion, he would not receive a positive school news which is imminent for the students of Austria, nor a positive witness at the university, nor any other positive feedback. [[Abg. Olympians: Oh, God!]] Apparently he has not read this PISA study. [[Call the SPÖ: Please!]] The decline of achievements, from the place of the last PISA study to today, is moving in such a narrow area, the countries are so close to each other that one could never use these powerful words! – That once for the introduction. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Nevertheless: There is a need for action! What's the SPÖ doing? – Classical organisational reflex: The school needs to be rebuilt, the introduction of the whole day school is the only solution! [[Abg. Broukal: Her minister speaks of all day school!]] This is in no way related to the PISA results. [[Abg. Broukal: Tell the woman Gehrer!]] This is in no way connected with it. Read the literature on this! For years, solid evidence has been shown: It is not possible to draw an organisational conclusion automatically from school performances, from comparisons with school performances! So you can't follow from PISA: We have to start all day school! [[Abg. Broukal: Tell the woman minister!]] It is not possible to follow from PISA: We have to start the entire school! - It's all wrong! This is a complex topic that deserves a solid understanding of all aspects and factors, as no ideological reflection should be given. Please get used to this! It does not lead us further. I'd like to call you the sources where you can read this. What could we do for the next PISA test, a snapshot alongside other good evaluations? – We could quickly change the curriculum, include some PISA tasks in the corresponding school levels, start some exercises a week – and then we would do well to cut them off. We could evaluate the school books and build up PISA-friendly tasks. We can do that! But perhaps we should take this opportunity to talk a little more solidly about the future school system, such as the question of further qualification in the field of specialist didactics, the construction of the curriculum, which is now divided into nuclear and enlargement materials, and thus the high level of commitment for teachers, to select something or to leave something away, and perhaps to become more professional about teachers' working communities, i.e. with all the more results that are consistent with the PISA expectations. Something very important: Germany was so clever and, after PISA I, made an in-depth investigation – I have found it here – in which it was shown that the organizational background of school is in no direct connection with the result of PISA. Why do Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg always cut off very well at PISA? They have the same high school rate, so there are as many students in Gymnasia as in other federal countries where there is this. Nevertheless, these two countries are at the forefront. Which country is always in the back? Bremen – because, apparently, as in Vienna, the problem of integration has been neglected for a long time; this is also to be read in this study. This is also an example of starting to react with organisational reflections. I would also like to repeat how far individualization can go, so that it also takes on wrong traits. Finland is in the final analysis of whether pupils feel comfortable in school. Why? – Because too much individualization, too much in the afternoon, even with special offers to keep the students in school, I say now, to a certain degree of reconciliation, to a loss of class feeling, leads to a loss of community feeling. – So we also keep track of these results! If we analyze PISA studies and other investigations, let's stick to the matter! I think it is good and important that the Minister said: We must take into account the social background of parents or families and make offers where they are still missing. [[Abg. Oil: Yes, yes!]] Of course, parents have already paid for afternoon care offers. [[Abg. Oils: Aha!]] But I thought it was wrong to say – as some colleagues do – that: Everyone has to offer a full day school, a limited model, because that is neither due to demand nor scientific solidity. [[Abg. Oils: Afternoon care!]] School reform must take place constantly. School reform must take place with the involvement of school partners and experts. Wanting easy solutions is the wrong way. We are on the right path with the Minister and with the benevolent thinkers!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7278	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Kuntzl. 5 minutes speaking time. Please, Mrs. Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7328	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Federal Minister! I must confess quite honestly that I am confused, disappointed: I have expected a completely different debate here in the House today! – Yes, Mrs Brinek, you too have very different sounds! [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Go, go!]] I can remind you that in the last few days, the Federal Minister has said – and we are very pleased – that the consequence of the PISA study is the whole day school. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: You didn't say that!]] So with much of what you said, you actually contradicted the Federal Minister. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] – Yes, but today the debate sounds quite different again. The movement that has come into the debate in recent days is no longer present. [[Abg. Oillingers: You have to watch closely at the ÖVP!]] Of course, we are also in favour of permanent school reforms, but we would be satisfied if they were finally considering – after so many years of downtime! Unfortunately, today your announcements, which you have made in recent days, turn out to be a great disappointment, as air bubbles, because if you, Mrs. Federal Minister, are producing yourself here today and saying: Education policy is not just more money, but education policy is motivation, and you can't buy it with money!, that means nothing but that you actually tell us in the clear text here today: I will not work to make more money available – that is, for measures that are urgently needed as a consequence of the PISA study in our schools! Obviously, you have nothing else but to decide a small law here and then say: Let countries and communities see where the money comes from! We at the federal level have no responsibility at all, we do not want to do that! – This is a huge disappointment, Mrs. Federal Minister, today in this House! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] This reminds me very much of the question of childcare places, wherever it means: The Federation has no responsibility there, only the countries and the communities! And the situation does not improve, on the contrary, it is becoming more dramatic. Now that you have obviously needed 40 years to finally gain the knowledge that certain steps are necessary, it turns out today that you now want to take some steps at a similar slow pace, and that is really not responsible, Mrs. Federal Minister, for there are already too many lost years. But obviously you are planning to continue to shift lost years ahead of you. I should like to point out that every year lost means that 80 000 children, children who start school, will be deprived of opportunities, opportunities that each of these children would urgently need, which are also easy to support. After the previous PISA study, which you have responded to with unjustified self-satisfaction, it would have been necessary and already possible to make choices. Unfortunately, you missed that. That's three lost years. Mrs. Federal Minister, please, make sure that there are no more lost years. Let's sit together and see – and in the last days and weeks you have made it sound like it – how we can really redesign and pass on something in the minds of our children in schools! Please meet us and move! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to all day school: Yes, of course, the expansion of afternoon care is an important step, which would be a relief for many parents who are employed and who do not know where to go with the children. But it's about a lot more! It is not only about knowing the children's care, but also about implementing a meaningful pedagogical concept for the children – and that's the day-to-day school! Therefore, the whole day school offer must also be extended and not only the afternoon care. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. Mandak.]] The question is also the following: Now it's like everything's being pushed on the parents. The whole funding should only be carried out by way of remedial assistance, and the parents must spend a lot of money on it. There is already a need for money to be taken into control. I mean, in expanding all day schools, for example, we should look at Germany, where the first PISA shock was reacted quite differently. At the federal level, money is very likely to be taken into your hands. In Germany, €4 billion is being made available to truly expand the entire day school offer by 2007. Let us take this as an example and let more seriousness come to pass! Mrs. Federal Minister! We need a concrete implementation plan, a timetable. We need very concrete proposals from you and, of course, a financing plan in order to be able to bring about genuinely serious reforms in the interests of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7427	The next speaker is Mrs Rosenkranz. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7445	Mr President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The applicant's speech made it clear how this case is being handled. One tries to derive from a study those content that support the long-populated, desired and proposed ideological goals. That was not a correct analysis with God. – That is why I would like to make a number of adjustments. PISA 2000 and PISA 2003 did not differ in content. As mentioned, one slides slightly down in the ranking through the close togetherness of the countries. But the result – and even at the universities the followers of your school policy – has not changed much. Unlike PISA 2000, when you did not notice this, you have this time understood perfectly how to “campagnate”. This is a shame because it does not achieve good analyses and therefore no solutions. I would just like to make a few points.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7472	Please lower the sound level and listen to the speaker!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7488	Korea and Japan have cut off quite well. This is hardly ever mentioned by you. These countries have school systems that are quite different from what you call good or what they are in Finland. These are school systems that still have proper “pain schools” in the foreground. They are very hierarchical and authoritarian and achieve excellent results as I see them. This is obviously not as related as you want to represent it. With regard to Mrs Gehrer's accusation that she would have caused the weakness of reading, I would like to say the following. Mr Brosz, I would like to try again with my fingering: Year 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 [[Intrusion of the Abg. Brosz.]] Children of the birth of 1987 were trained in 1993 and should have been able to read in a sense at the end of the second grade. But this was done under Minister Scholten. When Mrs Gehrer was appointed to office, it had already been wrong. I would like to maintain that perfectly. I would also like to add that the result of the lack of reading is due to the general school of folk school. There you should have learned. If this has not been done, it cannot be the only question of the school organisation. The following will also be very interesting if you finally come to an in-depth analysis of the results and their evaluation: What's the city-land gap? We now know from individual results that primary schools in the country are far better off than secondary schools and AHS schools in Vienna. This is, for example, a point that you have to look at and wonder why this is so. I would like to add one last point – and this taboo will have to be “lifted” if we want to improve: What about the ability to speak and the cultural background? What about immigration in relation to education policy? So I'm allowed to say: Finland has a foreign rate below 3%; Japan has a foreign rate below 2%. Why the results are so bad here is certainly also related to the fact that we are not nearly successful – in Vienna this is shown in the flight of students to private schools – to bring integration to such an extent that it is for the benefit of the newly-citizens and immigrants, but above all for our children. They suffer from the difficulty of teaching and learning in a multicultural school – as it happens in part in Vienna. The importance of the ability to speak can also be seen at another point. Differentiating by region, South Tyrol is the best region as far as reading skills are concerned. Especially where you are very sensitive about learning the German language, because this cannot be assumed, it is shown that you can do something by doing so. I think that this very short-sighted, purely ideological analysis will certainly not improve us. We will have to deal very closely with the in-depth analysis, which will look at these details and provide a different picture, if we really want to achieve a good school policy in the interests of our children.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7548	The last speaker to speak was Mrs Mandak. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7566	Mr President. High house! Dear Mrs Gehrer, you are blaming us for making the school bad. We don't make school bad, we criticize your education policy. Your education policy is criticized here, not the school is made bad. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] You, just you're talking about motivation. It may have been three or four years since you were silent when Haider spoke of Schmarotzern, meaning teachers in Austria. There you were silent, there was no word heard from you! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] They are the ones who claim that there is no link between the class size and the quality of teaching. These are your access to education policy, which is your way of depressing teachers. Don't put yourself in space, you have to provide more motivation! Do it yourself, then a lot has already been done! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] I do not want to take PISA, but rather to take your education policy as a starting point, and I would like to point out three points which, in my view, are key criticisms of your education policy. First of all, this concerns the point that you are ready – and always ready – to subordinate education policy in Austria to the Golden Calf of the zero deficit. They have accepted from the outset the requirement that educational expenditure should be reduced in Austria. You didn't care about the quality of education. They have followed the following sentence: I have a budget to clean up. – That’s what it’s all You're so literally said. That's your attitude. You don't have to be surprised when this comes out. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That means: Minister of Finance Grasser deletes money. You delete positions of teachers, you delete promotion lessons, and you delete positions of language health teachers. They pay costs, which would actually be the cost of the state, to the parents who have to pay 100 million euros each year in Austria alone for follow-up hours. This creates one of these great injustices. There are students whose parents can afford to thank God, to pay this support, and others who cannot afford it. We want a school system in which the students are individually promoted so that this is not necessary. It is the task of the state to ensure that good education can take place, and not the task of parents to spend €100 million per year on it. [[New condolences with the greens.]] You are talking about integration, but through your savings measures and your cuts you are unable to integrate. It is not possible to teach children with non-German mother tongues well if you have deleted 50 percent of the jobs of the language teachers in recent years, who were there to give these children more instruction in German and to support them in language. You must not be surprised if integration cannot work and the chances of those whose mother tongue is not German are even lowered. Unfortunately, these represent a significant proportion of those 25 percent of pupils who are unable to read meaningfully after completing the school. They push it aside and pretend that this is not a problem in Austria. We of the Greens see this completely different. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The second major criticism is: They give apparent autonomy and thus get rid of your responsibility. They're pretending to be schools and universities autonomous. They say: You are responsible for the quality of education that takes place with you. At the same time, cut the budgets, so that these institutions do not have the money they need. You clean yourself up and pretend you don't have anything to do with it. On the other hand, their education policy is completely unplanned and arbitrary. For years they have weathered with very massive statements against a whole day school. Suddenly you make a turnaround and say: All day school is all right! We still don't know what to do in schools in the afternoon. Should there be support and support, or should children only be supervised? What do you want? Do you do it all day? How is the infrastructure to be created for this, and who is to pay for it? – All of this remains due to answers. You are a specialist for empty tags. At all day school, it's just like at Elite University, where you can't say how to finance it and who's funding it. The main thing for you seems to have a nice keyword, allowing the other universities to starve at the outstretched arm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7682	No one has spoken about this anymore. The debate is closed. Entry and allocations
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7702	As regards the negotiated items and their allocations, I refer to them according to § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure to the communication distributed at the meeting room. The written communication shall contain the following text: [[Quoted print version removed]] Declaration by the Federal Chancellor according to § 19 para. 2 GOG
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7929	We now reach the German Chancellor's declaration according to § 19 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and debate. The President-in-Office of the Council agreed on the following Rules of Procedure for this debate: The Federal Chancellor will make a declaration of 10 minutes. Then there is one speech per group of 7 minutes each, then a speech by a member of the government with 5 minutes, another word per group with 5 minutes each, a speech by another member of the government with 5 minutes, and a final round per group with 4 minutes each. That's a total of 84 minutes. We shall now proceed to the vote. Whoever agrees to this proposal, I ask for a positive sign. The proposal was adopted unanimously. We shall therefore proceed in this way. Mr Bundeskanzler, I give you the floor to make your statement.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e7969	Mr President. High house! I am not allowed to announce to you a change of government, it has just taken place. [[Abg. Oillinger: Again!]] We were with the President of the Federal Republic of Germany. Ursula Haubner was presented there as a new State Secretary and Sigisbert Dolinschek as a new State Secretary at the Social Ministry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: She has become a minister!]] Without delay, I would like to introduce to the House the new team, which is partly an old team in a new position. At this point, allow me a very warm and open thanks to the divorced Minister of Social Affairs, the former Vice-Cancecian Herbert Haupt, a man who over four years has shaped the social sector and thus the social policy in Austria as few ministers before him. I sincerely say to him a great thank you for the changes that have taken place with him and through him since 2000. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Herbert Haupt leaves an impressive balance sheet as a social politician. For the first time in eight years, for example, the care allowance is 1st. Let's see that we're valorizing January. [[Abg. Mandak: Do you trust to say that?]] – Especially the Greens don’t need to laugh! – Equality between workers and employees is a long-standing demand for workers, which has been perfectly realized under Herbert Haupt. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The family policy milestone of payment of a child's allowance for three years for all Austrians was created. In the BSE crisis, he proved very knowledgeable leadership together with the Minister of Agriculture. He was very determined and turned away from Austria a far greater crisis which could otherwise have happened. Last year, another milestone was decided with the help of the Members, namely the Federal Animal Protection Act. Disability policy was and is a heart concern to him. The disabled billions have caused dozens of excellent projects, which no longer can give up in the social state of Austria today. All of this carries Herbert Haupt's manuscript, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] In the last two years, of course, the central task has been to reform the pension scheme. I would like to point out this point once again, because there is a lot of heart blood and work in it. For almost two years, all parliamentarians, the social partners and many experts have been set the course in such a way that since the 1. For the first time in the history of the Second Republic, for the first time in three weeks, only uniform pension entitlements for the future can be drawn up. Whether someone is an employee, worker, farmer, self-employed or an official – all have the same uniform pension right for the future, with better accounts for women, with family policy incentives and so on. I believe that this point is a real cornerstone of Herbert's main social policy and thus the entire federal government. This is his handwriting. He didn't protect himself. I say that very openly, because, I believe, “sontation” was not foreseen in Herbert Haupt’s vocabulary. His friends Ursula Haubner, Hubert Gorbach and I have always recommended that he take care of his health, but he has not heard of it. But now it's time for him to look a little bit at himself. I wish him all the best and good luck. [[Prolonged condolences with the ÖVP and the liberals as well as with the representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Dear Herbert, I have a time limit, so I need to keep talking. I also find it very Austrian and very nice that in the House you have applauded all four political groups and respect you as a person and as a human being with all the difference in the policy of matters. You're supposed to experience this in his lifetime! That is why I think this is a very nice sign of all the four groups of the House. The new are not new, but active in a new function: Ursula Haubner is a well-known social politician, and Sigisbert Dolinschek is well known to us as social spokespersons and long-standing negotiators. Both of them are politicians with handshake quality, who are excellent human beings and with whom all Members of this House can work well. That's not going to cover the differences, it's not supposed to. It shows, however, that we want to work and can work on the social state of Austria together. Good social policy always means first-class location policy. That is why I am very glad that we see things comprehensively. Compared to 1999, €5 billion more will be invested in the economy today. This means a great boost for jobs. Today we have 3.2 million jobs instead of 3.1 million five years ago, so 100 000 people have more work and bread. Income rose by €27 billion. Savings have increased by €4 billion and exports have increased by almost 50 percent. We have 120 000 more apartments, we have 200 000 more vehicles in Austria. Self-sufficiency has increased by €1.5 billion thanks to future provision and employee care. This is again a product from the social policy and location-political workshop of this Federal Government. So, in total, I believe that we can build on a good soil and that we can build on the tax reform that took place on 1st. Japan has entered into force and brings important income benefits and tax reductions for all Austrians, well equipped for the next few years. Thank you and all the good, my dear Herbert Haupt! Good for the new, Ursula Haubner and Sigisbert Dolinschek! We will cooperate well and hope for cooperation with the House.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8100	Mr Gusenbauer. — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to speak on behalf of the Group of the European Speaking time: 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8118	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I wish Herbert Haupt good health and hope he can spend a pleasant retirement. [[General condolences.]] Ladies and gentlemen! But it is not the prime minister who has lost the rule of the Schüssel. The last few weeks and months were marked by the fact that at each parliamentary meeting some other minister went. Federal Chancellor! For the next Parliament meeting in February, the question is: Who will be the next? Very many are no longer left of your original cabinet. Will the next Mrs Gehrer be the Federal Minister, who today has re-invited the educational standstill? Or perhaps Mr. Grasser will be the next one to ask himself: Did he say the truth sometime in the last six months? [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Dr. Pilz.]] This is the question raised by the Austrians in relation to Mr Finanzminister, who on every occasion digresses the population. So in February, we'll know who's next who's going to get out of your cabin. Ladies and gentlemen! Today's government transformation has been taken by the Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany as a reason for drawing up social policy. – Well, you have some essential facts – I want to say, as always! ............................................................................................................................................................ The fact that there are more than 350 000 people in Austria today who are looking for work, that there are 300 000 people living in acute poverty, and that your policy, with more than 58 stress measures since 2000, has made a significant contribution, Federal Chancellor, that is not a balance sheet of social policy success, but quite the contrary: This is the balance of the social cold that you have built up in Austria! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Because the topic of pension was also addressed: There is still no uniform pension system in Austria! [[Abg. Scheibner: Well, not because you blocked it!]] There are still dramatic differences between workers and employees, between public servants, between politicians. I tell you, Federal Chancellor: You have prevented a uniform pension system for all Austrians! This question will only be solved in the future, and only then will there be justice for pensioners in our country. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It also raises the question: What does a pension scheme look like when there have been pension adjustments, which are always below the inflation rate since the year 2000 year after year? That is, the pensioners actually get less every year. If you are rowing one so-called milestone after another, each one of these milestones often emerges as a stumbling block for the quality of life and the incomes of the Austrian population, for ask yourself honestly the question: Who in Austria will receive more for his work today than in 2000? Who in Austria will receive more pension today than in 2000? The vast majority of the population will confirm the opposite to you! Life has become more expensive, people have less income today! – Unfortunately, your policy has not contributed to improving quality of life, but the exact opposite! [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. Oils.]] [[Abg. Großruck: It speaks Kalina!]] Ladies and gentlemen! It should be noted that, unfortunately, this change of government will not lead to a change of course in social and economic policy, but that you continue to pursue consistently the path you have been taking since 2000, namely the path of a government that is rightly accused of social responsibilitylessness. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Did the Kalina write you this speech?]] This is a lost opportunity, my dear. Ladies and gentlemen, if there are already changes in the government, it would be a reason to finally rethink and end this social cold policy. But no, you say it's going to go as far as it used to be! – This is a bad news for all those who are looking for work, for all those who are living in materially difficult conditions today, and for those who are rightly complaining today that the money is getting less and less enough, although they have to work hard. Ladies and gentlemen! It therefore turns out not to be an actable government that uses a government reform to renew it, but, quite the contrary, to present a government as a doorway, where one minister pushes the other in his hand. It remains to be seen who is next, who leaves this government. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: As long as you don't come in!]] In case you are looking, I would recommend: Minister of Finance Grasser would be the best candidate!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8253	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Molterer. His speaking time is also 7 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8271	Mr Gusenbauer! After this speech, we know who does not want to go to the government and, above all, cannot go to the government. [[Cheerfulness and condolences with the ÖVP as well as the liberals.]] The look back, Mr Gusenbauer, is the look into the past. - We're looking forward! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, we thank Herbert Haupt – and I do this very personally – who, for health reasons, has relinquished his office as Federal Minister. He didn't save himself in his work, he didn't make it easy, and, dear Herbert, I say quite openly, you didn't always make it easy for us. But you have a lot to book on the agenda of politics, your political responsibility as Vice-Chancellor, as Minister of Social Affairs, as Minister of Health; the pension reform, for example, which has already been addressed, or animal welfare. Personally, I can also say from my own experience in a very critical situation, you Minister of Health, I Minister of Agriculture, when we had the BSE question to deal with: Thanks to your absolute persuasiveness in this matter, this has worked well, especially for Austrian consumers. Thank you, Herbert Haupt, for your work! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We welcome a friend – so far State Secretary, now Federal Minister for Social Affairs: Ursula Haubner. With Ursula Haubner's office today there is also a historical effect: For the first time, there is a majority of women in the ministerial government of an Austrian government, namely in the Cabinet Schüssel II. [[In the case of the ÖVP and the Freeman, as well as the Abg. May. Worm.]] [[Call the ÖVP:Super!]] We know from you, Ursula, and at Sigi Dolinschek – both social and family politicians – the issues of social policy, family policy in very, very good hands. Ursula Haubner has worked on the points, worked in a leading position, and – yes, Mr Gusenbauer! – we will continue this social policy with this government, Chancellor Schüssel and Deputy Chancellor Gorbach. Mr Gusenbauer, I would like to take up your call for a debate which you have completely broken down with your speech – which, by the way, sounds quite the same as all your speeches on these issues – on several topics. They criticise pension harmonisation and pension reform. – I say to you: If we had not chosen this way, we would not have gone this way, then we would have acted responsibly toward young people! What is pension reform other than fair distribution of the necessary burdens between young and old? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You didn't!]] It's unfair to say: We want to impose all the burdens on young people! Our path may not be the most pleasant, Mr Gusenbauer, but we do. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: That's not true!]] She always leaves the courage when it gets serious, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We've done something with the pension reform – something you're always talking about, but we've never done it. We have balanced the age benefit on three pillars. – This is modern social policy in the government of Schüsel, which we will continue to do too! [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: You shortened her, the pensions!]] The figures speak for themselves. One of the three pillars, for example, is the redundancies, and it is now 1.3 million workers who are taking fresh advantage of the redundancies. – A real breakthrough in social policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] There are now 360 000 Austrians who take advantage of the possibility of occupational care through pension funds, and 450 000 Austrians take the private future provision, this modern form of their own pension provision. – This is offensive social policy, which is directed towards the future, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Balanced between the three pillars, fair between the old and the young and just between the professional groups! We will, of course, hold on to this way and continue to do so. This is also the way in which we have to deal with you, Mr Gusenbauer. Social democracy actually has a social policy concept that comes from the past and no longer corresponds to modern circumstances. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: You don't believe that yourself!]] If we were to follow this path – which Austria hopefully remains spared – then we would be on the so-called wood road, ladies and gentlemen! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] We are on the safe path of the future with this conception. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This applies in the same way to the necessary reform in the health field, to the offensives we have launched in family policy, such as the money for children and the tax reform, but also to the offensives in the labour market, to active labour market policy, to the apprenticeship offensive, to parental leave and to the equality of workers and employees, to a long-term demands of the trade union. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] – You didn’t do it, we implemented it! Ladies and gentlemen! With Ursula Haubner and Sigisbert Dolinschek, this successful course of the social policy of the government of Schüssel continues – for the benefit of the country and its people!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8444	The next speaker is Mrs Dr Glawischnig. Their speaking time is also 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8462	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! At the end of the last National Council meeting in December last year, President Khol sent an appeal to all club members and also to the Federal Chancellor shortly before the Post-House Gehenna: Please, no special meeting in the next 14 days and please, Federal Chancellor, no government reform! – 14 days, this has come to an end, but now we have to discuss government reform at almost every National Council meeting. [[Abg. Scheibner: And no special meeting!]] In the meantime, I feel like in the movie – I don't know who still knows it – “And daily the marmot greets”, where you wake up every morning and always experience the same day, always the same speeches, always the same. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who is the marmot with the greens?]] The moment of surprise is now limited. I would rather be surprised if this Federal Government would work continuously for a few months in the same occupation. It's always the same thing that Klubobmann Molterer says on such occasions: The divorcing minister is praised, then the look is directed towards the future, and then most of the time the pension reform is praised, which is always very good at it. This preliminary balance has to be taken into account once and for all. There were not even five years since there were black and blue in Austria, three transport ministers, three social ministers, three justice ministers, three vice chancellors. [[Abg. Steibl: And the Glavish was never there!]] [[Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, ……]] - Not yet. With the liberals, this is obviously a training-on-the-job, everyone comes along once. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] I wonder, What do the Austrians have of You are occupying posts in the transport sector – now it is almost twenty blue postships – that door signs are always exchanged, that are speculated about who really has the say in the FPÖ, the brother or the sister, or is there a double tip? It is also logical that the new Secretary of State from Carinthia will be re-occupied. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Do you doubt the competence of Sigi Dolinschek?]] It's all so predictable. But what do the Austrians and Austrians have of it? Continuous work? Maybe more social justice? – Certainly not under the rule! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] The big projects, women's policy. – I ask you: Has anything actually been done for the improvement of women's situation over the past five years? [[Call the ÖVP:Yes! Yes, of course!]] This autumn we have seen a very disturbing statistics, namely: Total unemployment is dramatically high; male unemployment is falling, but female unemployment is increasing dramatically. Do you know what happened that day? – Today, the Minister of Social Affairs, Haubner, has gone to the public and has called for a policy for men! I was unwitting, frankly. I also wonder what the Austrians have done about a tax reform that companies that write losses abroad have to do here, so to speak. [[Abg. Bucher: Jobs they have!]] What do the Austrians have of a tax hole that will far exceed the 100-million-€ limit, what do they have of losses by multinational corporations abroad? – They have nothing of it! Nevertheless, it is claimed that all benefit from the tax reform. Over two million Austrians do not benefit from it at all! I'll tell you: Of this kind of politics we have nothing, Austria has nothing! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Bundeskanzler – because this is not the only problem of the FPÖ –: If we were in football and if a coach had such a chaos in his team – one goes, for health reasons, the one who says that he only got more cover sheets at government meetings, so he goes – then the seven million Austrian “team leaders” would have long held an exchange. You will do that in the 2006 elections – with certainty! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: But we won the match!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: We won the game!]] What can you believe about a federal chancellor? How can you trust a federal chancellor, how can you trust a person who says: As a third party, I am in opposition!, the interceptors will not cost a single cent from the budget, that is financed by an economic platform!Unknown term type: "%s".? How can you trust such a Federal Chancellor or believe anything at all? – I can’t, and I think many Austrians can’t. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] It's also very bad: Forget about the constant change at the FPÖ Sometimes they're on initiatives that make sense. After the terrible flood disaster in Southeast Asia, I was delighted to hear that a proposal that the Greens have already brought in in the debate on tax reform in 2005 and which is very strongly represented by non-profit organisations in Austria, namely the tax deductibility of donations from individuals, is now also represented by FPÖ and is also wanted. I assume that this is still true. The person who said that was Mr. Walch, and he's still there. In the future, making donations of individuals tax deductible is also to my delight the secret wishful dream in the political life of Mr Andreas Khol, the President of the National Council, and I hope that he can make the best of it in the ÖVP. We will also make a motion for a resolution on the tax deductibility of non-profit organisations which do very important work in the field of social, charitable purposes, health and development cooperation. The Austrians' willingness to donate must be recognized. I would ask you, in spite of all these turbulences, to make something useful and to support this request in the Committee and to take this flood disaster to the point of doing something good in Austria for these non-profit associations and for those who don't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8633	The next speaker is Mr Scheibner. His speaking time is 7 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8651	Mr President. Values Members of the Federal Government! Mrs Glavischnig, I do not know where you see turbulence. [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] You might want to. You should not be upset about the fact that we have often held debates on government reforms. This gives you the opportunity to continue Developing their future prospects and hoping to join us once again when a government is being remodeled to take a seat on the government bank, even having the opportunity to put into practice what you all claim and demand. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Glavischnig! But then it will be too little if you just nebulos talk about anything here, about a tax relief. It will be too little to discuss, in terms of tax relief – which has now come into force thanks to God; which you, together with the Social Democrats, have rejected – only to discuss whether any foreign corporations can bear losses, and to forget completely what has really been the core and meaning of this tax relief. The former Minister of Social Affairs and the current Minister of Social Affairs, Haubner, have played a significant role in ensuring, through this tax reform, not only that local guarantees are provided for Austria, for example, through the reduction of corporate tax, and thus that jobs are guaranteed, ladies and gentlemen of red and green, but also that they take into account very clear social and family policy aspects in order to increase purchasing power, especially among the smaller and medium-sized incomes. [[Congratulations on the Free and the ÖVP]] Mrs Glavischnig, do not repeatedly talk about the fact that two million Austrians have not been favoured by the tax reform. These are exactly those two million Austrians – and this number has become much higher by our actions – who do not pay taxes, no wage and income tax. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Say that this has been a measure of this federal government that you have rejected! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Silhavy.]] Mrs Silhavy, that was the key word: Now it's about the SPÖ. Mr Gusenbauer wished Minister Haupt a pleasant retirement. But you were happy too early, my dear colleague, Gusenbauer, for I know that our friend Herbert Haupt will not retire into the – perhaps well-deserved, but for him not adequate – but with Herbert Haupt will also be expected in the future in politics, I can already announce this to you. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: There will still be the head, there the cast farmer will already be on board!]] You are constantly trying to set up a shadow cabinet here as an antipollution to this active and excellent federal government, but you do not succeed, because there is only shadow where there is a lot of light. Light is not visible from you, and therefore there is no shadow cabinet. In addition: The comparison you have to offer here, with the social spokesperson Silhavy or the Greens with Mr Ollinger, we do not need to be ashamed of the personnel we have to offer for this Federal Government, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: He'll make us sure!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] In this sense I would also like to thank you, my recognition and congratulations to the Minister of Social Affairs, who, with the finalisation of the childcare allowance, has set a milestone in family support – Mrs Silhavy, you have rejected all of this – so that the decision of women, whether they remain in the acquisition process or not, really depends on their decision, a choice and not on social aspects. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] The Minister of Social Affairs has done more for the disabled than all your SPÖ ministers together – I remember the disability billions. He also finally has an increase, although only minor, but nevertheless noticeable increase, of the care gel, while there was no increase in the time of the SPÖ ministers in this regard. [[Abg. May. Worm: In our time it was introduced!]] Minister Haupt has not only demonstrated good crisis management at the BSE crisis, but has also taken care of it – together with the Federal Government and the social spokesperson Sigisbert Dolinschek, who has already proven himself to be an expert there – that in the future – at least at the federal level – there is finally a uniform, fair, fair, harmonised pension system for all Austrians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Mr Gusenbauer, if you say: There is no uniform pension system! Then you're right, but where is there no uniform system? [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: Is there not!]] – Where you have prevented it from happening, namely at the country level, for there, for example, in the socialist Vienna, you have made sure that pension privileges continue for your country officials for many years. They prevent them because you do not contribute to the two-thirds majority that the injustices in the Austrian Federal Railways, which can be retired at the age of 47, are abolished. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer.]] These are the questions you should answer. You shouldn't go out here and pretend anything holy. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer:..., be ashamed!]] – I don’t need to be ashamed, but you should be ashamed that you are criticising something that you have caused yourself: Injustices in the pension system, which no longer understands, Mr Gusenbauer von der SPÖ! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We are sure that the new Minister of Social Affairs Ursula Haubner will prove continuity in this area, but new aspects will also be put in the family field, that the liberals will continue to be the social conscience in this Federal Government and that with our former social spokesperson Dolinschek is another initiative person in the Federal Government. We are also very proud that expertise can always be made available to the Federal Government from the Freedom Club. For these two personalities, there is no need for berry advance, which is always required for new members of the government. Ursula Haubner and Sigisbert Dolinschekhen have long demonstrated the benefits they are capable of, and they will continue to demonstrate this in the new functions in the Austrian Federal Government. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Kummerer]] I am sure that Herbert Haupt will continue to have a personality available for this area. I'm just telling you: Be a little milder in criticism! You should take these personalities as an example.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8823	Mr Gorbach is now speaking. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please, Mr. Vice-Chancellor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8841	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Ladies and gentlemen. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government! One of the most sensitive and important, because even the strongest generation of cross-sectors in our federal government is the social resort – no question! And this place has been given a new leadership today; a tour that, as Klubobmann Scheibner has already said, does not need any advance master berries, but has already shown in this area what it can do, how it works, and how her social heart beats very loud. It is also respected and recognized by the media. I congratulate you, Uschi Haubner, therefore, very much on your fishing experience as a Minister of Social Affairs. With you, in this important, forward-looking key function, Austria has received a front woman who brings humanity, sensitivity, courage, competence, enforcement, and that will be necessary in this important department. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's what you need to read from the leaf?- Oh, my God!]] I certainly wish you all the best and can join where Klubobmann Molterer has ended by bringing some to the count, namely on the question: Why are women in the government now in the majority? – If you don't count on the Federal Chancellor and the Deputy Chancellor, it's ten members, six of them are women and four men, or we have a parity, 6 : 6 with the voting members of the Federal Government. – Others decide quotas, we don’t need decisions, we simply fulfill them! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mandak: You are also a minister!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The strengthening of families, the safeguarding of pensions, the improvement of women, have always been important priorities of the policy of free government members. This was the case under Herbert Haupt as a social minister and will continue to be so in the future. I can see that with Herbert Haupt as a social minister, not only a long-standing top political leader leaves Austria's top political league, if you want to, but also a good personal friend of mine. But I am glad that he will continue to play, whenever we need him, I am firmly convinced. Herbert Haupt has been a Social Minister since October 2000, and we have heard a lot about what he has done yesterday and today; we will still hear it tomorrow. But above all, we will always see your tracks, dear Herbert Haupt, and I can guarantee you that just Uschi Haubner will follow these tracks and continue them. Herbert Haupt, you have created with the disabled billion, with the care allowance from birth, with the increase of the paid pension, with the completion of new groundbreaking innovations in social security and really set a social focus after the other, valorization of the care allowance, pension harmonisation. This social policy, this good social policy, will always bear the handwriting of Herbert Haupt. Thank you very much! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] With Uschi Haubner comes a successor, in which we can be sure that she will continue this work well. I am glad that with a profound social politician, who has also made himself very worthy in the field of workers, Sigi Dolinschek, as State Secretary, will be a strong support for Uschi Haubner. I am convinced that under this duo Austria's social policy will continue to be a model social policy. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! Because you have criticized the social policy of recent years, I tell you the following: I'm someone who likes to compare. And if I draw a comparison, once again with Red-Green in Germany and their social policy – Hartz IV lets greet – I can say: This comparison makes me very, very sure that we are on a socially balanced, just and right path. Another thing: If we invest more in infrastructure, rail, road, noise protection and more in research and development than ever before, then this is employment-effective investment. [[Abg. Mandak: Education!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The consolidation of Austria's economic location, the consolidation of Austria's place of work, giving people work, which is the most social policy that can be done at all. And we do. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, we are also one of the best economic sites worldwide, which shows a recent study, IMD study, it shows how we have been able to work ahead in this area since 1999 – from 60 selected countries, we are in position 13, Switzerland place 14, Germany place 21, Japan place 23, that says something. We are the most attractive research site in Europe. – This is social policy because it receives jobs, creates jobs and secures the future. I wish the new Minister of Social Affairs Uschi Haubner all the best, good luck, good work for Austria. The new State Secretary Sigi Dolinschek is a warm welcome to the team, feel comfortable and do good work for Austria just like your predecessor! A good luck! Good luck!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8925	The next speaker is Mrs Silhavy. Your speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e8943	Mr President. Members of the Federal Government! High house! Ladies and gentlemen, you are following this discussion! Today, there has been a reorganisation of government, a reorganisation of government in a department whose area in Austria is associated with strong political conflicts. It is about social policy. Ladies and gentlemen! Even if it is said again: If we do work, it's social! – the Federal Chancellor likes to say: Social is what creates work! – so I have to say that’s the wrong access. Social is to give work and create work, but under the appropriate conditions: work from which one can live; Work in which one can still live family and social things. But you haven't done this policy yet and don't do it! And that is why we are opposed to this social policy and are critical of it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! You have already contributed to this policy in your previous role, especially as party chairperson. Today, the “standard” as a subtitle was that you want to become the social conscience of this government and the secret women’s minister. Mrs. Federal Minister, if you want to be “secret women’s minister” – I fully understand that, because the woman minister responsible is not aware of the fact that women’s work has not been done in Austria since the start of this federal government – I would have expected you to say something about the comments of Mr Gunnar Prokop – he is by chance the husband of one of your colleagues in government. [[Abg. May. Worm: Unfortunately!]] [[Congratulation with the SPÖ]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But not of her!]] He is now no longer a man who is, so to speak, only a man of the people, but thus he also has a certain public. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fekter.]] In my opinion, it is inconceivable that none of the so-called 50 percent women of the Federal Government, which anyway requires their own calculation, express themselves and distance themselves from the fact that women should be raised in the kitchen and children – and that is why it has become self-contained. [[Abg. Scheibner: Why should the Social Minister express himself on family matters?]] I think this is inconceivable. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: I have already believed that you have more speech material!]] But also in social policy, ladies and gentlemen, you do not make women's policy. The pension reform – and you know that very well, Mr Molterer, we have done this to you with figures and facts – is unfair and unfair, especially at the expense of women. [[Abg. Scheibner: They're all wrong!]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: False numbers are not facts!]] It's bad, but you're still putting it out in praise. It is a policy to avoid responsibility. They abandon the older generation, but they also abandon the young generation. – This is not a policy we can represent, Mr Molterer. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Older women over 50 have no design option. They are abandoned by this policy, which Minister Bartenstein makes. We have unemployment rates that are higher than the population of my hometown, namely Graz. That's terrifying. And you're not doing anything in the direction that emergency aid for these women is at least accounted for for for the pension. We have an inflation rate of 2.9 percent. They do nothing about the constant loss of value of pensions. They do not mind the dramatic increase in unemployment in Austria: More than 300,000 people are poor! Mrs Minister, this is not a sign for the Federal Government: The social market St. Pölten already supplies 200 customers. Do you know what a social market is? – This is a market where goods with a recent expiry date, goods with damaged labels and the more affordable for people who can no longer afford the goods in the normal supermarket. That is the social policy of this Federal Government! – This is a scandal, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Or, because the childcare allowance here has been so praised: What is the result of child care? – That women are being pushed out of the labour market. Yes, of course, exactly according to Mr Prokop: Back to the kitchen, rearing children – and off. This is your policy, and we despise it and reject it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: What do you “disdain” for child money?]] In addition, your inability to engage in a dialogue will be added. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Mrs Colleagues! What do you “disdain” for children’s money?]] We have told you about the ambulance charges, we have told you about the accident pension tax – you have gone over them. You're not able to have a dialogue, and that's the bad thing. The same is true of your policy as a whole: one-sided, not talking, and if the Constitutional Court picks up something, then we have to fix it. [[Abg. Scheibner: You are not allowed to agree anywhere!]] But before that, we'll wait for the whole thing to happen. Their policy is based on poverty and almsentum. Harden compensation funds instead of rights – that's your policy! This is not a policy that people in Austria have earned. This is not a forward-looking, modern social policy. This is a social policy of the Middle Ages and the Stone Age. And that's exactly how you rule. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign.]] Mrs. Federal Minister! Be careful that you will not become a bad social conscience of this federal government instead of a social conscience! It is high time for a social policy change in this state!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9142	Mr Neugebauer has now been reported to speak. His speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9160	Mr President. Federal Chancellor! Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen, Ursula Haubner, Sigi Dolinschek, whom I welcome very warmly, does not need 100 days of time because they are at home in social policy. Over the last few weeks and months, I have come to know and appreciate Ursula Haubnerin not only in her particularly binding way, but also in the drawing of the binding and not the parting. And what is particularly important, especially as regards the ability to engage in dialogue, Mrs Colleague, is that you could take a measure of colleague Haubner: Ursula can be heard. This is an important attribute in politics. Because I know that you, Mr Haubner, are listening to me right now, I can give you a heart that we will work together as soon as possible to implement what we are planning in the course of the pension reform for the heavy workers. I can also offer you to advise and implement together the important issue of compatibility between family and profession, which we have designed in the ÖAAB. Sigi Dolinschek is most known here through almost one and a half decades of activity as a Member of Parliament. I personally appreciate him on the basis of his expertise, his plausible work, and I also appreciate his sympathy – you will not take this to heart – for working for a very long time in practical working life, from the master of the work to the technical staff and as a works council, as a staff representative. I read that you, Sigi Dolinschek, postulated the fight against social abuse. I also understand that we are strengthening the success of social services and that the social network is once again more firmly connected where nodes threaten to arise. I also invite you, however, to bring one of the basic evils to life together with the members of the government and the parliamentarians, namely the shadow economy to the fight efficiently. [[Abg. Silhavy: Minister Bartenstein says we don't need that!]] It harms the economy, everyone who works well, and withdraws the transfer services of the money we need for social security. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I thank you, my dear Herbert, for a lot of good conversations. You have made an important and important contribution to social affairs, so that we can say big modo: Family benefits in Austria are the best in the world. Thank you very much for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] You will deal with your own serenity the other puncture in the media, because obviously the number of your accidents to water, to land and in the air requires special attention. You will also survive the comparison of how many cartoons you create as a cult figure in the competition with Bruno Kreisky. But what really counts and what I estimate is that you are a person who has given attention to the weak, the disadvantaged and the disabled. And that distinguishes you from those who comment on social policy. You have lived up to social policy and social commitment. And that's what counts in politics. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If there's a prospect that you're not leaving the political stage, I'm glad. But I, as the elderly aged a few years, may give you an important sentence – not observable – that applies to all who travel from early to evening and at night: An overcrowded calendar is not a full life for a long time. This should also apply to politicians. I wish you all the best, Herbert, and wish the two new officials of the Federal Government the best success in dealing with this important task in the common interest.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9225	The next speaker is Mr Ollinger. His speaking time is also 5 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9243	Ladies and gentlemen! Dear spectators! Mr Vice-Chancellor, although it is nice to stress the proportion of women in government, the women obviously have nothing to say. First of all, the chancellor, then the vice chancellor – and only at the end of the day can the main affected, namely the Minister of Social Affairs, say something for a few minutes. That's what it looks like in your federal government! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Federal Chancellor! What you need to learn from these numerous stagings, government reforms, start-up is certainly the following: Whenever you praise one of your colleagues, it will be dangerous for him, then it will be extremely dangerous. If German chancellor Schüssel says that main is a great social reformer, then for the main the red light has to shine, and it has also flashed, because since Chancellor Schüssel said that – that was the first time about a year and a half ago – since he said that is the axis in the government, which one does not want to miss, that must necessarily be there, because he has signed the coalition agreement with him for the second time, it is going downhill with Herbert Haupt. And I could also mention to you some other members of the government, which you have finally brought out of the government by your praise. That's not good. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] Now there are some in this federal government who have not been so praised, who can still rejoice, that is obviously reason enough to survive. But honestly, Mr Morak, if you are not praised, you are pleased? – That is not very pleasing either. [[Call the ÖVP: That's pretty stupid!]] What I certainly do not want to agree with the Minister of Social Affairs and now ex-Secretary of State, that was and is his commitment. Yes, Chief was engaged. [[Call the ÖVP:Ist!]] Main has always tried – until a year ago. Since then, Main has resigned and has not set up initiatives in the Federal Government. The pension reform, ladies and gentlemen of the Freedom Party, has almost already been written by Mr Schüssel, the Federal Chancellor. But the pension reforms were certainly not represented by the Social Minister in 2003 and 2004. He came out in 2003 with a draft, he said, that's a really great thing, pension reform, government draft, with 30, 40 percent pension reductions, and after a month he said, we're actually glad that this is now away from the table. That's how it looks in your government! The liberals were and cannot be expected to have a social policy in the sense of the poor, even though individuals, like Mr Haupt, have always tried. What can be drawn as a summary of the free movement of people, this is a ghastly failure. I want to describe it not only by means of ambulance charges, accident pensions, the abolition of various reforms by the Constitutional Court, the main association et cetera, but simply by the fact that in these five years in which you, ÖVP and FPÖ have shared together, the possibility of making the gap between the poor and the rich in Austria has not become smaller, but larger. My colleague, Mr Glawischnig, has already pointed this out. On the one hand, you say as ÖVP and FPÖ, for the companies that make debt abroad, we place tax advantages. And on the other hand, you're naughty enough to say, the waiters we'll tax the drinking money extra in the future. [[Abg. May. Molterer: What does that mean?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Stay in the number, Mr. Cot!]] These are the relations you set: tax the drinking money to waiters and issue the debt abroad to large corporations and tax-free! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] These are the relationships, you have to be measured at that, not because a person like Herbert Haupt has tried to get used to it all the time, but has finally failed politically in this government, in this FPÖ, but just as with this ÖVP. To prevent social abuse, what you have announced as a concept for your government, that is not a social policy, with the You can stand before the Austrians!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9332	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. Ladies and gentlemen, there are also 5 minutes of speaking time for you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9350	Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to return to the criticism of oillingers that capital companies would be favoured and that poverty would not be combated. Mr Oellinger, if the economy is strengthened, there are jobs, and this is what this government is doing. The government is pursuing this goal of creating jobs! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. The highest unemployment rate!]] I would now like to refer to the comments made by Mr Gusenbauer. His sensitive comments already call for a closer look at the political past. Mr Gusenbauer! Lone record holder with regard to the change of ministers remains the SPÖ. Vrannitzky has managed to consume more than 20 ministers and state secretaries. So really a proud achievement! [[Abg. May. Worm: Ten years!]] You have no reason at all to point your finger at us. But you know, your criticism, that was the so-called pumper, like many of your criticism points. Because I can still remember: As the head of the Social Minister has been praised here or has given his first speech, you have been sitting here by the SPÖ, Taferl has kept to the height and mok about the fact that a minister, a male minister also represents women's affairs. In the course of the years, however, they have seen that social ministers mainly represent women much, much better than some socialist social ministers or some of the social ministers. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Women's minister Dohnal of SPÖ has said that despite long SPÖ government, women are still in the premise of power. [[Abg. May. Worm: Epochal!]] That was the sad admission of your women's minister! Minister Haupt has created 19 new women's and family advisory services. He has set up special kindergarten projects for women, who work on coatings, in cooperation with industrial firms. He has provided better pension insurance for women who care for disabled persons, and, and, to name just a few things. If you understand under women's policy that statements by husbands are criticized and commented on by ministers, you will not find the right contact, ladies and gentlemen. Because what someone says privately, even from family members, that does not belong to the political discussion. [[Abg. Silhavy: He didn't say it privately!]] Remember, Mrs Silhavy! [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, what I really want to highlight today – it has already happened several times – is the interest and commitment that Herbert has shown to be the head of the disabled. I thank you very much, Mr Herbert, for not yet a minister before you has really tried as intensively for disabled people as you do. I've experienced this. Since 1983, I have been in Parliament. There were a lot of socialist Social Ministers, and I often wondered: Where is the commitment of the Socialists to the disabled? - I didn't find it. You were the one who really had to deal with the disabled intensively and also found solutions. And for the first time, there is also an increase in the federal care allowance, even if it is not much. In total, it is €13 million, which is more available for disabled people, and I thank you, Herbert. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In the same way, my dear Herbert Haupt, through the billions of disabled people and the hard fight against this money, you have caused thousands more jobs for disabled people. And that's really something great. I hope that Sigisbert Dolinschekund will also continue Ursula Haubnerdie's projects. The disabled people are expecting it. I'm sure you'll bring this commitment as well. I can only say about what Mr. Club President of the SPÖ, Dr. Gusenbauer, accused the Federal Government of – including “social responsibilitylessness”, “social cold” and the social policy of this Federal Government as a whole: In my opinion, this was nothing but the duty of an unsuccessful opposition politician, because when we look at the European neighbouring countries, we can clearly see that Austria is better in every respect. That is why the criticism you have made here, Dr. Gusenbauer, is not appropriate. This federal government is still on the right track. I wish the newly praised Minister Ursula Haubner and also Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek much success in continuing this path!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9469	Mrs Haubner came next. Mrs. Federal Minister, you too have a speaking time of exactly 5 minutes. - Please, Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9488	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! High house! As one of six highly competent ministers of this cabinet, I am in front of you today, and as a representative of one of the key sectors of this federal government, I can briefly outline my future line. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] I'm going to follow or continue on that path that Herbert Haupt has designated. Herbert Haupt has shaped the social sector, as only a few of his predecessors have done so. Together with the new State Secretary Sigisbert Dolinschek, we will complete the existing projects of this era. One thing, which is a very special concern for both of us, concerns the creation or implementation of a better heavy-worker regulation, for which I invite all to cooperate constructively – Fritz Neugebauer has already said this quite clearly – and to shape it together with us. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We want to pursue new goals, without endangering social continuity, so that those who need our support will receive such a one in sufficient form. And in order to ensure this, any form of social abuse must be proposed. [[Abg. Oils: Where? Where's that?]] Before I go into our goals and ideas, it is a special heart to say thank you and my highest recognition to Herbert Haupt for two years of joint work in the Federal Government and, above all, for the sustainable reforms in social and family policies. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that fellow people with special needs have a very high priority, which is indeed to be attributed to them, through their integration and acceptance of their achievements. The law on equal treatment for disabled persons, also set by Herbert Haupt on rail, provides the concrete implementation and legal basis for this. For me, the continuation of the ‘Millions of the disabled’ will also be a special concern of the Austrian disability policy. Policy for families continues to be a central task for the future of our country. I will also set special accents for a good co-existence of the generations, in which young people perceive opportunities, but also older people can rely on a quiet and secure evening of life. Family needs partners in the working environment, otherwise women will have to decide primarily between work and the performance of a child's wish. Family needs partners in the living environment, because sustainable regional strengthening is only possible through a dynamic population. Children also need partners for a yes to life and protection from violence – and therefore the National Action Plan on Child Rights will be another important area of action. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In my opinion, care at home will increasingly be a question of monitoring and discharge more appropriate. With the family hospice, we have set a first milestone, also as an answer to discussions on the topic of death aid. Work for older people is a challenge for the economy, with full support from our department. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Consumer protection will also be an important part of our work, an important part of our tasks. Consumer protection means lawyership for the citizens of our country – and therefore Sigisbert Dolinschek and I understand us as lawyers in terms of consumer protection, in all situations of life. Of course, our principle of proximity to citizens will continue to be true and we will strive for further expansion, in the form of the provision of services, in the form of quick information, advice and assistance for the citizens of our country. Ladies and gentlemen! Especially at the beginning of a year so important to the Republic of Austria, I consider it my first task as the Minister of Social Affairs to contribute to ensuring that social cooperation and social security in our country continue to be ensured, especially for those who have built up our country, which has created the basis for it. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] On this foundation, we want to continue to make good use of the social network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9564	The next item is the speech by Mr Vergestnich. 4 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9583	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Values Members of the Federal Government! – By the way, Mr Bundeskanzler: On the website of the Federal Chancellor's Office, this government reform has not yet been implemented; perhaps one could also make it public there. [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. former Federal Minister, I do not want to thank you for the ever-ending willingness to engage in dialogue. Even if we did not agree on many questions, there have always been approaches in the direction of coming to a common view of things. I assume that this may be easier now, as you, Mr. Haupt, are now re-entering the National Council and are therefore not subject to the unanimity of the Federal Government, the Council of Ministers, so that common ideas can be implemented and enforced more easily. [[Abg. Scheibner: You do not agree anywhere!]] Why do I say that? – Because here several times... – Mr Klubobmann Molterer, listen! – The fight against undeclared work has already been addressed several times, but: [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] Who, then, has prevented you from implementing the draft put in place by the then Federal Minister for Hostasch by ÖVP or the Liberals?- Oh, my God! Why does it always take years – and this also applies to education – so that things that we have discussed together can actually be implemented in your government coalition?- Oh, my God! A rapid implementation of necessary things would, in my opinion, be a forward-looking policy. Since you, Federal Chancellor and Mr Vice-Chancellor, have tried to provide a certificate of performance here: I see this as a future job assignment to the new Federal Minister for Social Affairs and to the new Secretary of State in this department! We still have no real equality between workers and employees in Austria. The Fairness action has not yet been fulfilled, and for example, I can only remember the issue of payment of compensation and still existing differences. They have abolished the compensation fund from ÖVP and FPÖ, creating a situation that has not led to equality between workers and employees. Today you mentioned again the 3.2 million people in employment in Austria: Yes, this figure is correct, but don't forget to say that a total change in the labour market has taken place, because: A third of the 3.2 million employees in Austria are minor employees, part-time workers, child dependants, so people who comply with care obligations! I therefore believe that it would be more important not to try to make the labour market healthy, but to make it really healthy. The unemployed would have deserved this! I believe that this would be an important objective! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] As you have also addressed pension harmonisation: Where is there an equivalence in the replacement times?- Oh, my God! In Austria, it is still such that people who are caring for childcare are worse off due to not fully accountable incomes, especially when it comes to their pension. And this is especially true of women! Therefore: Why Strive You do not need to improve the billing of replacement periods, especially for women with regard to child training periods? As you have addressed the parent age: Only one third of all those concerned meet their requirements so that one can take advantage of the parent age at all. These are facts. We have it to do with living people, with families you need to consider, and not with statistical sizes. I believe that the very decisive thing is how far you actually take it seriously that the parental age will be real for all those who need it. If Mr Dolinschek's Secretary of State now starts new in this office, I wish him good luck. The focus is not yet fixed, he noted yesterday in a press interview. I remind him that he has set priorities himself: Hackler rule: not fulfilled, referendum: not fulfilled, fight against social fraud: not fulfilled. Now there are jobs, I hope he actually succeeds in fulfilling them. We have concepts, we work together on implementation! This brings us further, but not government reform!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9656	The next speaker was Mrs Steibl. For them too, the speaking time is 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9675	Madam President. Federal Chancellor! Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! This government sees itself as a strong lobby for families, children and social interests. And with Ursula Haubner, a woman with whom one connects qualities such as sympathy and integrity, to the head of the Federal Ministry of Social Security, Generations and Consumers In the case of the United Kingdom, the Court of Justice of That means a strengthening for women and for women's work. Ursula Haubner leaves her office with the statement: Allianz für Familie, and State Secretary Sigisbert Dolinschek is at her side. For us, this also involves a local, a regional, but also a European alliance for our welfare state of Austria. At the same time, this is also an invitation to the opposition. What can we look at? We are pleased that the birth rate has now increased by 3 percent, that the number of child care recipients has also increased. If my colleague, Heidrun Silhavys, says that she despises child care, I would like to give the spectators a little more time: As Member of Parliament, President Prammer said in 1998 in the “Oberösterreichische Nachrichten”: “Unfortunately who never worked” and “was only a housewife”. – I would like to say to you: Especially “family women”, farmers now have the opportunity to accept this child - care allowance, and it is not a disadvantage but an advantage! They want to extend the 24 months to 30 months. Then why is it an obstacle to child care? Tell us! Or is that just the envy because you didn't make it? [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Together with Federal Minister Gehrer, we will extend the support opportunities in schools. In addition to the tax reform, in addition to the child allowance for the single-earner discount, we will also take further measures in addition to the right to parental leave, which is very likely to be possible in businesses below 20 employees. And it is important to take a look at the future. A number of things will still be done in this period, such as the further development, the improvement of child benefit, such as the improvement of the reconciliation of work and family, because this issue is one of the most important things to reconcile professional and family life. I would also like to say that the strengthening of various forms of childcare is necessary. I'm talking to the mother-in-law here. I would like to mention the example of Styria: In Styria, the daily mothers are insured under social law, pension law and health insurance, i.e. they have legal claims. This would be a way for the whole of Austria – something that led our wife, the head of state, with the relevant departments. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] It is also important to strengthen the solidarity of generations, and here Ursula Haubnershon has addressed a way. I think demographic development across Europe shows that it is necessary to take action here. Ladies and gentlemen! Life and professional experience must again be more in demand in this context – keyword: Generation question, care insurance. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And I'll say something. Austria spends more than €5.3 billion on families this year. Austria is a leader in family policy across Europe. This government will continue well!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9763	Mrs Haidlmayr's next speech. For them too, the speaking time is 4 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9783	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I don't want to say, Herbert Haupt, as Minister of Social Affairs, has really taken on very much the problems of people with disabilities. You can say that because it was just like that. But the problem was that he failed constantly with his own government colleagues. There was not much of standing quality, because otherwise we would have done a lot more in the disability policy than it is at present. [[Abg. Partik-Pablé: The care money has been increased for the first time!]] There are large areas which have stood out for years, for example, a comprehensive law on disability equalisation. Mr. Bundeskanzler Schüssel then refused to install a working group in the Federal Chancellery. Minister Chief has adopted this issue, and Minister Bartenstein has tried to prevent it successfully. These are the “games” that run there. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And in these “games” one has just stayed on the track, and that is the head of the Social Minister. All those who have praised him so much today – he was so good, and it's so bad that he goes – I would like to say: He didn't leave himself, but he had to go! And I think it must be possible here in this house to finally say the truth: He didn't go voluntarily, but he was fooled out until he said: Okay, then I'll stop! - That's the situation. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That is not understandable what you give of yourself!]] To this end, I know the Minister far too well than that I did not know he would have done otherwise. But now to the still open points. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Sozialminister! I was most surprised yesterday when I heard on the report that Mr Dolinschek, Secretary of State, should suddenly be responsible for the agents in the field of the disabled. Mrs. Minister! I would ask you, on behalf of all disabled people in Austria, to make the agents concerned on your behalf, and not to dispose of them in a State Secretariat. Mrs Minister, there are just too important problems to be solved. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] And for this, Mrs Minister, you are responsible, and I hope you will actually take this responsibility for all the disabled people in Austria and do not shift them to the State Secretariat. Mrs Minister, you know that we still do not have a comprehensive law on disability equal treatment. They know that disabled people are still on the rise, despite these “Millions of people with disabilities”. Mrs Minister, you know that there is still a lack of comprehensive expansion of outpatient care facilities. Mrs Minister, you know, the care allowance must also be extended and extended. And, Mrs Minister, you also know that there is still no legal claim on personal assistance in Austria and that recognition of the sign language in Austria is still pending. Mrs Minister, I have just presented to you a small section of what is still open, and this is your task, not that of a State Secretary. I think you should really consider what signs you are giving as a social minister to disabled people, whether you are moving responsibility for them to the State Secretariat or whether you are taking responsibility for them yourself. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9849	As the last speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Cheers to speak. Ladies and gentlemen, the speaking time for you is 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9868	Dear Federal Government! Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am actually sorry that Mrs Haidlmayr is once again trying to criticize a policy before it is made. Similarly, it was done by our dear friend Federal Minister a. D. Herbert Haupt. He was also criticized in the past, and to scatter roses behind is too late. They should be positive about the good policies of the free politicians when they are made. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] However, I would also like to thank the FPÖ for its work on the part of Herbert Haupt. It has already been mentioned a lot of positive things of what he has done. I am convinced that there is a broad consensus that, in all the hardships that have existed, Herbert Haupt has very well understood how to make good, objectively sound policies. However, I would not just like to thank him in his capacity as Minister. Herbert Haupt and me also connect very close personal contacts. He's my district party, he's really a personal friend, and he's also one: my political father. That is why I would like to look forward to it, and I hope – and I agree with the opinion of our clubman that we do not want to look at the well-deserved retirement, so to speak – that Herbert Haupt will continue to make successful social policy with us here in the next few years. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] If we wish the new Social Minister much success and hope in her, I am convinced that these hopes will not be disappointed, because the mixture of expertise, experience and competence, enriched with humanity, which, I believe, is necessary in the field of social policy, is the guarantee that Ursula Haubnerd's task will be well fulfilled and that she will make very successful policy together with her State Secretary Sigisbert Dolinscheine. If Mr. State Secretary Dolinschek was criticized by Mrs. Dr. Glawischnig in her speech, then, dear Sigi Dolinschek, I can only say to you: That's the guarantee that you're on the right path! If you, Mrs. Dr. Glavischnig, criticize the fact that a Carinthian again performs a function in the Federal Government, then I must honestly say that was the lowest point of your political life today. Sigisbert Dolinschekist is a well-founded politician who has been sitting in this House for 15 years, who has been doing good social policy for 15 years, who is a very basic man who comes from the working population and knows what the problems of the people who have been standing at the lathe for decades, and many cannot say that here. So, Sigisbert Dolinschekweiß, which concerns the people, and to make themselves here and speak of a "feeling occupation", just because he is a Carinthian, Mrs. Glawischnig, that is not really fair to him and above all to the Carinthians. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oellinger: But this is not the case: for decades at the workbench and for decades in Parliament! That's what you've got to tell us.]] As the opposition took the entire government work under fire again, I would like to repeat our successes once again: Tax relief, redundancies, pension harmonisation, the creation of a high-performance health care system, job creation, strengthening the economic location. Ladies and gentlemen! This policy may not reflect the programming of the SPÖ, and this policy may not be in the sense of the Greens – they have other preferences. But don't worry: It is not only that we make this policy good and successful for Austria, but also that we liberals and this federal government are happy to do it. In this sense, I wish the new member in the Federal Government and the new Minister for Social Affairs much success, much strength and good for her work!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9952	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. Request for brief debates on the replies to the questions 2183/AB and 2257/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9970	Before entering the agenda, I would like to say that, according to § 92 of the Rules of Procedure, there is a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply to Question 2202/J by Mr Heinisch-Hosek, colleagues on Käthe-Leichter-Staatspreis – Austrian State Prize for the Women's History of the Workers' Movement by the Federal Minister for Health and Women. There is also a desire to hold a brief debate on the reply 2257/AB to Question 2244/J by Dr Moser, colleagues on dividends from Post AG by the Federal Minister for Finance. Time-limitation request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e9991	I would also like to say that there is a request for a brief debate on the request made by Mr Heinzl, fellow Members, to the Transport Committee to report on request 486/A (E) of Mr Eder, colleagues on high-quality comprehensive postal services. ==References== As the request for short debates has been made at the same time, they will be called in the order in which I have listed them in accordance with the Rules of Procedure at 3 p.m. Any vote will take place following the debates on this subject. Agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10016	It is proposed that the debates on points 5 and 6, 7 to 10, 12 and 13 and 15 and 16 of the agenda should be summarized. On the other hand, is there an objection? - That's not the case. We are now going into the agenda. Text-to-Speech Limitation
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10042	In the presidential conference, consensus was reached on the design and duration of the debate. Accordingly, a day block time of 9 ‘Vienna hours’ has been agreed, so that the following speaking times arise: ÖVP and SPÖ per 175 minutes, free 120 minutes as well as green 130 minutes. The following Rules of Procedure were established for the debate on agenda items 1 to 1 p.m.: First of all, one speech per group with 7 minutes each, then a member of the government with 7 minutes each, then one word per group with 5 minutes each, in further succession of the President of the Court of Auditors with 7 minutes, and finally one word per group of 5 minutes each. Before the beginning of the previous round, the President-in-Office's speaking time will be distributed among the political groups in such a way that all political groups can still speak evenly. Furthermore, there is agreement that actual corrections will only be called after the television broadcast. We shall now proceed to the vote. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who agree to this proposal to give a sign in this regard. – This is unanimously accepted. 1. Point Report of the Court of Auditors on the Perception Report (III-72, D.B.) of the Court of Auditors on airspace surveillance aircraft (782 and 782 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10091	We're coming to the 1st. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are therefore going into the debate. First of all, Mr. Klubobmann Dr. Cap. Speech time: Seven minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10116	Madam President. High house! I am surprised that on the topic of Eurofighter, the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Finance suddenly leave the government bank. After all, these were the two main actors, who are responsible for the fact that this type of decision and the purchase of the Eurofighters has come at all. Of course, the Minister of Defence is sitting there, of course, also the Minister of Foreign Affairs Bartenstein, who is likely to explain to us even more closely the fraud about counter-businesses. I would just like to say the following: In the exploratory discussions on the formation of a new government after the last National Council elections, the Eurofighters were so important that only the coalition partner was in question who was willing to give an agreement to purchase these Eurofighters. This was so important to the Federal Chancellor that he was not only personally present in all these discussions, but also insisted that this was one of the essential points. I now ask myself, after the x-th request here, to finally set up an investigation committee: Why is that so? What's so crucial? What kind of agreements did there have? Why is this government aware that there is at last a committee of inquiry for this purpose? The Federal Chancellor was also the one who said in the election campaign: There, spontaneous economic operators have gathered, who have too much money at their disposal and who are mistakenly happy to buy combat aircraft and would then make themselves available to the Austrians as part of this platform. Of course, that turned out to be more than an air bubble, of course it was not. I understand. Nevertheless: The Federal Chancellor should be present here and the Minister of Finance, of course, too, and it is quite scandalous that they refuse to take part in this debate. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Only in a few words said: Breakfast seems to be an explosive activity in this government! It can happen once before that you get a call and someone says: I'm not your minister anymore, look again! However, it may also be that a Minister of Defense, like Herbert Scheibner, has prepared a ready-made Council of Ministers lecture and, on the recommendation of the most important personalities of his ministry, would like to suggest the grips. While he's at breakfast alone, apparently the Federal Chancellor, the Minister of Finance, that is, Schüssel, Grasser, then the Vice-Chancellor Riess-Passer and anyone else meet, and within two hours the flu is no longer available. Within two hours this topic will be abandoned by the Council of Ministers' day-order – and a week later, the more expensive Eurofighter, a special-class fighter aircraft will come! [[Abg. Neudeck: This is wrong!]] My question is: What happened in the meantime, Mr. Klubobmann and then Minister of Defense Scheibner, if you are still marching towards grips, as in a duracell advertising, and on the other hand, all have said: [[Abg. Scheibner: I already said that x-time!]] No, the Eurofighter has to come!Unknown term type: "%s".? - Why does it have to be that way? That would interest me. [[Abg. Scheibner: The best device!]] Yes, the best device, and above all a superteur device! The Court of Auditors has indeed done a very critical work in its audit report, and we know that, for example, the British pay €62 million for a Eurofighter and the Austrians €110 million. I notice: But there the Austrian negotiators have been quite pulled over the table when we pay almost double! [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] We read from this report that there was a swing around until the call for the Eurofighter finally met. In view of all of this, I would like to know: What kind of intervention chains, what personal concerns were there about choosing the Eurofighter? Explain this to us at last! This will be generations of Austrians at billions – at billions! – burden. – While you can’t even estimate exactly how high the maintenance costs are. That goes up to €5 billion! You cheated at the purchase price. You first introduced us to the “naked” Eurofighter with €1,791 billion. Then we got on it, a naked Eurofighter is pointless, he needs an assembly, he needs weapons – by the way, all that he can't use at all now. This is only comparable to the following example: A housewife buys a washing machine that doesn't exist yet, doesn't know the price, doesn't know how long she works, and it's not even clear yet whether she's just tossing or just washing. If it's just tossing, the hot socks are coming out, which are still dirty! – This is the commerciality you have when buying the Eurofighters. I can't believe it! A scandal! Unbelievable! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Joseph, stay with your man! That's better!]] The purchase and operation of the Eurofighters costs more than the entire defense budget. The whole federal army will soon be made up of only 18 aircraft, and otherwise the federal army will have nothing more. They're only going to drive around with old vehicles in the area, shoot around with old guns, but there's nothing left. That's the logic behind all that you have to answer here. And, rightly, the Court of Auditors says that this is, for the most part, not understandable. I am already very excited about what Minister Bartenstein will tell us about this counter-business shame, who has been doing business for a long time and which abstruse companies are suddenly affected and not affected, and which companies are protesting that they have not yet been thought about. That's it and it's over! And the scandal is: Billions of tax money in the area are being juxtaposed here! This is indeed a loose deal with taxpayers! And a confession is: The main actors, Federal Chancellor Schüssel, Minister of Finance Grasser, are not here. The latter was even... [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser, who sits on the government bench, makes himself felt to the speaker.]] Yes! He can explain to us why he was originally against the capture hunters, apparently then the Council of Ministers' presentation must have been known by Minister Scheibner, might have accepted that it was the grips, but then in two hours it would have made it soft that it must be the most expensive, namely the Eurofighters. That's a really great thing: Becoming Afraid Before Occurrence They haven't been standing for weeks! Otherwise, I can't explain to myself what was happening there. And then, at the same time, grab the Austrians into the pockets and “cutter” the Euros and say: We need to save, cost-conscious! and so on. – From any other private company, Mr. Finanzminister, you would be horrendous if you were to deal with the company’s money in the way that this government has dealt with the taxpayers in the Eurofighter question. Upstairs! But for you, these criteria do not apply. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Unlike you, he was already in the private sector!]] The disadvantaged is the taxpayer, the taxpayer. The Eurofighters will no longer bring security. They are combat planes for operations sometime outside of Austria. There has been a popular desire that has been signed by over 600,000 people, and we have also called for a referendum. – You don’t care about it! [[Abg. Scheibner: Madam President. Can you check the speaking time?]] You are not interested in the majority opinion of the population! And that's after all, I have to say, a negation of special class!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10263	The next item is the speech by Mr Dr Fassleven. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10281	Madam President. Members of the Federal Government! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! This almost mature performance of my colleague Cap has certainly had some entertainment worth. [[Abg. Scheibner: But almost! Stepping stage!]] [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Third-class!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Not even suitable for a carnival stage!]] Unfortunately, it has not contributed to the seriousness of the assessment which has actually been carried out here. I'm really sorry. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] This can be summarized in a few words: The Court of Auditors has clearly stated that the Federal Ministry of State Defense has rightly identified the Eurofighter as the best bidder. It clearly says inside and also that there have been no manipulations. And this will certainly not be put out of control by such a performance, Mr Cap. Take Please be aware of this! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I'd like to go further. – The interception hunters are not an invention of the People's Party. They all know that the first interception hunters have been appointed under a Social Democratic government, under a Social Democratic Federal Chancellor and Minister of Finance. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber:... fighter aircraft!]] That's where we were in the opposition. [[Abg. Lentsch: The cap has already forgotten that!]] If the memory is not enough: I have brought a few more mementos. That's what it says: Fred Sinowatz wants to have intercept hunters ordered in 1985. SPÖ-Vize Heinz Fischer: Take-off hunters: yes! SPÖ shall finalise the purchase of the interception hunter. And so it went on. Even during the last government negotiations – you were not personally involved, Mr. Cap, but climate and edellinger, Prammer and Vergestnich, Heinz Fischer and one were at least partly involved – the principle decision on the purchase of interception hunters was taken. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] Please don't fight that! That's the truth. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] If it's unpleasant for you, I'd like to tell you one thing: One of your party's superiors, former Chancellor Sinowatz, has found to discuss the interception hunters that it would be disrespectful and inappropriate, then, if it costs something, suddenly not to stand for armed neutrality. The state defense could not end a meter above the ground. – This is from the “socialist correspondence” – I can tell you the date – of 19. ==References== Take an example of what responsibility means! They're miles away. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] What really happened is the following: A Commission of 33 specialists in the Federal Ministry of State Defense has dealt with this over weeks and months and carried out assessments in five sub-committees strictly in accordance with a mandatory specification. And the result was that there is a clear best bidder, a technically clearly superior aircraft with 941 useful points compared to 902 for the second, and at the same time a very clear best bidder in the economic sense: There has been a clear recommendation from the Commission on 4 : 1 for the Eurofighter. And that is exactly what the Federal Government has taken. And then what happened? – At the same time, there has also been a negotiation of counter-actions, because we assume that national defence is necessary for security, but at the same time we are trying to bring out as much economic benefit as possible for Austria, and that has succeeded. You can today quite criticise the absence of the Federal Chancellor. He has already expressed himself very clearly. He has stressed that his goal is that as much of the costs will be reflected again. And we're almost ready. I can tell you today that, for example, in the counter-business sector, we have not only agreed on 240 percent of the purchase amount, but that the first major counter-businesses, to an extent of several million euros, are already ashore. You can say that quite clearly. And I'm not just saying that, it's not just a claim from me. Just watch what has happened in the last days! With the Airbus A 380, the Americans were beaten out of the field for the first time in this area. [[Intervocations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] As a result, contracts in an order of over €700 million – which is 10 billion schilling – were also awarded to an Austrian company. We are thus importing high-tech, especially in the field of counter-businesses. Hair is exactly the same with MAN, whereby it must be said that 5,000 trucks are produced in Austria, not in England, not in the USA, and that, although this is a task of the UK Ministry of Defence! The Director-General of MAN did not hesitate to say quite clearly that this mission was only achieved through counter-actions. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Finally, a word towards greens trying to criminalise in this regard. You're trying to do this with all your means. [[Call the Greens.]] I believe that this, ladies and gentlemen of the Greens, is in line with your call to the Federal Government, the most famous Austrian in the world, Arnold Schwarzenegger, to deny citizenship, or on a line with showing Austria to the EU. [[Abg. May. Worm: What do you say about the death penalty?]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Please come, Mr Kogler. You're out to the speaker's desk – you're also Deputy Green Clubman – and you're taking a position on what's obviously been planned for six weeks! [[Abg. May. Worm: What do you say about the death penalty?]] Quote: “Greens want to show us to the EU – New asylum law is too strict for them.” – We have enough EU sanctions. We believe that nesting pollution must end! We believe that politics is serious – and not to end with an attempt to detonate Austria at EU positions! [[Abg. Mandak: You are not here on the subject, Mr Colleague. And you know why!]] [[Abg. May. Worm: What do you say about the death penalty?]] [[Further calls to the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Mr Kogler, take a clear position on this, or try to dissociate yourself from it, clearly. Klubobmann Van der Bellen is not here today, and therefore it is up to his representative to comment on it. [[Abg. Ollinger: He's sick if you haven't heard that!]] Voggenhuber has clearly explained this previously quoted, and it has been reported not only in the “Kronen Zeitung”, but in all media of Austria. [[Abg. Mandak: They deviate from the theme!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Nice slowly embarrassing!]] If you do not make a clear statement from the Greens, then we also know how the wind blows. [[Abg. Sburny: You talk about everything, just not the subject!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] The Clubman of the Greens Van der Bellen tries to take a relatively moderate course outside. However, I think it is also his responsibility to keep the “radialinskis” in his party in check. Otherwise, the policy of the Greens will not be credible! In any case, that would be to the detriment of Austria – and this is true!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10585	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. 7 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10603	Thank you, Madam President. – Mr Vorsprechner, it has been reserved for you to pass the topic in 7 minutes. I will therefore not, of course, follow your ‘invitation’ of putting myself on this ferry. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Fassleven.]] It is quite obvious that this federal government is trying to remove future competence with millions of expensive campaigns. You know exactly what the topic of future competence is, in the greens you have a big opponent. If you now believe that you have to resort to such means, of course you have no intention of doing so. We accept such challenges. But now I come to something that has more to do with this report on the Court of Auditors, which is now under discussion. I can only give you a little benefit, Mr Dr Fassleven, because you yourself have been Minister of Defense, which has been a long time ago, but: Your quotations come from this time. Today, it is not about pro or counter-trappers – we could discuss that too – but about the type decision Eurofighter and the counter-businesses. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: Oh, that's it?]] – Don’t say “Ah that?” from behind! Please read it! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[The speaker goes to the government bank and reads Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein from a written paper: airspace surveillance aircraft...!]] – Now the government bank is also informed. This is about type decision-making and counter-businesses. However, this is about billions of amounts, because even the difference in this type decision – I am now referring exclusively to the procurement process – when we explain this for a useful period of 30 to 40 years, as far as the cost is still in the billions! That's the real scandal: that you're hiding the fact that you're drawing a moral image of your blue-black “wind” here, while a manipulation attempt has replaced the other one! I know exactly what I am saying here – and I will prove this to you. Originally, the Blue Ministry of Defense has, as it were, put all the course in the direction of grips. [[Abg. Neudeck: The Austrian Ministry of Defense!]] - That was so! It is a rather adventurous state that the invitation to tender for these interception hunters has literally migrated into the scope of five pages of text passages, prefabricated by a bidder firm, through a so-called study. It was reserved for the ministries of this Republic to do that, but of blue-black “wind” you speak of a “wind” in procurement policy! They wanted the Eurofighter! You can, at any rate, stand political on this, but then take a position on it! However, as measured by the invitation to tender, you have violated one requirement after another! That is the point, and this is also reflected in the Court of Auditors' report here. - I'll tell you! [[Intercession with the liberals.]] The Court of Auditors has noted – diplomatically as most of the time; we have discussed this very often with President Fiedler – that "seems to be the best bidder". . I say this immediately in advance because you will certainly still be able to do so, at least those of your colleagues, Mr Fassleven, who hope to comment at least on the present situation. What the Court of Auditors is doing in many ways is that you have regularly changed these standards over an open period in terms of tendering and procurement! Samt and have specials So they commit the rather classical deadly sins of incorrect procurement! [[Abg. Scheibner: But you know that was not a tender?- Oh, my God!]] And you have to answer that! There you can wave around with “Kronen Zeitung” headlines from the previous year, as you want, Mr. Fassleven! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Dr Fassleven: Opinion on this, please!]] If you want to continue to worry: There has been the accusation here in the house – the accusation, I say – of the shift in this procurement. In the Court of Auditors Subcommittee, we have tried to follow this up. However, through the blockade policy of ÖVP and FPÖ, it was hardly possible to hear central witnesses. - We're going to get even closer to that. [[Abg. Murauer: But take it back, Mr. Cot.]] [[Further calls to the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I should now like to draw your attention to the points in this report on the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Scheibner: Your presidency was a scandal!]] – Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, you have also – with the support of the majority – preferred not to present yourself to this committee. You, Mr Scheibner, were Minister of Defence at the time, and it would have been better to have said that you would have been in the committee than to call here from the first row constantly in between! But that's what you don't mind. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: Your presidency was a scandal! You have misused your role as chairman of your party policy interests!]] You, Mr Scheibner, commissioned this Court of Auditors report at the time, as Minister of Defence, with the usual background and the question of whether gift acceptances are available. You know very well that the Court of Auditors has no instruments to examine! [[Abg. Scheibner: He tested everything, didn't he?]] Of course, the Court of Auditors could not help but find that it had found “no clues” to that effect. You're not even in Austrian ministries that you can pick up evidence about certain operations – and then someone may be handing it over! [[Abg. Scheibner: A naughtiness that you bring!]] The President of the Court of Auditors has therefore stated – what else should he have done? –: Neither in the positive nor in the negative sense can anything be said about a gift acceptance! – So: The attempt on your part to bring the Court of Auditors up to date on this issue has failed. – Your other attempts have also failed. For the defined standards: Which one were these? – First point: Payment variant. This has been literally changed in the last night, if you want to! And who did that? – The Ministry of Finance! The Minister of Finance may not, however, be heard in the Committee concerned! Why not? Further: Why was only one payment variant selected, at a time when you knew that this is the only variant where Eurofighter is in this “famous” score review? It smells like manipulation! Only when one knew that among many one just spoke for Eurofighter did one select it. The relevant note from the Ministry of Finance is accompanied by the documents here in the House. Further: There is no pilot test – and delivery should have taken place in 2005. But Eurofighter can't deliver in 2005! The additional costs caused by this interim solution should have been added to the Eurofighter variant! And what would have come out of it? – Eurofighter would have been the worst bidder by far! But we're going to discuss all of this! We will certainly not let you go of the responsibility! Now, in this Court of Auditors Subcommittee, the most important witnesses, namely the head of the procurement and many other high military, were virtually prevented from joining by your majority, were prevented from making statements in the Committee, although they, as stated in file notes, said that the other product was to be preferred because of equivalence and much cheaper purchasing and, above all, operating costs. They have retired these officials – and now they are not allowed to declare them anymore, although they wanted to! That's your understanding of education policy! In any case, we will continue to follow this up here in the house! You will not kill us, even if you try to put the whole thing on the completely wrong stage with the Rules of Procedure debate! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Finally, to the famous counter-businesses: The Federal Chancellor did as if the economy wanted to order the interception hunters. – Where is all this now? Do you know what a “counter business” is, for example, Mr. Federal Minister – why have You want to approve such an approach at all? –: The Chamber of Commerce is taking a tour in which counter-businesses are to be advertised. That's what's counted on! The latter is thought to have gone to eat with EADS by the Federal Ministers of the Government: a “wonderful” counter-business – it is more beautiful not to believe the concept! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10849	Mr Bösch spoke next. Speaking time: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10868	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen on the Government Bank! Today we experience a repetition on the subject of interception hunters – I have to say now: gentlemen of the opposition. You have also made no new arguments in your contributions justifying the reheating of this issue in the public. Mr Cap! The SPÖ has become another party on the question of the interceptors: When you were still in the government, you have all the decisions regarding the post-purchasing – to the necessary post-purchasing! – of course contributed. They still held responsibility as a state-bearing party at the time. The government that is now ruling has had to make decisions in relation to your failure on this point. This government has decided – and that, Mr Cap, is called government! You and the SPÖ God are away from this for years of light. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] This government has opted for this type of interception hunter, which has now been ordered – and that was necessary to ensure that airspace monitoring can continue to be ensured. Ladies and gentlemen of the Greens! Mr Kogler! You have stated here at this speaker's desk that it was about the type decision, which is really the content of this Court of Auditors report. – But I do not think you are talking about this type decision! For the Greens, this debate is a vehicle today, in principle, to attack airspace surveillance and in principle to damage the Austrian federal army – and I do not want this to be contradicted as a liberties. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: You didn't listen to that!]] [[Congratulations on Members of the Liberals.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser:... just as...competent as the Fassl evening!]] Ladies and gentlemen! At the time, as the responsible Federal Minister, Mr Scheibner, not only himself in his department, immediately led a comprehensive examination of allegations in the public, which clearly demonstrated that these accusations are unwarranted. You remember: There has come to ads that have all been put back. The Court of Auditors has already presented two reports: a report on the tendering arrangements – in this report nothing has been fundamentally criticised – and the second report we are discussing today is the report on the type selection. It is not often enough, Mr Kogler, to quote from the Court of Auditors' report which we are debating today – it is black and white here: ‘In the light of the standards laid down by BMLV, the Eurofighter fighter aircraft has been identified as the best bidder.’ [[Abg. Gaál: Because... have changed!]] “In its surveys, the RH” – which is the second point – could not find “a reference to an manipulation of the evaluation results and to a related gift acceptance.” [[Mr Mandak and Mr Mag. Kogler.]] Thirdly, ‘The RH noted that no influence on BMLV staff could be demonstrated during supply collection and evaluation in order to favour a particular fighter aircraft.’ Mr Kogler, you should finally take note of this. You should note that the Court's report is clear on these key issues! We already admit that the Court of Auditors criticises modalities and that, perhaps, there would have been other ways of doing so. But the Federal Government, as the responsible institution of our Republic, has chosen the procedure it has chosen, and it now stands for it, and that is what it is responsible for, and before that, Mr Kogler, we are not afraid! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] We liberals want to ensure that airspace surveillance is ensured, and this is an essential point also of the reform of the German army which is now under way. We have also discussed this issue in the Federal Reform Commission, and you, too, Mr Pilz, should not be dissociated from the decisions of the Federal Army Reform Commission, in which we have clearly stated that a key point also of security policy in the future will be the perception of the Federal Army's permanent airspace surveillance, and airspace surveillance belongs to monitoring and safeguarding – and this includes an efficient aircraft that can be used for the future, which also has a useful life of several decades. This, ladies and gentlemen, simply offers the Eurofighter! The results of the German Parliamentary Reform Commission on this point are very important to us as a liberal. We also recognise a possible way to ensure that we can guarantee security for our population in the next few years. On the other points, we are also expecting the parties involved to comply with the results of this Commission. [[Congratulations on the liberals.]] These include, for example, the reduction of military service time, but also all other important areas: ensuring the comprehensive protection of homes, including the possibility for the Austrian army to face the new threats – the new threats of terrorism and all these difficulties that today's Western countries have to face. Ladies and gentlemen! We liberals want a strong federal army that guarantees the security of the people who stand for home protection, and we also want a functioning airspace surveillance. That is why we have also made these decisions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10973	The next item is the report by Mr Platter. Mr Federal Minister, also for you: 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e10991	Madam President. Estimated colleagues on the government bank! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! If, after very intensive, dedicated debates in the Court of Auditors, the debate on the type-decision in favour of the Eurofighter is now being held here in the House, I would like to repeat a statement by myself, which I made on 16 May. In the context of a special meeting in March 2004, it still applies today: I'm standing here with a good feeling. The Court of Auditors confirms to us the first: The type-approval in favour of the Eurofighter has been justified. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: That's wrong! ... can't even read the report!]] Secondly, I am here with a good feeling, because: The best bidder investigation is coherent, comprehensible and mathematically secured. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Yes, mathematically! ... the legal...!]] Thirdly, I am with a good feeling here, because: There are no signs of manipulation and gift acceptance. – That is what the top auditors of the Republic of Austria have found! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Bösch.]] [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: Just this question remains open!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are suggestions and criticisms, and also these suggestions and criticisms take our House, the Federal Ministry of State Defense, and I take them very seriously. Some points we have been able to disarm, other points are, of course, taken into account in the future procurement projects of the Federal Ministry of State Defense. But clearly, a clear statement is that the type decision for the Eurofighter was correct. But if you listen to this discussion, ladies and gentlemen, the question is: What's this about, please, really? – It is about the Social Democrats and the Green Party being against the procurement of airspace surveillance aircraft because it is popular. [[Abg. Lentsch: That's it!]] [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig: No! Even if it's unpopular!]] But, ladies and gentlemen, security policy has nothing to do with populism! [[Abg. Scheibner: Shouldn't have anything to do!]] Security is in front of populism! [[Abg. Dr. Glavischnig:...! You're wrong!]] I would also like to say the following: I expect a state-bearing party to assume responsibility – responsibility for the best possible safety for Austrians, not only on the ground, but of course also in the air. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Every military expert – everyone! – I’ll be right when I say that the biggest military threat comes from the air, of course. I do not need to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that under the Constitution we are obliged to take all measures to maintain the sovereignty of Austria – and this includes active airspace surveillance, including interception hunters. We are even under constitutional obligation to do so! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] There is therefore no alternative, ladies and gentlemen: There is no alternative to airspace surveillance, there is no alternative to airspace surveillance aircraft. [[Abg. Gaál: To Eurofighter, dear friend, there is an alternative!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! A last mention: Never forget that we could not do any major event in Austria if we had no airspace surveillance or no airspace surveillance aircraft. I am thinking in this context of the EU Presidency in the first half of 2006, I am thinking of the European Championship in 2008, and of course I am also thinking of the Olympic application of Salzburg, which has been awarded within Austria. The first question will be: Can you guarantee security in this area? – We must therefore also have active airspace monitoring for these reasons. Ladies and gentlemen of the SPÖ! It has already been said by my colleague Mr Fassleven: There are many facts and evidence that you have always been for active airspace surveillance. In 1985, under the red-blue coalition, you decided to purchase the Dragons, but at the same time made the decision that the models after the Draken will also be purchased immediately. In the years 1996/1997 it was decided that everything should be initiated for the successor succession. At the coalition negotiations in 2000, you have also clearly expressed your support for active airspace surveillance for the purchase of interceptors. Dear ladies and gentlemen! It's a shaky look that you're presenting here, and I think the public can take a picture of it. Mr Cap and Mr Kogler. If you are talking about the type decision and because you are very critical of it, I tell you the following: The 33-member Commission or experts have made a clear recommendation to give the Eurofighter the prize. What do you think if the Federal Government would have liked a different type of decision, how would you cry out! The Federal Government has therefore followed the recommendations of this Commission, and that is why this decision has been taken for Eurofighter. On the current discussions and the quality of the Eurofighter, I would like to introduce a few quotes to you. The head of the U.S. force was in Laage and made a test flight. Do you know what he said after the test flight – the head of the armed forces of America? – I quote: “I flew all Air Force jets. No one was as good as the Eurofighter.” – That’s what the head of the American armed forces said about a purely European product! [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Neudeck.]] Ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to quote Gerhard Schröder, who said on a visit to the Air Force: I was impressed by the enthusiasm of the pilots in the machine behind me. I was told that's an airplane for pilots and not just for those who love technology. So, my impression is really positive now. - Quote. Minister of Defense Peter Struck also said: This plane is worth every cent! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Government and I, as Minister of Defence, are responsible for security. We take this very seriously. Do it, too!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11169	Ladies and gentlemen! I'll let you know: The next round of speakers will be set by me at 5 minutes. With further high discipline, the last round is set with 4 minutes, with less discipline with 3 minutes. Next, Mr. Dr. Kräuber. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11190	So, Minister Platter, please don't be angry, but what you're telling the public here – there's nothing in the back and in the front! [[Live calls to the ÖVP.]] But this fate you share with all the other gentlemen on the government bank. [[Congratulations on representatives of the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Madam President. High house! The truth is: The Eurofighters are the most pointless investment in the Second Republic. This decision has arisen under very dubious circumstances, and in the counter-businesses you want to sell the population for stupid. – That’s really how it looks! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Lens: This is your personal...!]] Mr Bartenstein! Let's take a look at the much praised Airbus 380 opposite business. You yourself, Mr Minister, told Parliament in writing that individual counter-actions must comply with the principle of timeliness, the principle of additionality and the principle of domestic value-added in order to be recognized as counter-business. – You have signed this, Minister, and you will not want to dispute it. [[the speaker shall keep a document up to date]] What does that actually look like? – EADS already gave on 23 March. April 2002 – i.e. forty days before the deadline – is officially known: “FACC will become A-380 development partner.” – So how is it, Mr Minister, with the principle of timeliness and with the principle of additionality? As a result, an article in the “Standard” of 26. In March 2004, the Airbus order for aircraft suppliers was notified, but it is not a Eurofighter counter-business. Airbus manager Peter Klöpfer says it would not be right to present the new order as a concrete compensation business. After all, we have been dealing with development for two years. So, ladies and gentlemen, what are you doing? What does the Federal Chancellor and the Minister of Economic Affairs tell the public? In fact, this is a classic single-sourcing. This means, of course, that the subcontractor has long been in the planning phase. Mr Minister, make sure you make the counter-actions with FACC final! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! In the meantime, the Minister of Economic Affairs has come to the most absurd ideas: For example, there is the fashion company Magazzini Nico, which at that time sold to another Italian fashion company. Minister Bartenstein takes a stand and says that this is a €18 million Eurofighter counter-business! [[Cheerfulness of the Abg. May. Worm.]] Minister! Tens of thousands of eyewitnesses stand in front of this sales hall, which has always existed. In the other case, a prefabricated section hall has been built cheaply. – 18 million euros? In principle, Minister: What do shoes have to do with fighter planes? [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: That's where you take off your shoes!]] Or the University of Applied Sciences Joanneum, Graz: If I hadn't caught you, Minister, there would still be €78 000 as a counter-business for a single lesson. Yes, even by your own people from the Styrian ÖVP, namely, the Finance Councillor was directed to you: The scandal is in Vienna, and there are people in the Ministry of Economic Affairs with Minister Bartenstein who make one nonsense after another. – This is what the Styrian ÖVP says about your counter-businesses! No, ladies and gentlemen: Minister Bartenstein wants to sell the population for stupid here. He's clear! You, Mr Minister, have played any credit and any discount on the population! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! There will be an investigation committee. This day will come. Minister Grasser, your change of mind will be examined. The accusations of corruption by Dr. Haider – which he renewed only a few days ago – will also be spoken about to the Federal Government. The signature of the former Minister of Defence Scheibner will be examined, who signed for another model. [[Abg. Scheibner: Who doesn't exist!]] Irrespective of this committee of inquiry, ladies and gentlemen, of course, there must also be an independent Commission, which examines counter-measures, and this Commission should be chaired by the former President of the Court of Auditors. If you always claim everything is correct, everything is clean, everything has been transparent, I ask you: Then why do you fear the control of the devil's holy water, Mr. Fassl evening? [[Interruption at the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! They are probably afraid that this reproach is revealed by Chancellor Schüssel when he stood before the National Council election and said: The population doesn't cost anything that pays for the economy! Ladies and gentlemen! Another look into the Styria, because there the population is exposed to the stress, noise, dirt and dangers. What did the future ex-land chief Waltraud Klasnic say about this? [[Congratulations with representatives of the SPÖ.]] – I am not talking about the Semmering base tunnel, the Spielberg project, the ESTAG swamp. What did Mrs. Klasnic say about the counter-businesses? Ms. Klasnic said in 2002: The interceptors provide a Euro billion to the bullies. [[The speaker keeps a newspaper up to date with the headline “Civil Hunters Give Steirers Euro-billions”.]] Mr. Steirer Bartenstein! Where's this billion? – The only thing given here is a juicy election defeat for the ÖVP in autumn! [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11365	The next item is the speech by Mr Gahr. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11383	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! Member of the Herbs is here, calling the counter-businesses pointless and stupid, and on the other hand he makes press releases and calls for a billion in counter-businesses for the Styria. It is therefore continuing the Committee's path, Mr Herbs. They are trying to present this Eurofighter report – and this is the only one here – as scandalous, and the Greens are in this series. From our point of view, these counter-businesses and the type selection are a clear task for Austria's safety, and we take it seriously with our safety. That is why we are in favour of this procurement, and therefore we are also in favour of counter-businesses. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] These Court of Auditors debates in the Committee are probably the longest debates in history. We have discussed more than 40 hours, we have discussed in every respect, we have also called for information, and there has been an open and objective discussion – apart from some of the failures of my colleague Pilz, which I would like to address even further. The Court of Auditors report is not a scandalous report, it is a very positive report with critical comments. One thing you also have to say: In any case, it would be likely that our experts and the expertise in the ministries were employed, once in the Ministry of Defence, where they were fully involved in the technology and the requirement of these devices; in the Ministry of Finance, which has developed financing variants; in the Ministry of Economic Affairs, where it is concerned to manage profitable counter-businesses for Austria. On the other hand, I was very shocked that Mr Pilz, on several occasions in the Committee, also questioned the objectivity of the Court of Auditors: that he did not really research this or that. Col. Pilz has performed as the chief examiner of the nation. That's probably not how it can be, but our officials, our experts have worked neatly and cleanly. Everyone can do something better in life, but I have to thank you for that. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have a request to Mr Kogler for the committee to hold a meeting. Of course, we have always left the opposition to hold the meeting, but the last committee meetings in the Court of Auditors have by no means been objective. In my opinion, Mr Kogler has not guided the meetings objectively and has not conducted the meetings within the meaning of the Rules of Procedure. He's allowed personal attacks. Mr Pilz has said that we are Abkassier, “ordinary, unworkers”; the FPÖ and ÖVP delegates would have used it in the “Hintern” and not in the “head”, and other such expressions were used by Mr Pilz. At this point, Mr Pilz, I would like to ask you to apologize to the mandates, and if you have only one spark of propriety, you will do so. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] The fact is that the Court of Auditors has clearly stated that the Eurofighter is the best bidder and that the Eurofighter is a modern and forward-looking device. The fact is that, I believe, many experts are aware of this, and you have to be able to rely on the experts: The Eurofighter is air compatible, the Eurofighter flies sensationally. ==References====External links== In January 2004, Eurofighter flew: The plane is more than flightable and has impressed me as a pilot. – We believe the expert, we believe the experts and the practitioners. Now to the counter-actions: In my opinion, everyone knows that we need air safety and therefore airspace monitoring. This gives Austria the unique chance of counter-businesses. Austria needs the gateway to the European Economic Area, and many Austrian businesses – as Tyroleans I can say: many Tyrolean companies – will benefit from these counter-businesses. [[Abg. Riepl: Do you really believe that?]] We're on our way, you'll see. You have no responsibility for the economy. We face economic challenges, we are talking about jobs for citizens and nothing else. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Like any other country in Europe, Austria will defend its airspace properly. Switzerland has a hundred aircraft in operation. Austria is a sports and tourism country, we should have learned from Galtür. It was said before: We don't need that! Unfortunately, this world is not quite certain either. In 2004, we had 42 war venues, and as a result we have a duty to do something. We need a common security and defence policy in Europe. I think many would wish with their conscience that they have no Eurofighters. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] But we need it for safety, and our citizens deserve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11452	The next speaker was Mr Dr. Pillow. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11470	My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! Yeah, it's time for an excuse. It is time for all those Members to apologize to the taxpayers who are sitting in this House and its committees and who have only one in their minds: to hinder the work of this House with all their powers! That is exactly what I have experienced in the Committee on the Court of Auditors: Members will cash €7 000 a month 14 times a year to prevent Parliament from questioning witnesses in order to prevent being invited, questioned and controlled! [[Abg. Neudeck: Gross!]] A whole night we were sitting in the Committee on the Court of Auditors, not only could we have questioned the Minister of Finance, not just the Minister of Economic Affairs, not only the entire leadership of the Ministry of Defence, but many others. [[Abg. Scheibner: Unscrupulous of the Rules of Procedure!]] [[Abg. Murauer: Tolerance of the house!]] You, ladies and gentlemen of ÖVP and FPÖ, prefer to sit through, vote in favour of everything and finally disqualify the Court of Auditors. [[Abg. Neudeck: Where to spend hours...!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But you and the chairman have done this!]] For this, a public excuse would be the minimum, which is from your side. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Secondly, Federal Minister Platter! With all appreciation – the Court of Auditors has not found that Eurofighter was rightly identified as the best bidder. This was an official's draft, and then the former President of the Court of Auditors, the President of the Court of Auditors at the time, removed the word "rightfully" from the draft because he himself was convinced of it: In what the Court of Auditors knew, it was no longer possible to speak of “justifiably as the best bidder. ” [[Abg. Scheibner: But that would be an inadmissible...!]] That is to say, the Court of Auditors has identified a number of suspects, but at the end of the day only a parliamentary committee of inquiry can clarify them in a final and comprehensive manner. You know as well as we do that sooner or later we will have this committee. [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: That's something new! That's a new interpretation!]] His most important witness will certainly not be the Minister of Defence, but the Minister of Finance, because he must explain why he has done everything in his power to influence the outcome in favour of Eurofighter! Why did a Finance Minister of the Republic of Austria even go into the suspicion of the abuse of office to help only one type of decision that friends from Magna to EADS represented? Why has a Minister of Finance committed itself to carrying out the most expensive product in the government against the Minister of Defence and against the leadership of the Ministry of Defence? Why has a finance minister constantly intervened in the type decision, although everyone not only in the Ministry of Finance knows that the type decision does not fall within the competence of the Ministry of Finance at all? Why is Karl-Heinz standing Grasser also in the question of the interception hunters in the centre of suspicion of a gross manipulation and an influence on the main investment decision of the Second Republic? Why has Karl-Heinz Grasser contributed to the fact that the most important business of the Second Republic has at the same time become the most difficult business of the Second Republic? To this day – and this is the only thing one has to blame, not Grasser, but Minister Bartenstein – the “platform counter-businesses” that up to now could realize 100 million schilling in serious business – everything else is currently being challenged by the experts – will keep one away: Why doesn't she even get the counter-business contract presented? Why is it even kept secret from its own “platform counter-businesses ”? Therefore, in order to achieve at least something positive today and perhaps to help at least a few counter-businesses, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] Perhaps this brings the very first hint of seriality into this painful affair at least in the Ministry of Economic Affairs. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11622	The motion for a resolution which has just been tabled by Mr Pilz is sufficiently supported, duly tabled and is therefore under negotiation. The application reads as follows: [[Quoted print version removed]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11674	The next speaker is Mr Neudeck. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11692	Madam President. Mr. Vice-Chancellor! Mr. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! It is common in novels and filming that the filmer – I would suggest to the ORF here that he does this also in the claims of colleagues Cap, Kogler, Herbs and Pilz – shows the following: ‘Any similarity with living persons or facts is purely accidental and not intended.’ The same questions are always asked here and the same claims are made. These questions have already been asked and answered by the Minister of Finance in special meetings, by urgent and non-necessary questions with over a hundred questions. The Greens in the Court of Auditors of the former Minister of Defence, Scheibner, were no longer required as a person of information, because he had already given a public opinion here in plenary and said that this Council of Ministers' proposal, with which Mr Pilz is always waving around, is a Council of Ministers' presentation on which a copy of the signature is on it. The review you require by an expert is not possible with a copy, because it can be both the document and the signature, only the copy was made, by whoever, but not by the Ministry of Defense. - So much for your claims. Ladies and gentlemen! This largest procurement process of the Second Republic was exemplaryly prepared by the then competent Federal Minister Scheibner. The invitation to tender, the decision-making process in a Commission with 33 members, was transparent and, at the request of the then Minister, the whole process was also examined by the Court of Auditors. This is the problem the opposition now has: This process has been transparent, transparent, audited by the Court of Auditors and carried out a positive report of the Court of Auditors. The scandalisation campaign of SPÖ and Greens has its origin in an incontrovertible relationship with the defence of the state, but certainly not in the procurement process itself. This is their problem, especially the problem of Mr Pilz. If he's here. says that we would have prevented people from being heard for nights, so this is also wrong. It was he who held us for 18 hours, from three o'clock in the afternoon to nine o'clock the next day, with his lectures and constant repetitions. Every time a Member comes back, he started his lectures from the front because he felt he might have missed something. – So much to work in the Court of Auditors Committee. The chairman of the Committee of the Court of Auditors and his deputy, Herbs, has never been able to do so in an unprecedented way, and I say once: – not broken, but bent, by not letting the Committee meet for weeks and even buying that the Court of Auditors' reports could not be taken on further agendas, because they could not be dealt with in good time. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not the procurement of these Scandal airspace surveillance aircraft, but the procedure in the Court of Auditors Committee by the Chairman and his alternate from the Greens and the SPÖs. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! This device is certainly not war material. Because today – it has already been said – such a device is necessary for every major event, so that you do not get a European Championship, no World Championship, no Olympics, no major congresses in our country if you do not have surveillance aircraft in the given form. The following shall be noted: There were no irregularities. The transparency and objectivity introduced by the then Minister of Defense Herbert Scheibner was and is exemplary. The renewal of the Austrian interception hunters is a necessary investment in the security of our country and at the same time an important economic factor. Untrue and disbelief the SPÖ operates: If they had entered the government, they would have made the same decision. This is reflected in the negotiation protocols between ÖVP and SPÖ. We stand by our decision, reject the frights and also refuse to change the subject of political change. Ladies and gentlemen! Austria needs these interception hunters, and the entrepreneurs of our home country can benefit from them.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11762	Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser. Mr President, you too: 7 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11781	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! High house! I think it is well known to you that the Court of Auditors has already carried out three conduct checks on the follow-up to the airspace surveillance aircraft, two of which have been carried out and a performance review is currently under the opinion procedure. In the course of the initial review, the preparation of the post-purchasing period from 1993 to the first binding tendering period was made on 10 June 1993. ==References====External links== The recommendations or findings can also be read in the corresponding report – Perception Report 2002/03. The report on the agenda today – I believe that this is important with regard to the speeches already made – was precisely the starting point, namely the first binding supply collection on 10 October. ==References====External links== ==References== I would also like to mention that the occasion of this review is a request from the Minister of Defense Herbert Scheibnergewesen, who asked for the internal proceedings of the Federal Ministry of State Defense to be reviewed in relation to the type decision, and who also pointed out that the suspicions in the media and in the public were repeatedly expressed that criminal acts or manipulations of the evaluation results could be present. The Court’s audit was carried out in two sub-areas from November 2002 to April 2003. The one section covered the type decision in the Federal Ministry of State Defense, the second area the examination of counter-business offers in the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour. The main arrests in this report are in the sense that no reference to manipulations or forbidden gift acceptances or other criminal acts has been made to the examination. I would also like to point out that, in the light of the standards laid down by the Federal Ministry of Defence, namely technical scope of performance, commercial provisions, cost-benefit analysis, the Eurofighters have rightly been identified as the best bidder. The result of the cost-benefit analysis was comprehensible and mathematically secured by the Federal Ministry of Defence, but the evaluation was very much dependent on the definition of the individual criteria, namely the allocation key of the target to the must-use points. I would also like to point out that the cost-benefit analysis has shown that there was no equivalence of offers. Therefore, the Court of Auditors cannot understand the view of the senior military, which has pointed out that there is supposed to be a level playing field. This equivalence is not reflected in the evaluation results. Furthermore, the reference to different purchasing or operating costs is not justified because the information on operating costs at that time is not fully available. It also pointed out the involvement of the Federal Ministry of Finance. The Court of Auditors has missed a timely written definition of the BMF in respect of the payment variant in the context of the audit. ==References====External links==* Official website ==References== I would also like to point out that at the time the Ministry of Finance did not provide a cost limit for the procurement, although this procurement should not be carried out from the national defence budget but from the budget as such. I would also like to draw attention to the Council of Ministers' presentation of the second report. July 2002, in which the price of payment for delivery of €1,791 million was quoted and not the price corresponding to the chosen payment variant, which is just over €2 billion. In this context, however, it should also be noted that the cost of life or the cost of life determined does not represent operating costs. These costs included only individual cost elements and not the cost of basic training, the necessary infrastructure costs and the share of common costs. With regard to the countermeasures, it should be noted that the Court of Auditors has already repeatedly been informed by the Member of Parliament of the fact that certain countermeasures have already been settled or recognised. This was not the case at the time of this examination. That is to say, we have been subject to the counter-business bids as such, but we have not been able to check the individual counter-contracts because no invoices are available at this time. However, I would also like to point out that the Court of Auditors did not understand and determine the extent to which the proposed counter-actions were actually included in the type-decision, because, on the one hand, there was no written procedure in this respect, on the other, the documentation was not sufficient and there was no reference to this in the Council of Ministers' presentation. Madam President, since the speaking time is limited by 7 minutes, from the Court of Auditors' point of view, I would like to summarise the following recommendations which we believe must be implemented, namely the determination of the actual operating costs to be expected, the establishment of a cost accounting system analysis for the operating costs involved, the collection of proof of the feasibility of the technical requirements, including the assurance of the full airworthiness by a practical flight test, a review of the feasibility of the delivery plan, and an objective, transparent and comprehensive documentation of the evaluation procedures of the counter-businesses, i.e. an examination of the mathematical assessment model used on its plausibility, plausibility and evaluation of the implementation. In this connection, I refer to the further examination of the Court of Auditors, which took place in the Council of Ministers on 2 February. ==References====External links== ==References== As a result, further questions can be answered by the Court of Auditors. I would like to assure you on this occasion that I will do everything I can to present this report to the National Council as soon as possible. I assure you that the report will be submitted in the first half of 2005 so that you can discuss this information and recommendations in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11859	In view of the shortage of time and the debates in the presidential term, I will determine the duration of the speeches of the last round to 3 minutes per speaker per speaker. Next, Mrs Mag. All right, let's talk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e11880	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Members of the Government! High house! For the next 30 years, pensioners, tax payers, care payers, pupils must pay for this most expensive wrong decision of the Second Republic. [[Abg. Scheibner: Oh, you!]] 5 billion € to the next 30 decades, which means for them that they need to tighten the belt tighter. [[Abg. Scheibner: “30 decades” – something is probably wrong, Mrs. Colleague!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: This is a PISA-related failure!]] In addition to this most expensive misconception, the practicality is not given. A report by the German news magazine “Der Spiegel” of the weekend says that the protection of the pilots is being weakened. Minister! I ask you: Where does your responsibility remain if the protection for the pilots is not given? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Germany acquired eight aircraft last year. These eight aircraft have completed only 300 hours of flight, otherwise they will be in repair halls. Where's your responsibility? [[Abg. Scheibner: (in the direction of SPÖ) They put the whole position together again!]] [[Abg. Fauland: Completely unsuspecting! A game of mourning!]] The work in the Court of Auditors was characterised by the fact that the wall of silence and concealment was built by the members of the government. There has been no loading of information persons who could have provided information, there have been banal questions and answers games with the Minister on the part of the government groups, while the questions raised by members of the opposition have not been addressed in any way. This most expensive misconception of the Second Republic was carried out without discussion. There was a lot of cover-up. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] In autumn 2002 – and with this I bring you another example of how this government conceals – posters were hung up in the election campaign by the Freedom Party with the inscription: We stopped the interception shop! – In 2003, however, the purchase took place. The population was fomented just as the signatorys of the popular desire for the purchase of interception hunters. 624 807 people have spoken against it. Where's your responsibility? They're wiping over there! But I'm telling you: At the next election there will be more ex-ministers at FPÖ than voters!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12000	The next speaker was Mr Murauer. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12019	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear gentlemen on the Government Bank! Dear Mrs Lap! In one I can give you the right: The security in our country is not everything, but without certainty everything is nothing! – And that, please, remember, once again, when you consider that you could use the money for other things instead of a security investment. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] This is actually not worthy of your argument, I would almost have said, but obviously that is so right for you. Ladies and gentlemen! The Court of Auditors and its officials, who are widely appreciated, whom we call specialists and who are qualified as professionals and who enjoy the highest recognition, have examined. The President of the Court of Auditors has now presented his report in brief. His officials have examined and we in Parliament have also discussed this at various meetings, in special sessions, in emergency or, as one colleague said, in less urgent questions. So far, everything is all right with the procurement of these planes, these interceptors. Ladies and gentlemen of the Social Democracy and the Greens! Tell the population that you are against airspace surveillance, that you want to take the risk of releasing the airspace. They say: This is not our problem, we look out the window, the sky is blue, so there are no dangers for us. As a sovereign state, as an independent state, we have no control whatsoever. – Say that you want to take this risk consciously! We from the People's Party and we from this government do not take this risk of security for our country and for the population. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] Ladies and gentlemen! You should admit, honestly, that there is no country that has no interceptors, no airspace surveillance. On the contrary! It is generally recognized that the sensitivity of the airspace is increasing, and it is our highest responsibility to do everything to secure our airspace as well and that all these procurements around the capture hunter...... – thank you many times! – the Eurofighters have gone well. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Eurofighter!]] [[Abg. Silhavy: Teurofighter!]] Even if you are always talking about “loyalty”,“ dizziness, ” and “moving, ” this has not happened. [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Are you saying the Eurofighter actually has a business class?]] Ladies and gentlemen! Citizens can rely on this government to continue to take security as a central concern of their policies and to do so.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12097	The next speaker was Mrs Dr. Moser. 3 minutes speaking time. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12115	Madam President. Dear Members of the Government! Ladies and gentlemen! It is clear that we are discussing the type decision today, and I am very grateful to you, President of the Court of Auditors, that you have spoken plain text again. The report by the Court of Auditors discussed here clearly shows that this decision has been taken on a lack of basis! The President-in-Office of the Council made it clear that: The question of operating costs has remained open, the question of counter-businesses has not been checked, the question of payment procedures has not been clarified. This is exactly where we are going, because it is the most expensive procurement process in the Second Republic. It turns around €5.6 billion! [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is becoming more and more! That is already unscrupulous if you also include the successor model in the bill!]] It is therefore a volume beyond which we cannot pass by, but it must also be discussed seriously in the Committee on the Court of Auditors. The control mechanisms need to be used, and it must be thanked to the chairman of this committee for not having to invite the abuses that have taken place by the government parties by practicing a refusal of information by not having to load people who know something with a much more open-minded committee chairmanship than usual. You have to give him the right! [[Abg. Scheibner: What does that mean “offensive ”?]] [[Abg. Neudeck: The Presidency must be objective and not offensive!]] In particular you, Mr Fassleven, who you know the resort, must also know the following, because the decision, which type of interception hunter is purchased, has already taken the resort, only the decision has fallen in a different direction. May I quote, Mr. former Minister of Defense? What does the leader of the group of fieldcrafts, aircrafts say? ‘As a result of the established near-equivalentity of the bids and compliance with airspace monitoring requirements in Austria, it is proposed to give preference to the product with lower purchase and operating costs, i.e. SAAB/Bae’S GRIPEN.’ So you can read this in a competent document of the responsible from the place of business. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dr. Fassleven: Haven't you listened? The President made a clear reference to this and found that equality had not been achieved!]] [[Abg. Scheibner: The President has just said the opposite!]] And how has it been decided, Minister Grasser? – For the most expensive product! Air space monitoring in Austria is gilded, while the population on the ground is being called to victims, and this is against the expertise of the defence department and the audit competence of the Court of Auditors. With your majority, you have prevented a serious acquisition and have been properly controlled. And unfortunately – and this is the consequence – the bill pays the taxpayer/taxer. This is wrong because we need money in education, we need money for universities, we need money to secure pensions, especially for young people. [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign.]] And what you're doing, that's money-shipping for expensive airspace surveillance!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12223	Next item is the report by Mr Fauland. Ladies and gentlemen, three minutes' speaking time for you. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12273	I am always surprised, especially when you look at the social democrats, how they hold SPÖ responsible for the security of the Austrian population. It has, I think, spoken for itself everything you have presented here, and the citizens can take a picture of what you understand as a responsibility. But before we come to the Court of Auditors' perceptive report and, above all, the type of decision, which should be the central issue of today, I already need to look at the procedure in committee. The committee was in my opinion – Mr Kogler, you are already on the way! – and I had the pleasure of being a contemporary witness, marked by the efforts of Chairman Kogler and Vice-Chairman, colleagues herbs, this delicate subject, as you do very often make to use it medially for your self-representation and to argue far beyond the matter. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler]] To make capital out of it is actually the wrong way! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] In addition – and this is even more objectionable – you have also attacked the Court of Auditors as such in your speech donations, which were sometimes unnecessary, and in fact the Court of Auditors is under the responsibility of the Court of Auditors that it would not have researched optimally and you could have done so much better. Everything should be based on the fact that everything is moving towards a committee of inquiry, because only you seem to be in possession of the full truth and the Court of Auditors is only partially informed. That is certainly not the right thing to do. In terms of content, the speeches in the Committee, when one let those of the Social Democracy happen, were comparable to classical readings, readings of prepared texts, in which one sometimes doubted whether the people who pretended to do so already knew what it was all about in their words. [[Phone call at the SPÖ.]] – Well, Mrs. Colleague, remember! – With the Greens, on the other hand – I had to follow the “joy” for a very long time – everything changed between repetitions, conspiracy theories, conjectures and speculations that one has tried to present as the truth. But now on the real topic of the type decision: The Eurofighter was – and rightly so – rated as the most suitable aircraft for Austria. In principle, it must be said that a decision for the flu would have flown 50 percent of the total money into America, as the flu is fitted with more than 50 percent of American parts. The Eurofighter is the only truly European aircraft, the only aircraft in which we are guaranteed for 40 years, regardless of the Americans, to get all the spare parts we need. And you have to say... – I didn't hear a bell until now, and that's why I speak. [[Call the SPÖ:Ready time!]] Over 650 aircraft of this type will be introduced into Europe in the long term, Austria will have 18, Germany will have 180, Italy will have 121 aircraft. In conjunction with Italy and Germany, closer cooperation will be achieved, a collapse in security policy, including with regard to air. This cooperation will also help the Austrian population, the Austrians, to live in a secure Austria where security does not stop one or two metres above the head of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12324	Next, Mr Gaál. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12343	Madam President. Mr. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! With every new detail about the Eurofighter purchase, the size of the deserter is becoming more and more evident. Mr Federal Minister, your interpretation of the Court of Auditors' report already bears witness to a very one-sided view, because when you read through and listen to what the President has formulated here today, the criticism of the opposition is confirmed in essence, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If you are strenghtening neutrality and solidarity here and calling on the Constitution – that is what we are talking about, ladies and gentlemen! But for security in Austria and for the maintenance of neutrality, you do not need a fighter bomber. These luxury fighter jets are designed for the air battle, for the air war and have nothing to do with active airspace surveillance at all! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] They are not necessary and financially non-controllable. They mean a disaster for Austria and a disaster for the Austrian Federal Army, ladies and gentlemen! [[New applause at the SPÖ.]] If you, colleague Dr. Fassleven, take responsibility, I'll tell you in old friendship: Responsibility also means that tax money is used sparingly, economically and meaningfully, and Eurofighter procurement is the very opposite: It means grossly negligent handling of taxpayers' money. For this purchase Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us say a definite no! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] If the company EADS, which has received the award, speaks over and over again of the fact that everything is running according to plan and one is able to deliver 2006, I would like to stress that the tendering requirement was that the delivery should take place in 2005. – In this respect too, the tender criteria have not been observed! The issue of duty, Mr Fassleven, was in favour of EADS – that is to be read! – amended at the expense of the Republic and the taxpayers. Mr. Federal Minister, I can only say: Make appropriate efforts on the part of the Federal Government! There is an exit clause – let's get out of the contract! This costs millions of euros, but we save billions of taxpayers, Austrians and Austrians. That should be the way we're going! We Social Democrats promise: When we come to the government in 2006, this purchase will be reversed!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12412	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12430	Madam President. High house! In the Court of Auditors, the opposition requested that light be brought into the dark. – I can say: We have completed the report in over 40 hours and found that there is no darkness in this matter! [[Abg. Riepl: It's not dark, it's dark!]] It is quite clear that there are no consequences in the sense of political responsibility, because the process was correct. The opposition has attempted to transform the Court of Auditors into an investigative committee unlawfully. The latter, however, is not, but it is about discussing the Court of Auditors report within this committee, and we have discussed it and we have not refused to control it. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn shall take over the chairmanship.]] What would have brought all your charges with which you wanted to scandalize the whole thing? – Fierce, Commenda, Wagner, Haider, Scheibner, Grasser, Barnet, Corrieri, Pleiner, Hillingrathner, Katter, Bernegger: We should all have heard that the Court of Auditors has already presented a very clear report. Mr Pilz has also tried to scandalize the whole work. He spoke of total refusal to work and sabotage in Parliament's work, and he meant that we were presented by the Clubobmann at the Nosenring, we would only sit down instead of working, we would have turned off certain body functions, there was a state of control and so on. We had to listen to this for hours! High house! What is the opposition really about? In contrast to Mr Kogler, I suspect that the opposition is generally against airspace surveillance aircraft and not just against the type decision. It rejects an objectively correct decision, and I wonder: What then is the airspace to be monitored and secured? With dragon flyers or paragliders? If we were to buy such a thing for the army, you might even agree! For an alibi solution we are certainly not to have! This is a military policy solution. It is about the acquisition of the most future object, because we take the safety and neutrality of Austria seriously, and for us the safety for which we are responsible does not end two meters above the ground – as obviously for the SPÖ and the Greens! High house! It is quite clear what benefits the acquisition of the Eurofigther has. Firstly, this is not an island solution. More than 600 aircraft are now purchased, and the armies of Great Britain, Germany, Italy and Spain are equipped with this state-of-the-art device. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Gaßner.]] That is, we are then compatible and do not have anything else that is not used anywhere else. [[Abg. Gradwell: Compatible for what?]] Secondly, the utility analysis has shown that while we invest more money, we also get a lot more aircraft. This is certainly not the cheapest, but the best solution. We have heard today from the President of the Court of Auditors that this is the aircraft with the highest performance. Thirdly, it is a completely new development, and not something that is already technically obsolete: It is an aircraft that is being evaluated continuously in the four countries I mentioned, NATO and the USA. Fourth, the duration of use is 30 to 40 years. So this is really a long-term solution, and the invested money is on its way! Last point: Fifthly, we have agreed to a fixed price, while the other countries still have certain problems with their prices. They used to read that we bought badly because the other countries had lower prices. However, they are involved in the development costs and still need to be re-examined in the development process. And as we heard from the President of the Court of Auditors, this was not a wrong procedure. There has been no call for proposals, but it has been a negotiated procedure in the competition, in which the best aircraft, which of course costs more, has been chosen. In this sense, we get the best device for Austrian security, and I am convinced that the scandalization you intend will not succeed.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12489	The next speaker was Mr Faul. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12508	Mr President. My dear gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! It sounded like a stairway when Mr Gahr used the Galtür disaster case here today to justify the need for the acquisition of interception hunters. He really can't tell anyone in Austria! If Mr Gahr comes out and says that the negotiations have lasted 40 hours, we have to say the order in half: Mr Gahr! 20 hours of it you slept, although not well, but you all slept! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! For us, it was very surprising that the two government parties – and very clearly the ÖVP Group – so vehemently opposed our desire to load Minister of Finance Grasser. In the end, the Minister for Finance has come out quite clearly today. Its approach and intervention ensure that the decision is as pleasing as it has fallen. In my opinion, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP: It was feared that the Minister of Finance might have brought light to the details of the counter-businesses that would have been accessible to only a few knowledgeable people in your parties by means of not very skillful and unfortunate spontaneous statements, as in the Homepage affair. Maybe, my dear ones. Ladies and gentlemen, he is also a person of concern, because he has created a retreat to these economic circles, Magna and EADS, through the decisions he has influenced himself, and he will very soon need this withdrawal very urgently! A word on the counter-actions: Mr Bartenstein, you and the colleagues of the so-called Economic Party explain to me what makes sense if you first need to “create” great Austrian companies so that you can create a certain liquidity and then buy interception hunters that no one really needs in Austria. You are trying hard to present us today with the counter-actions that have in fact been no counter-businesses and which have not been shown to have done a single job! But what happened on the other side? – Through the sale of tobacco plants, hundreds of jobs in Austria are gone, and through the deterioration of VA Tech in Styria we will lose thousands of jobs. You will still experience this, and you will also have to answer it, Minister of State. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] What remains for us are fighter planes which no one needs for military use, as Mr Gaál has said, but which are also completely inappropriate for civil use and which in the worst case will give us much more operating costs, namely estimated € 500 million per year. This money will be missing for education and research and for the social sector in Austria, and that is very, very sad, Mr Minister!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12568	From the government bank, Mr. Bartenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12586	Mr President. Mr Platter! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take a position on the counter-businesses, Mr Faul, among other things, because the idea of Airbus A 380 a few days ago in Toulouse provides a good opportunity to show us and you once again the success of the counter-businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The largest, most economical and most modern passenger aircraft in the world, which brings Europe a remarkable technological advantage over the USA, opposite Boeing, is an aircraft that is highly equipped with technology and related parts from Austria. [[Abg. Gradwell: The Airbus wouldn't have been built if Austria hadn't ordered the Eurofighter? - Oh, great!]] I can tell you that the Airbus A 380 in its first construction tranche will be equipped with parts from Austria by 2020 – especially the company FACC, on which I come to speak – in an order of approximately € 1 billion. My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! 1 billion €, these are hundreds of jobs over many years! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] In order to mention the figures currently available to the House: Mr Pilz has gone far out of place here. He said it was 100 million schilling. Deputy Pilz! The counter-business platform has so far recognised € 167 million in counter-businesses, with regard to submissions in our home until 31. May last year, and I can tell you that EADS has so far brought to our attention a contract volume including the 730 million € large order or the large order to FACC of 1.66 billion €. If I count on the order of thousands of military trucks to the Ministry of Defense of the United Kingdom of Great Britain, which seems as safe as possible from MAN's side, then you already have a contract sum of significantly more than € 2 billion. – Well-notified: These are, of course, orders that will be processed in annual instalments in the coming years and then submitted to us for recognition. Mr Herzegovina once again has an APA issue of 23. April 2002 quoted, but once again incomplete. I commend your remarks, honourable Member, because now I am referring to the quote of Mr Stephan, the managing director of the company FACC. [[Abg. Dr. Herbs: This is your friend, Mr. Minister!]] Speaking of friend: What about Mr Androsch? Is that your friend? – Maybe not, but he's at least Your party friend and owner and co-owner of the very successful company FACC, a highly respected personality. You don't agree with him more often. In the case of Spielberg, you have also called federal funding for the project, which, unfortunately, has now been withdrawn, scandalously. Androsch said this: He absolutely wants to insist on being able to do it himself in the case of investment projects. In my view, that is also a matter of course. Herbs are against Androsch, but a match Simmering against Kapfenberg is a small thing, ladies and gentlemen, dear! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] As a steirer I am on the side of Kapfenberg, no question, and second on the side of Androsch. This is interesting because you are the Steirer in yourself, but Androsch is better aware of the interests there! Ladies and gentlemen! Stephan said on 23. April 2002, i.e. several weeks before the type decision, to ask whether his company would receive the Airbus order even if the decision against the Eurofighter failed, in the O-Ton: “This is difficult to answer. No.” – This is a quote from Mr Stephan. Mr. Stephan, the managing director, said at a press conference on 18 February. In August 2004, however, FACC also created around 150 new domestic jobs for its counterparts. Mr. Stephan – and now I need my glasses, because this issue is a little small printed – spoke to the “Small Newspaper” on 24 April. January 2005, just two days ago – Mr. Herbs, that will interest you, because this is a primarily Styrian, important medium – and the interview begins with the question to Mr. Stephan: “Did you have the orders for Airbus A 380 without EADS counter-businesses?” Answer from Walter Stephan, FACC: ‘The counter-business agreement has facilitated Airbus...’. Covering your calls Your lack of knowledge and your bad conscience, Mr. Deputies! Stephan said: “The counter-business agreement has facilitated Airbus to take the risk of buying so much from us. Otherwise our orders would have been much smaller.” More evidence that the Airbus orders to FACC have a lot to do with Eurofighter procurement, I can't offer you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Herbs.]] I'm sorry, but it's enough for us, probably never! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! As for the note concerning the FH Joanneum – and I add TU Graz –: It was my house that, in difficult discussions with these educational institutions and with EADS, ensured that the important contributions for higher education courses, for institute facilities and for EEADS were continued, although we could by far not fulfill all the wishes in terms of the volume of accounting these contributions as counter-businesses. However, we have achieved a result here in the interest of the students of the FH Joanneum and TU Graz, in spite of your intervention, Mr Herbe. We know how you handle this! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! The President of the Court of Auditors, Mr Moser, rightly referred, or from my point of view, to the fact that the Court of Auditors did not understand the extent to which the countermeasures had been incorporated into the type-decision. Why? – Ladies and gentlemen, very much! Let us bear in mind the rules which say that, according to its internal provisions, the Federal Ministry of State Defense would only have had to ask the Ministry of Economic Affairs for the supply of counter-businesses and include them in its decision if, according to the offer, the Federal Ministry of Defence had to ask the Ministry of Economic Affairs for its best offer. Now, in turn, I'm bringing our President of the Court of Auditors to the O-tone: There was no equivalence of the offers, i.e. at no time the need to ask us this. Mr President, I know that this assessment scheme is optimising, and we will, but it has not played a role. It only played a role that I also played in the Council of Ministers of the 2nd century. On July 22, 2002, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, the providers of grips and Eurofighters essentially fulfil the tendering conditions, unlike the third provider, because both suppliers did not do so completely in terms of pönale. We then negotiated the best possible trade agreement, and I am very interested in discussing both the Committee and the plenary report of the Court of Auditors on the counter-business agreement. Mr Pilz, this is the way! It is not a question of assigning highly confidential documents to the members of the Counter-Trade Platform now – you probably would like that! – but it is about the Court of Auditors to examine this and then to discuss this counter-business agreement, apart from the fact that it has been presented to the public in its substantial things, even long ago, highly esteemed Mr Pilz. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pilz: It's all wrong!]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! These counter-contracts are therefore on good terms with the large orders to FACC, with high probability also to MAN, but also with many orders for small and medium-sized enterprises in Austria. FACC alone employs 70 suppliers from Austria, including 60 small and medium-sized enterprises according to FACC. However, there are also small and medium-sized direct suppliers, and I hope that the weight will be very slowly extended from pure aeronautical and aerospace supplies to other technology fields. However, we still have many years to do so, because the processing of this total of € 4 billion or 240 percent of the net purchase price of the Eurofighters in the counter-business volume is to be extended over a period of 15 years, and we have just a good year behind us, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12683	Mr Ledolter has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12702	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Today, the opposition parties strive to be fair again, but quite unsuccessful in order to put things into a light by constantly recurring arguments and constant repetitions, which does not correspond to the facts and truth. [[Mr Mandak and Mr Faul.]] Also the value of entertainment, ladies and gentlemen, including you, Mr Faul, was better than in today's demonstrations! It's essentially going on the same scheme again and again. The argument is: We don't need these planes. And if, bearing in mind the sovereignty of our country – even if the additional reference to neutrality, which is otherwise always so high by the opposition – is argued that airspace surveillance is very much necessary that the post-purchase order of the hour is, it is always said in this context: It will not work anyway, these planes are useless and expensive and whatever. What is particularly disturbing to me, ladies and gentlemen, is the fact that it really does not take any more account of the needs that Austria is facing, but above all that there is no longer any respect for the interests of the economy, and thus ultimately also the interests of our country. The attempt to scandalize is in the foreground, ultimately also the attempt to criminalize by repeatedly interpreting things inside, secreting things that are absolutely not in harmony with the facts. It has still had a certain cabaretistic value with colleagues Cap and his old socks washed over and over again, and finally it has become embarrassing, ladies and gentlemen, with the criminalization actions of my colleagues Pilz and Herbs. The Federal Minister for Economic Affairs has pointed out the counter-acts with EADS in real precision. Ladies and gentlemen, I recommend you: If you talk to the employees in the companies concerned – which are otherwise so much at your heart – then you will find that there are very attractive counter-businesses and, above all, resulting jobs. This ranges from FACC to MAN to the company Test-Fuchs in the Waldviertel, Phion, wild and many more that benefit and participate here. And the difference between settled counter-businesses and start-up, contractually fixed counter-businesses should have been understood by all the Members of the House. I believe that it is therefore really appropriate to congratulate the Minister for Defence on the process and decision, because in the end, the first flight of the aircraft to be acquired took place more than a year ago by an Austrian pilot, and this was very successful. However, I would also like to express my appreciation to the Minister for Economic Affairs for the competent handling of the monitoring of counter-businesses. He does so in cooperation with the Wifo, in cooperation with the Economic University and the social partners who accompany and comment on these purchases. This means we have a system that will be certified for the next 30, 40 years and can guarantee the security of our country.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12756	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12774	Mr President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Bartenstein, I think it is a bit strange if you here judge the conscience of Members from the government bank. I don't think you're allowed to do that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] So much for the first time. Secondly, The fact is that FACC got the order safely before the Eurofighter decision. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: No, that's wrong!]] That's fact. [[Federal Minister Dr. Bartenstein: That's not true!]] [[Abg. Gradwelt: Mr Federal Minister, you have the opportunity to speak!]] But do you know what I think is the most important fact? – That the order to the company FACC has gone because there are excellent employees at the factory, who cannot be overlooked due to their performance quality – whether they do such business with Eurofighter or not. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We could actually save ourselves this whole discussion today if the Federal Chancellor were there – although I am certainly not quite so anxious that he is there – and would inform us what is with this economic level, with the economists who have said or who have told him or of whom he thinks they are buying the Eurofighters. He should finally present this forum, tell us that it will be so, and we have no more reason to discuss it. Or did the Federal Chancellor not tell us the truth before the election, ladies and gentlemen, and now we have to deal with this business, with this Eurofighter acquisition? Ladies and gentlemen! One thing could not be explained in this subcommittee, because the then Minister of Defence Scheibner had been shot off and there was no statement to make: Why do you actually come up with a certain number of planes? These were 36 before, then there were 24, and already in September 2001, they said: Well, maybe it'll only be 18. And then comes... [[Abg. Auer: Are you for 36?]] Please, I'm not a military expert, but: What is the decisive reason for coming from 24 to 18 suddenly, and that in 2001? Then suddenly the flood comes, then come God be thanks the flood, and now we can say: For you poor flood victims, we sacrifice six Eurofighters. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: What are you doing? What does that mean, “thank you be to God for the flood ”?]] You know very well, ladies and gentlemen of the government fact that the first cent in this business is only running in 2007. You know very well that no euro from this Eurofighter business has benefited the flood victims. I find it disgraceful to beat political change out of the need of those concerned here, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I really don't think it's all right to do that. Do you know what happened? – The Minister of Finance has cleared up the rest of the disaster fund, and the Minister of Finance has cleared up the remaining millions from the financing of floods. And now, for example, Mr. Landesrat Anschober in Upper Austria has also come up with the fact that there is a lack of substantial resources to ensure long-term flood protection. Ladies and gentlemen! I mean, since the excuses were already being made: Mr Klubobmann Scheibner, who met these statements as Minister of Defense at the time, should apologize to the flood victims.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12895	Mr Schöls has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12914	Mr President. Mr. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! High house! Ladies and gentlemen! The last two hours of the debate on the procurement of the Eurofighters have once again clearly shown who in this Republic is concerned with the power of state and the state-political responsibility and who is concerned with making cheap polemics. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, do not benefit from it, even if your speakers make use of the direct broadcast of television, for example, that the Pilz colleague is making himself here and that the mandates who worked in the Court of Auditors Committee are ready. He expressed his greatest concern at this long session, namely the one who ate his cuts, and his main concern at the meeting was which socks the representatives of the government parties addressed. Or Mr Lap, ladies and gentlemen, who have played up pension questions against airspace surveillance here, or Mr Gaál, who has just used the last minutes of direct transmission and has given people much confidence when he said: If the SPÖ 2006 represents the government and the Federal Chancellor, then there is no such acquisition. That's actually an acknowledgment. Because if you compare the values of Mr. Gusenbauer with those of Federal Chancellor Schüssel, you will see that there is no danger that in 2006 Gusenbauer will become Chancellor. Therefore, the Austrians can rely calmly on the fact that airspace defence is in good hands with this government party. [[Acceptance with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé.]] My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! On the matter itself: If you're on the 19th. Years of the year 2004 could have flown along, then you could have noticed that the Austrian Major, who was flying the Eurofighter as a pilot, was enthusiastic about this plane. Dear Toni Gaál, you're quoting newspapers so often, but only when it fits you into the stuff. ==References== October 2004, the “Standard” writes that the pilots – and these are those who have to deal with this device – are flying on the Eurofighter, pilots of all armies who are testing the Eurofighter internationally. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Gaál.]] If you'd been driving, you'd have seen it, but you shouldn't have. On the issue itself: The opposition wanted Mr Wagner in the Court of Auditors Committee. ==References====External links== October last year, an interview in the “Kurier” in which Mr. Wagner told us: ‘Laut Wagner would have been the flu and the Eurofighter ‘two equivalent offers’. ‘Wagner would in no way claim before the Committee that ‘what did not happen to right things’. “But it must be said that the decision was politically justified. If politicians decide to take the more expensive plane, he will accept it. “The ‘children’s diseases’ of the Eurofighter have been as expected as those at the time when the flu was introduced.” He is convinced, however, that these errors are “mixed” until the introduction. And Wagner also says: "It is clear that the Eurofighter is not only the more expensive but also the better pilot, since behind the grips only the Sweden, but behind the Eurofighter, there are four powerful nations. “If you want to be in international operations, the Eurofighter is better.”” Internationality is not just about that. ==References====External links== [[Abg. May. Worm: It’s about neutrality!]] And it also begins with the text “Brothers, hear the signals!”
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12976	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Mulder. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e12994	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to devote the short time to counter-businesses, and nothing describes the operations of compensation transactions better than the statement of Eurofighter chief Rauen, who meant that nowhere is there any lie as much as in graves and counter-businesses. Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, transparency, just as you always say, cannot really be a talk, and the Court of Auditors also considers this in its report, because the lack of project management of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which impossibility of comprehensible and coherent overall appreciation, is strongly criticised. This is to be read in the Court's report on page 33. There is no trace of transparency, of an understandable procedure. For this, the example of TU Graz, I think, is a very good one. Because they didn't know anything about their luck at first, to be taken on the list of counter-businesses. Then you will be in the committee on 6 June. October said that the counter-businesses with TU Graz were not approved by your ministry and that EADS had objected. There is also a press release. Now it is to be read again on your ministry's homepage. However, they do not even take seriously the criteria that have been set up for counter-businesses, because, as usual, it is clear that the Sorella Ramonda department store – my colleague Herbs has already mentioned it today – will be accepted as a counter-store with € 18.1 million. I would now be very interested in meeting the six criteria, i.e. the technology criteria set out in the Treaty. Is it information and communication technology, micro-nano technology, life sciences, mobility and transport, new materials, environment and energy? I can hardly imagine that a fashion house is part of those counter-businesses that Austria is supposed to secure the entry ticket into the European high-technology club. For this reason, in order to bring light into the darkness of the counter-businesses, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] If you have nothing to hide, please accept this motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13054	The motion for a resolution just read by Dr. Cap, Dr. Kräuben and colleagues is sufficiently supported and is under negotiation. The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13076	Mr President. Federal Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Now Mr Gaßner is not in the hall, but I would like to say to him: Even if he cynically meant the expression “Thank God then came the flood, ” that was a real expression for the people in his community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! I am not a military expert, nor a technician, nor do I see it as my task to discuss technical details in Parliament. What we should discuss here in Parliament is rather the question: If we want to defend ourselves, do we want to defend our country and thus our population as well? This is a very, very simple question, which is equally easy to answer: Yes, we want to protect ourselves, we want to protect our country, and thus also our population, against all the threats that can only be foreseen in any form. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Of course, we can be lucky, and friends countries or neighbouring countries could jump into permanence if we need them and so they have time, you have to say. But do we really want that? Do we really want to leave that to others? Do we really want others to determine what our air sovereignty looks like? The question was to be clarified, and after it was clear, the choice of aircraft was also correct and important, because we do not need many, but powerful aircraft. And this federal government has made a real decision. This aircraft, which has been selected, is a quantum leap in the history of aviation and lasts up to 40 years. [[Abg. Oils: Do you know what a quantum leap is?]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: This is a very small thing!]] [[Abg. Oillinger: It's a quantum leap!]] The fact that counter-businesses are existing – I do not understand you and do not have so much time to speak – is a fact that you, too, cannot dispute away, my dear colleague. [[continuing calls to the SPÖ and the Greens]] And counter-businesses bring jobs. The Court of Auditors gives this Federal Government a right. This is, of course, extremely difficult for you to bear, but I am sure that your public statements in terms of counter-businesses are damaging to the economy. That's a fact you should be aware of. Finally, I would like to thank the President of the Court of Auditors and, of course, all officials for this detailed report.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13170	As the next speaker, Mr Ing. Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13188	Mr President! Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Of course, we all want to protect our country and our citizens, but the question is whether we have to shoot so far above the target. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In the invitation to tender for the airspace surveillance aircraft, the practical testing was mandatory for all providers, and it is already strange that Eurofighters in particular were not allowed to do so, although these aircraft are by far the most expensive aircraft in the acquisition and operation, and although there has been no testing of the Austrian tranche to date. There are only two possible reasons for this: Either there are unfair motives behind it, or it is simply a shield-citizen's stroke. [[Abg. Schools: Hey!]] [[Abg. Großruck: Or the slug is the way he thinks!]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Or it's a real decision! This too is possible!]] The Court of Auditors did not have a clear answer to this question. If Minister Platter believes that this was not necessary because the Eurofighters were sufficiently tested by the producer countries, then this argument is not correct, since, as already mentioned, the testing of our tranches has not been completed and neither the Court of Auditors nor the Court of Auditors have any documents supporting this claim. [[Abg. Oberhaidinger: Clairvoyant!]] There was an experiment by Austrian pilots only for Mirage and flu. The Eurofighter has only been purchased on the basis of company information and brochures. I think that this process of a responsible government is probably not worthy, and it also takes us every opportunity to respond. Let's not think about it. All here in the room know that the range of performance of these Eurofighters far exceeds our requirements for airspace surveillance, in particular the ability to use ground targets with intelligent air-ground weapons, especially since the army lacks the conditions for this – once again a proof that the type decision has not been made after military-related considerations. The fact that all relevant information in the committee has been prevented by the government is also likely to allow all assumptions – assumptions that only one investigation committee can clarify. If you're trying to prevent this, then this government is probably no longer portable, I think.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13274	Mr Reheis has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13292	Mr President. Expensive members of the Federal Government! [[Abg. Mandak: That's a lousy thing!]] [[Abg. Eder: Cheap friends!]] Mr President of the Court of Auditors. It has already been mentioned several times today the willingness of this Federal Government to open, objective discussions and to charge information, but reality looks quite different as we know opposition parties. I would like to say the following: Situation report from the Court of Auditors, 1 p.m. . It was a very long session, and the representatives of the opposition parties – the SPÖ and the Greens – have really been very serious about this discussion, while the representatives of the government parties have made it convenient to put shoes on the ground and uplift the feet. [[Abg. Hornek: You don't believe that yourself! You've slept!]] They slept, and they moved away from the table. – That for your perception of state-political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen! It's a scandal. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Indeed, they are those who document, cover, prevent, and drive over quite openly! [[Abg. Hornek: Read the homepage of the fungus!]] You do not want transparency, ladies and gentlemen. You do not want any information, yes you leave the negotiating table to make it comfortable on the sofas of the meeting room. – This is your policy, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Controller: We have discussed all the time!]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] For the "best" device, on the Euro "Teuro" fighters: It's right, there's no alternative to airspace surveillance. But does it have to be this device? [[The speaker holds up a stack of paper.]] – These are all the shortcomings that not only the Austrian Court of Auditors, but also the German and British Court of Auditors, ladies and gentlemen, have highlighted. Especially today, in this beautiful weather, I would like to point out that the German Court of Auditors report lists, among other things, as the technical shortcomings of the Eurofighter: The combat machines must not be removed from the ground near Dunst and temperatures below 5 degrees. [[Abg. Mandak: Do the enemies know that?]] [[Federal Minister Platter: But please, this is snow from yesterday!]] Or: Currently, the operation may only be carried out if an airfield can be reached within 20 minutes. Or to the safety of pilots, ladies and gentlemen: Finally, the flight control system tends to switch to ground status in the middle of the flight with immediate catastrophic consequences. Ladies and gentlemen! It is a scandal as what this so-called most expensive, best device for Austria actually turns out to be. The German Court of Auditors report not only raises some doubts, but also says that this Eurofighter is worrying. The British criticism is: Eurofighters are only allowed to fly with two pilots because of the many problems of the on-board systems. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That even rubs!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If you step back from this purchase contract, otherwise we will get out of this contract as the responsible federal government in the next legislative period, even though this career has already been very strongly driven by you! The forthcoming Social Democratic Government will probably have to run out of this soup you have incubated, but we are ready to do so, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13455	The next speaker was Mrs Schönpass. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13473	Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Minister! High house! In fact, a lot has already been said, but I would like to remind you of two quotations from the Court of Auditors: [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Enough!]] First: The Court of Auditors announced that it could not find any evidence of manipulation of the evaluation results and of a related gift acceptance. He also noted that the so-called life cycle costs presented by the Ministry of Defence were not the operating costs for the new interception hunters, but included only individual cost elements. Therefore, they did not allow any conclusion to the actual operating costs. Why these quotations? – Because the suspicion of corruption – the “friendly economy” – will stand in the room until the public learns from the government what the outcome of the decision has given to the expensive Eurofighter. [[Conjugation with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Kogler.]] Many commentators and policy viewers think they know the answer: The Eurofighter is a step towards a common European defence and security policy. This makes the Austrian federal army seamlessly fit into future EU military operations. What else would we need a machine with the following characteristics? – And here the FPÖ members are called upon to watch out, it is a quote from a FPÖ internal strategy paper reported in the FORMAT: “a heavy multi-airplane with the ability to transport large bomb loads for air-ground missions over long distances”. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: You need to read it properly!]] [[Abg. Großruck:... that it can fly!]] – That doesn’t sound very much like airspace surveillance! Therefore, as long as the decision for the Eurofighter is not put on the table, the first quote on the undetectable gift acceptance will remain without restraint. This disbelief in the purchase decision is reinforced by unnumbered operating costs: As far as operating costs are concerned, the Minister of Finance must be accused that he suddenly made a slant and within a week declared that these costs would be additional from the general budget or €50 million. – We have not received an answer until today. The Eurofighter will be a barrel without soil or – as Klubobmann Cap calls it – a blind flight at the expense of Austrian taxpayers, and you bear the responsibility for it!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13542	The next speaker was Mr Christ. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13560	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Mr. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! High house! Ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government! They buy a Formula 1 boled, although we can only afford a moped. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: 2 000 billion schilling debts have you accumulated!]] Since you also know that we cannot afford the Formula 1 boilders, of course he gets a very modest equipment, according to the motto “outer house, inside peacock”. However, this equipment is essential for the purchase. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: 2,000 billion!]] - Calm down, Mr Scheuch! [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame: Is it true!]] Take better care, maybe learn You're gonna have something to do with it. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: That's great, this crowd!]] Since, of course, you do not even know what life cycle, follow-up and operating costs actually mean – the Federal Chancellor once speaks of 12 million, the Minister of Defense of 50 million, in “News” are 78 million, today we have already heard 500 million, so a sign that no one knows in this area – tell the people fairy tales and, above all, the untruth. – We firmly reject this responsibility! Ladies and gentlemen! Not only that 18 pilots are military, strategic and security-politically totally dispassionate, you, ladies and gentlemen of the Federal Government, also show a very negligent handling of the cost-truth! Mr Minister of Defence, when do you finally tell us how high the costs of adapting the technical equipment and the entire equipment are? They know that everything – from the tank truck to the Rangierwagerl, the entire tool, the measuring instruments and all possible technical snipers – has to be re-purchased in order to be able to wait the aircraft at all. As we already know, what will be the cost of the complex training and further training of the entire technical staff? What's going on? Your demand for a reasonable armament for this plane will cost you? – You know that the on-board cannon is inapplicable and the IRIS-T rocket is a very expensive issue. You can't tell anyone that terrorists are intimidated by the use of sharp digital cameras on board. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Among the events that you constantly stressed, such as the EU Presidency or the European Football Championship: With flight-inadequate cameras you will not be able to protect anyone! Minister! When are you finally telling taxpayers the whole truth? [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to ask the Minister for Finance, who has also abstained from the discussion, when he makes the money that we are talking about here. – These are hundreds of millions of euros that are needed. Minister! They will need to “upgrade” the army budget. – You have already made acquaintances with the term. I ask you to be honest at last! Ladies and gentlemen! The greatest and most expensive alibi action in the history of the army, the dubious dishonest handling of the true backgrounds of this deal and the uncaught signposts towards Nato, in my opinion, must be blamed in particular for the Chancellor of the Federal Republic. Finally, you can be honest, Mr. Federal Chancellor, and go into yourself! – You should know the meaning of the words insight, conversion and new beginnings. Cancel this pointless purchase! Our federal government needs more important purchases.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13655	Mr Puswald has been mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13697	Mr President. Mr. Minister! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen! I was really happy to see how Minister Grasser, who was still among us at this time, and the Minister for Defence, who is still present, followed this discussion with a good smile. This sweet smile in connection with the persistent refusal of any form of investigation makes it suspicious. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Typical lawyer!]] This suspect will be – and I am looking forward to it! – if we are going to rule in 2006 we will be in a ministerial position. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] I can quote the law to you. § 80 of the Constitutional Court Act says: “The charge must be filed at the Constitutional Court within one year of the date on which the accused person is separated from his office (...).” Minister Grasser and Minister Platter! I am so grateful that you have not yet resigned, because this is how we have the opportunity to take action against you within this term of year. § 79 also says: ‘If the defendant is sentenced, the Constitutional Court shall, as a rule, also have to recognise claims for replacement.’ I tell you what that means, because then you will finally be laughing: Whoever deals with popular property as you do, may then have to face up to it – and that will be the case for the Constitutional Court and, at least, a criminal court – with his private property. – Then I would like to see if you are still enjoying yourself like today! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Of course, you still have the opportunity today to demonstrate, in spite of all your previous intentions, that these suspicions, which push us forward, are wrong by taking courage and today agreeing to our motion for a resolution on setting up an investigation committee. If you do not, and we still consider this in connection with the fact that it is such a defective product, which is completely inappropriate against your claims for defence, because it cannot be equipped with weapons, because it cannot rise in bad weather, because the pilots who are supposed to fly it are highly at risk, then you make it all the more suspicious, and we will continue to pursue the matter persistently. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Happy District Court!]] One last thing: They have taken the flood disaster in Upper Austria as an occasion to, as we claim, make a clear saving in the acquisition in the form of a reduction in the number of aircraft. If you were to save only one interception hunter, you could provide ten times as much for the tsunami victims as the Federal Government actually made available, Dr. Fassleven. If you save five interception hunters, you could finance the entire university and school reform. If you save only three interception hunters, you could finance the entire health reform. And if you do all this now, you have once again proved that you are unable to manage public funds carefully and responsibly.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13768	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We therefore come to the vote on the request from the Committee on Auditors to take note of this report III-72 of the supplements. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of taking note of it to give a sign of approval. – This is the majority, and so it is accepted. [[Abg. You will regret it!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Dr. Pilz, ladies and gentlemen, on the Eurofighter counter-business agreement. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this motion for a resolution to be approved. – This is the minority and thus rejected. We shall also vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Cap, colleagues, on the creation of an independent Commission for the assessment and documentation of counter-acts relating to the purchase of interception hunters. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this request to have a sign of approval. – This is the minority and thus rejected. 2. Point report of the Court of Auditors on the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Committee of the Regions pursuant to section 32e of the Rules of Procedure. 4 GOG on the implementation of the request made by Members Dr Herbe, ladies and gentlemen for examination of the grant of support in the agricultural sector as regards its social, economic and environmental impact since 01.01.2000, in particular taking into account the non-use of the possibility of the introduction of modulation by the Austrian Minister for Agriculture and the decision on the distribution of milk quotas in 2003 (783 of the supplements)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13827	We're now on the 2nd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13852	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are now again dealing with a Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, more precisely with a result of this subcommittee, where everything is essentially the same as it was in the previous round of Eurofighter procurement. The most important and essential objective of the government parties was to prevent the authorisation of information persons. In fact, one should not say ‘subcommittee of the Court of Auditors’, but ‘the Information People’s Prevention Committee’. This is a very important matter for our rural area! If I imagine that the government fractions were not willing to allow the Federal Minister for Finance as an information person for funding questions – I could still think: Well, maybe you're afraid he's messing up. However, if I imagine that you do not allow the now out-of-service Commissioner Dr. Franz Fischler as a person of information, I wonder if it is really a serious concern for you from the government groups to improve the situation of farmers, the rural population and the rural area. Ladies and gentlemen! I doubt it very strongly! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] We have found in our minority report that despite 17 years of ÖVP agriculture ministers have failed to achieve a fair distribution of agricultural subsidies, a distribution that also benefits family farms, small farms. The distribution is due to these small enterprises, the funds go only into farms that produce much that have many properties. [[Abg. Hellererer: That's not true!]] Federal Minister! I do not know how to maintain the rural area, this cultural area, this cultural landscape in the future when thousands of small farms are locked each year. If I hear that in Austria 17 acres of forest grow in addition per year, I wonder who is to receive a cultural landscape in the future. It is also interesting that agricultural incomes are 80 percent, according to the Green Report, public incomes, subsidies incomes. I claim, Mr Federal Minister, that this share is more than 80 percent, because I know that there are x subsidies, for example, through the respective communities that appear nowhere. For example, if I want no maize to be grown in the slopes of my community, the Farmer's Office tells me: It's okay, we don't build corn there, we're doing Greenland there, but you pay for it, square meters for square meters! [[Abg. Hornek: Where is there such a thing...?]] - That's so clear, isn't it? [[Abg. Hornek: Are you wondering?]] Well, there's none of the 'polluter pays' principle. It would be the whole slope down, but I have to pay for that not happening. There is the same problem with the measures to protect water contracts, for example in the cleaning of our drinking water: Promotions to be paid by citizens but never appear. So I claim that 80 percent is a lower limit; I think there is more funding. In view of this – and I conclude with that – that this Federal Government is sinking into the rural area, that it is no longer going to be a terrible one, I wonder if the people who live in rural areas are so no matter what you do, not just the farmers, but all those who live there. For example, there is a second wave of closure at the post offices, which was challenged in an answer by Minister Gorbach with the formulation, there are no lists, one day later this list is then available. Go ahead, now the courts are talking again: There is also a second wave of closure in the district courts. Final sentence: If I look at the financial development of our communities, I see that from a financial point of view, it will not be long.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13930	The next speaker was Mr Hornek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e13948	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! In the Standing Court Subcommittee, the SPÖ Group has had a request for an examination of agricultural support for its social, economic and environmental impact since 1. It was introduced in January 2000. The decision on the distribution of milk quotas in 2003 was of particular interest. This desire was justified, among other things, by the government's alleged representation of the interests of large farmers, with its policy. Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Josef Pröll was then asked for written statement in report form. Ladies and gentlemen! The priority agricultural policy objective is to safeguard agricultural income and thus to ensure the sustainable protection of rural areas, Mr Pirklhuber. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] The rural structures in Austria are very small, strongly ecologically stressed, in some difficult topographical situations and almost exclusively family-owned. In order to secure these small structures in a sustainable manner, a combination of incomes from market returns and compensation payments is required. A further agricultural policy objective is to ensure the sustainable supply of high-quality food to consumers. With regard to the economic sustainability of rural areas, Austria has a pioneering role at European level with its rural development solutions. [[Congratulation with the ÖVP and the Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Shame.]] The ÖPUL environmental programme has been particularly successful because it offers correct solutions to sensitive issues such as erosion and groundwater protection. A strong internationally recognised environmental policy accent has been set with ÖPUL. In Austria, the AMA Act established the agricultural market Austria as a legal entity in 1992 and entrusted it with the implementation of the market rules and with the implementation of the funding measures. The Austrian agricultural market sets out comprehensive and well-known control activities. In 2003 there were well over 100 000 such controls, during which up to 30 000 on-site establishments are controlled annually, the AMA itself being subject to comprehensive controls as a paying agency. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Unfortunately!]] The agricultural market Austria is considered to be the most audited institution in Austria. Since EU accession in 1995, there have been 76 external controls, with the AMA being examined 25 times by the European Commission, 17 times by the European Court of Auditors, 21 times by the Austrian Court of Auditors, 10 times by EU financial control and by the Ministry of Agriculture. In an international comparison, the European Commission has assessed the agricultural market Austria as the best-functioning paying agency. The real assessment of controls, ladies and gentlemen, but the farmers do. And these feel the controls are very penetrating. Even members of the opposition sometimes feel that these tests are too strict. But as one of the most debilitated phraseists driven by this House, the permanent SPÖ representation of the alleged large farmers and industrial agriculture in Austria is to be seen. [[Abg. Great!]] The opposite is the case: The average farm area is 17 hectares in Austria, 67 hectares in the UK and 45 hectares in Denmark, Mr Gradwelt. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Yes, but it is about Austrian conditions!]] This picture of the land equipment of agricultural holdings is reflected in the reference quantity equipment in the dairy sector. At the time of EU accession, Austria had the smallest reference quantity: an average of 27 000 kilograms. A survey of dairy suppliers of the Dairy Waidhofen on the Thaya revealed that 445 respondents reported only 272 farm managers that they wanted to continue milk production for more than ten years. These dramatic figures show that there is a need for increased opportunities for family farms who want to operate high-quality milk production in the future. However, these figures also show that future businesses need to be strengthened in this context. The core decision is as follows: Animal welfare and dairy production in farmed family farms in Austria or imported milk from so many non-agricultural foreign holdings. This report by the Court of Auditors shows that the agricultural policy path of our Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll is not only a good example of the management of farm incomes and the allocation of milk quotas.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14031	The next speaker was Mr Pirklhuber. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14050	Ladies and gentlemen! Federal Minister! Mr President. Mr Hornek, I should like to remind you of the speech you have just given to this report: It is just as much a farce that we can read in the Green Report. But that was not the issue of the Committee. What was it all about? – It was about granting agricultural support, export refunds, the distribution of milk quotas from the national reserve and the new measures in the context of the implementation of the agricultural reform are far from unproblematic! This has been very clear from many discussions in the Committee. That is why we will not, of course, give our approval to this report. We have also written a different personal opinion. Why? – Because you have effectively refused information. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] It is incredible that you, Commissioner Fischler, as the competent agricultural representative of Austria in Brussels, have always been responsible for the agricultural reform, but also, at least at the time of accession to the EU, for the representation of Austria, and at that time you have made a very intense effort to recognise the organically oriented Austrian agriculture – that you as a farmer's representative – because there were some representatives of the peasantry in this committee – were not willing to invite this Commissioner. That is completely incomprehensible! And you can't tell any Austrian or any Austrian how this goes on a cow's skin. [[Abg. Grillitsch: We have him eh...!]] Secondly, They have blocked information persons who could have provided adequate and clear information about the level of agricultural export subsidies. As far as the level of agricultural export subsidies is concerned, you, ladies and gentlemen, have spread the carpet of silence for years. Under the word “Data Protection” you have so far led the public behind the light. They have not explained to her how much funding and why certain companies are getting in this country. I think it would have been right and necessary to do that for a long time. We have, however, achieved a little more clarity on some points, contrary to your resistance, because in this area of agricultural exports, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with scandals, we are dealing with funding scandals. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] [[Abg. Hornek: What?]] – This is nothing new, Mr Pröll! I'll tell you. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] It is funding scandals, which are also judicial, which have taken judicial action. [[Abg. Grill: by name, Mr Pirklhuber!]] – That’s coming, Mr Grillitsch, don’t be so impatient! You know, there's a lot in the dark. I'll tell you. Wait a little! [[Abg. Hornek: Zundeln and...!]] On several occasions, the European Anti-Fraud Office OLAF is talking about exports, including carousel transport: Exports of products, re-imports, re-labelling, false labelling, false accompanying documents et cetera – have come to massive fraud cases in the European Union. I'm still talking about the Austrian situation, Mr. Federal Minister! It was interesting how the information was distributed. The head of the AMA, Mag. Schöppl, first of all refused to give any information at all. But then I have to make it clear to him that he is legally responsible for granting export refunds. He then went further and was only willing to provide the relevant data after explanations and information by Parliament staff. What companies are receiving agricultural export subsidies in this country? – This is interesting, ladies and gentlemen, because you can only let the sensuality of such promotions pass through your head if you know what they really are used for. [[Abg. Grill: Where are the scandals now? What about the announcements now?]] And I remember in this context: Large food groups, i.e. not cooperative or smaller companies, but large food groups such as, to name just a few, Nestlé Österreich, Suchard, Manner AG, Coca Cola are among the agricultural export subsidies recipients in this country. - That's fact. They are not farmers, they are large food groups or large food groups. [[Abg. Grill: This is a scandal?]] Further: In the field of meat exports, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Grasser has granted us that there was scandal. Consequences! I have read this to you in committee, because there is a reply to this question. [[Abg. Grill:... legal consequences! You'll have to answer that!]] I quote from the reply of Minister Grasser to the scandal in the field of meat exports: ‘The types of irregularities concern: missing or incomplete documents; incorrect or counterfeit customs documents, business documents; incorrect indication of origin; incorrect quantities; incorrect composition or quality of products; incorrect pricing; Unachieved of the specified destination;” – exciting! – ‘reimportation; non-compliance with time limits; Invalidity of the export licence submitted.’; And Minister Grasser then, in 2002, also said that a significant part – he also made concrete percentages – of these meat companies is involved in such cases. We could finally have brought light to this dark in this committee. It would have been appropriate if the relevant authorities of the main customs office of Salzburg, which are within the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, had given us this information. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] On the verge, ladies and gentlemen: It is also not uninteresting that companies such as Voest Intertrade will receive cereals export subsidies or that a product such as Red Bull – that is no news – which is, of course, well introduced on the market will be subsidized through sugar export refunds. In our view, this is not in the sense of an efficient agricultural policy. But unfortunately, you have prevented us from getting more information about the public being sufficiently informed. Summa summarum: This report is a farce. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government groups, have tried to prevent finally light coming into the thickness of the agricultural promotion jungle. But you won't succeed in the long run. We will continue to work to ensure that – and I can assure you – light finally falls on this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14198	As the next speaker, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Key to word reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14216	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to take advantage of the beginning of my speech to thank the staff and the invited persons of this Court of Auditors Subcommittee, who have done a great deal of good work, who have also provided good information, although I would also like to say that for me – for the first time I have participated in a Court of Auditors Subcommittee – it has been partly shocking – and I would like to express this openly – as was partly worked in this committee, specifically by the opposition. There have been debates on the Rules of Procedure over hours – without any technical content, without any material discussion! Special colleague Herbs has been awarded the opportunity to discuss for hours some details that had nothing to do with the question. But whenever these details were cleared, when it came to discussing the actual contents, he preferred to leave the committee because, so to speak, the polemics had been completed. [[Abg. Grill: press conference made...!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] The main issue in this committee was from my point of view a subject which I have also addressed and accompanied before the Court of Auditors' subcommittee, namely the distribution of the milk quota. It is here to recall that 36 000 tonnes of milk quotas have been distributed, i.e. 36 million litres of milk quota. That was, and still is, a grossly negligent act of the Minister. I still see this very critically because 500 million schilling or a milk quota has just been distributed in the value of 500 million schilling. However, the criteria of distribution – the Minister knows that, we have already discussed this often – have not been fair. There is now a consensus on this – at least this was clarified in the Court of Auditors’ subcommittee – that this was not optimal. In my opinion, it was much less than optimal, it was simply not all right, because it was distributed according to Goodwill and created the criteria catalogue in such a way that, at least so propagated in public, efficient, forward-looking farms are supported, but I do not think it is possible to see why it should be differentiated, which dairy farmers are capable of producing and which dairy farmers are future-oriented. Every farmer and farmer – so that we also have the “genuine” – is actually capable and therefore also worthy of maintenance, because in the final effect of this rural area, which my previous speakers have also spoken about, is a very important area. While it is not enough to discuss only post office closures and to say that the government is thin in rural areas, this rural area is certainly one of the most important habitats. And if you discuss these post office closures and also lead them into the calculation, I have to say quite honestly in all the criticisms of certain closures: In my own home community the post office was closed a year ago. There was a crazy discussion about it at the time, we have collected signatures, it was also the topic number 1 in the municipal election campaign. But what happened? – This post office of a small community with nearly 1 000 inhabitants has been closed, but the quality of the post has increased since the closure. You have to say that quite honestly! It is now the letter carrier who carries out this work, he brings money, he collects money, takes letters with him, does everything. This shows by means of a concrete example at home that if you think well about the alternatives, if you secure alternatives, if you can offer alternative options, it is not always the most important that the post office – a yellow building or this sign somewhere on the wall – is open in spite of the shortage, but the most important thing is that you manage it with constantly decreasing resources to maintain the infrastructure, because in the final effect we all – whether opposition or government – will no longer have money at our disposal. I heard the interception debate earlier. It will be fascinating if a red or greener comes to the government. If I understand correctly, then the first step will be to order off the interceptors, the second step will probably be to lock up all post offices, and the third step may be to change the entire agricultural support. [[Demonstrative applause at SPÖ.]] I would just like to say one thing, ladies and gentlemen: 2 000 billion schilling debt must be reduced, repayment must be paid back, interest must be paid for it. Every day, that's 290 million schilling. One must not be afraid of reality, that is not good. In the final effect, the solution-oriented operation of the Federal Government is ten times better than that of the Das-Blue-from-Him-Him-Hichten story of the opposition.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14275	Mr Herzegovina has spoken on an actual correction. Ladies and gentlemen, please start by playing the claim you want to correct.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14296	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! My predecessor, Mr Scheuch, has indeed claimed that I had left the meeting several times in advance. [[Call the ÖVP: That's right!]] – That is not true in any case! I was, of course, present at every single session from the beginning to the end. Mr Scheuch, you can read this in the appropriate minutes.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14344	Mr Dipl.-Ing. Pröll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14362	Mr President. My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen. On the subject of the report by the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors, I would just like to say two things: We dealt with this question, and I was once loaded and also introduced my positioning accordingly. On the one hand, we have dealt with the issue of milk quotas and the meaning of the division and, on the other, with the question of compensation, justice and modulation. Many of these issues have been addressed. And now that so many have expressed their opinion on this, I would like to address a few issues that seem important to me. Since joining the EU in 1995, we have had to do with a massive reduction in institutional prices and prices as a whole in Austria. I therefore do not think that it is right to keep talking about funding, subsidies or anything else in this context. No, ladies and gentlemen, it is about compensatory payments for income reductions and lower prices imposed by policy. So these are compensatory payments. We also tried to answer the question of justice at the time. It is not right to say that the system of the European Union, which would favour agricultural policy and the implementation of these in Austria, would be of great benefit and disadvantage to small ones. That's not the case at all. We have tried to find compensatory rules in terms of reducing prices for all Austrian farms, regardless of whether they are on the mountain or in the valley, whether they are being operated by a farmer of cereals, dairy farmers, pig farmers, poultry farmers or any industry. And we have even strengthened this in the field of rural development, Mr Deputies. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] As an agricultural speaker of SPÖ, you are also equipped with expertise, and you know very well that we have given answers with the compensation allowance for the miners in the mountain areas, in the mining areas and in the mining areas, and we have increased it with a base amount. [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Gradual well-being]] It is unique throughout Europe that we are putting the disadvantage right for the smallest farms. Second point: We have made an important difference with the ÖPUL environmental programme in 1995. This has proved to be excellent for more than ten years by making money available to farmers who carry out their activities, regardless of whether they are small or large. That's very important. And this is a policy that can be seen: To compensate for disadvantages and to honour environmental benefits. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] The third point I wanted to address concerns the agricultural market in Austria and the scandalisation of agricultural policy by Mr Pirklhuber and the attempt at scandalizing the Austrian agricultural policy. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Mr Pirklhuber! They have apparently not listened attentively to what the previous speakers have said, whose statements I can only underline, namely that the agricultural market Austria, with its audit instruments, with its resolution techniques, is now regarded as a model example in Europe, how it can work to implement European agricultural policy efficiently, controlled and clearly prepared. I'll tell you one thing: As soon as you see a scandal, I ask you to report it immediately. [[Abg. Oil: Coca Cola!]] Export refunds: The export refunds are not an Austrian agricultural policy policy. They are jointly managed in Europe. Each undertaking shall be entitled to these export refunds under the Directives, by regulations, regulations and laws when they are complied with, regardless of whether it is large or small, whether it is Nestlé or otherwise what it means, that refers to all. The rules apply to all. If you suspect a scandal somewhere, I ask you to bring this up so that everyone can act immediately. I assume that the authorities make a clear point of point, which is legally required. The next item, ladies and gentlemen, concerns the milk quota allocation which Mr Scheuch has referred to. We have also discussed this during my presence in committee. I believe that this is a regulation that we are in favour of. It is smart and is the right answer for farmers in Austria as a whole. We have had to seek a system for the distribution of milk premiums in order to achieve the greatest economic benefit for farmers and farmers on a monetary basis. That's why we split the milk quota for all those who bought or leased. The European Union has also made it clear to us that the objective criteria that can be put in place are fulfilled. And in this sense, I stand for it. They bring the greatest benefit and are the right answer for the industry as a whole. What would we have done if we had spread to all and had flown back many quotas and had not become awardable, ladies and gentlemen? . Then today you could have blamed me for having done a wrong distribution and for not giving up money from Brussels. For this business I was and am not to have in the future. I think we made a wise decision. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: No, that's not true!]] Ladies and gentlemen! We also discussed the subject of modulation. It is true that we have always represented this issue, but have always represented it with the background that at European level we want to have uniform rules such as: Modulation for all European farmers, the same reduction of direct payments for all and not only specifically for Austrian agriculture. This has succeeded in implementing the reform of the agricultural policy. At the final expansion stage, it is modulated 5 percent for all European farms and not only for the farmers in Austria, as some on the sides of the opposition wanted. Ladies and gentlemen! We are now also in a very crucial phase of discussion on the future of rural development. It accounts for most of the compensatory payments for Austrian farmers. We want to secure this system in the future too. I will fight for this at European level. Directives should now be re-designed and implemented in Austria as well. In the future, we will have an environmental programme and a compensation allowance for the mining industry and also an investment support that we want to strengthen. These instruments are important, are central to ensuring family, rural, sustainable agriculture. And I think it's worth having the appropriate discussions.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14445	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14464	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen. A comment to Mr Minister: I have observed you very closely now and in the Committee and I have listened very closely to you. I noticed that you know very well, Minister, that we are concerned with justice and transparency, which can be agreed upon, both in the case of subsidies and in the case of subsidies and compensation. [[Interference of Federal Minister Dipl.-Ing. Pröll.]] Minister! I would like to keep my remarks short because my speaking time is limited by two or three minutes. You already remind me of a politician – which fits so well with the cabinet bowl – with a friendly, binding smile, behind it is the Raiffeisen Group, and with an ice-cold heart to the low-income and disadvantaged farmers. Mr Minister, I am sorry to have to tell you that. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Now to Mr Scheuch: I cannot congratulate him on this self-defense speech, but I understand coalitionary constraints, but have absolutely no understanding of attitudelessness. Mr Scheuch, at the time when you installed this subcommittee, you started quite fast, loud, and at the second black gate, you have shattered and remained on the belly until today. Today, there was another rhetorical attempt to get up. They have practiced criticism on the one hand, but on the other hand they have been inconsistency, and for me this is a policy of collapse. I remind you of your personal agricultural chamber election campaign. Look into the mirror, what you put there and what you're fabricating here! No one would have prohibited you not only from agreeing to the Subcommittee but also from agreeing to the concrete measures that would have been to be taken as a consequence of that committee. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Mr Minister, I would like to remind you of the coalition partners you are dealing with, as follows: Mr Scheuch and the FPÖ say that the distribution is highly unfair, divides farmers into two camps, is only a part of the public and is unbearable. She is therefore highly unfair, unbearable, splits the farmers into camps, so Scheuch speaks as a dedicated farmer speaker – and today agrees against his own knowledge and his own consciousness, for on the issue of agriculture and agricultural promotion I know – and I even acknowledge this to colleague Scheuch at all distances – that he knows himself. [[Abg. Wittauer: Do you know where he said that?]] [[Abg. Scheibner: This is a good start!]] In other words, the position of the FPÖ is one of the strong assistance efforts on the part of the coalition-regulating ÖVP, it has now been denied an opportunity. Conlusio: Take the right conclusions from scandals, from inadequacy, from injustices and injustices, from the corresponding reforms, and decide on them for the benefit of the people, farmers and farmers in Austria. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14538	Mr Grillitsch has spoken on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14572	This is difficult in the light of these statements, but this will ultimately give us the opportunity to show clearly who is really competent in the field of agriculture. [[Abg. Scheibner: Scheuch!]] This has also been confirmed in the Committee's work, because many times the supplementary education for some members of the opposition parties has been, but I am glad that we can hold this discussion here in the House today, because I think agriculture is really all going on. [[Abg. May. Worm: Don't be arrogant!]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: Also those who pay farm social security, farm health insurance!]] Everyone should have the opportunity to talk. Everyone should have the opportunity to present their agricultural policy ideas here, but I really missed them with you, Mrs Trunk. Ladies and gentlemen! The CAP reform also showed who is responsible and competent for the rural families: we only and alone, for you cried out in a loud shout at the first proposals that came from Brussels, which differed considerably from the result, because at that time the talk was still about a 20 percent reduction in modulation premiums – the result is 3 to 4 percent and 5 percent respectively. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] This proposal has not yet been discussed on safeguarding the milk quota. The milk quota is now secured on the basis of our pressure until the 2014/15 milk year. This is responsible policy especially for the rural structures in Austria, ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] I now confess to one: I have great respect for my colleague and your agricultural speaker Heinz Gradwelt. I think he really knows about matter, but I'm saying, He is the only one who knows about you. I'm sorry, but he's really the only one who knows you, because when Mr Herbs in the committee ask what 'CAP' is, that's all that says. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP]] [[Abg. May. Trunk: Because you have a bad debate!]] Ladies and gentlemen! If there is then a minority report from the SPÖ, in which it is found that there is the possibility of decoupling market order payments, then I can only say: Farm premiums, beef premiums and bull premiums are decoupled. We left the mother cow premiums together. You know that, Heinz, and you know why we did that. The heart hurts me when the SPÖ, which is supposed to be so committed to small-scale farming – and we have this small-scale agriculture in Austria – then in its report writes, in Austria there is industrial agriculture, by princes and counties. They do not know the reality, because our average farms have 16.8 hectares, 44 percent of all farmers in Austria operate less than 10 hectares, and I add that 75 percent of Austrian farms voluntarily participate in an environmental programme with 80 percent of the area. Ladies and gentlemen! We like to do many more meetings so that your knowledge becomes even greater.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14674	The next speaker to speak is Mrs Rester-Hinterseer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14692	Mr President. Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! Now let me get away from the stories and back to the facts. [[Abg. Grill: That was facts now!]] One important thing, as you know, was the milk quota reserve and the allocation of the same. We have also supported the fair allocation by means of a petition transfer in Parliament. 77 percent of active dairy farmers were excluded from quota allocation. So these 77 percent, Minister, are not sustainable – or how is this understood? They say 23 percent of milk-producing farms are worth giving them quotas, 77 percent are not. So these stop producing tomorrow or the day after tomorrow. In Salzburg, 77 000 kilograms of organic milk are delivered from small and medium-sized farms. So these are not future businesses, Mr. Minister? That's your mountain farm promotion? That's what it looks like? Do you have to understand that? [[Intrusion of the Abg. Hornek.]] – You don’t know each other, Mr Hornek, if you say so. I would like to tell you the following: There was an allocation of 31,000 kilos to a single farm, which itself already has a million allocations. This means a gift of 31,000 € for a farm! You do not mind, Mr Grillitsch, being a farmer's representative for all farmers? [[Abg. Hornek: This is an unfavorable thing you say!]] - That's bullshit? - Please, we can prove that! The fact that the allocated quotas can also be sold from 2007 onwards is an additional sugar product for the future businesses of the Minister. This is a preference to those farms which over the last three years have increased the prices for quota purchases, whereby the Chambers of Agriculture, Mr Grillitsch, have rejected: By the allocations, they have said that the price will be pushed up. Our representatives, our standing representatives advised farmers not to buy or lease quotas, from which they advised us – and then the farms were assigned the quotas. How do you understand that? – On the stock exchange this is called “insider trade”. These are blatant distortions of competition! [[Abg. Hornek: That's ridiculous!]] I will carry your amused smile outside, and I will also tell the farmers about IG milk how you have responded to this story. But I'll talk to you later. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek: This is hysteria!]] This is not a “hysteria”, but inner outrage that I feel there, and I hope that will happen! [[Abg. Hornek: Calm down again!]] I would like to tell you another story that I consider very important for rural areas, because you are always a great expert here: The new support model also does not provide for any consideration of the factor of work and employment in compensation payments. This means that payments in rural areas are not passed on to workers, but to a very large extent to investments, to machines – not to people who could be employed in rural areas and would also find work there. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] I would like to tell you now how the amounts of support, such as the compensatory payments, as the Minister has said, look in relation to the relationship and why we at all come to believe that certain farms are increasingly being taken into account with this agricultural policy, which you are doing. 420 farms receive a grant of more than €163 239, up to at least €36 336 – with these large sums only 420 farms are supported – while 57 000 farms, 67 percent, only between € 0 and €3 634. That's not fair, you can't make me know! [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[Call to the ÖVP: This is an unfavorable one!]] That's not a displeasure! This can be demonstrated in the Green Report. Read the Green Report! You can really recommend this as a night table reading for uninformed farmers' federal representatives. [[New condolences with the greens.]] [[Abg. Hornek: Read it!]] You can say: This committee was influenced by the refusal of the government parties to allow efficient control. I just want to give you an example: Refusal of Mr Schwarzböck on the implementation of EU agricultural reform, indicating that this information can only be obtained from the Ministry. Mr Pröll, you said at the next meeting that this information could only be obtained from the Chambers of Agriculture. They're sending us in the circle. You think we have nothing else to do. Fortunately, the public not only receives information from committees but also from the independent press. I hope you have already read the ‘Salzburger Nachrichten’ today, Mr Grillitsch, where you explain how you have concluded this pact with the food trade. [[Abg. Grill: Are you against it?]] You probably met Mr. Spar Chairman Gerhard Drexel at Kirchplatzl and said to him: Go, Gerhard, now take four per cent for the farmers! [[Rejoicing with the greens.]] And he said, All right, it's you, Fritz! – That’s what we should imagine, isn’t it? In times of WTO where 20 000 pages of long contracts are written, you are likely to conclude handshake contracts with trade chains. You can tell your grandmother, or I can tell your minister, but we don't believe you! [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I have to tell you: You're so blamed! You are the drivers of farmers' initiatives because you didn't do anything else yourself!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14866	Mr Eßl spoke in favour of an actual correction. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14888	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Rest-Hintersieer has just claimed that in Salzburg 77 000 kilograms of organic milk are delivered from small and medium-sized farmers. - That's wrong! The right thing is: In Salzburg, 77 000 tonnes of organic milk are delivered from small, medium and large farms, i.e. from all farms.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14934	The next item is the speech by Mr Wittauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e14953	Mr President. Minister! High house! What was the point of this Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors? – In order to safeguard agricultural income, safeguard the quality of the product, ensure the supply of healthy food, safeguard our cultural landscape, safeguard the rural region, ensure a healthy environment and, finally, ensure jobs in agriculture. I'll tell you one thing: The Committee itself has worked well from the moment we discussed the rural problems and also the reforms. It was, like Mr Scheuch, also annoyed me that we had a principle discussion about whether this committee could work at all. We wanted to work, we worked, and the report is excellent! I must emphasize this: The report is excellent! You also have to say: The information was also excellent. [[Abg. All of them!]] Let's get on it! Commissioner Fischler has not been invited to the committee – Commissioner Fischler will not be able to say that he has to come – but he has given a detailed report from the Commission, from the relevant section. We had two people loaded from the PREKO. Director-General Astl also had to come. They didn't say: Now it is slow enough, the charge of so many employees there is not necessary! – I think we've got enough information. We were more concerned with content. What Mrs Restes-Hinterseer has offered out here was this artificial excitement, which was smafu in view of the efforts of the government and of all of us who are familiar with agriculture. Last time, Mr Herzegovina and Mr Kogler said that we should speak the language of the Court of Auditors' Subcommittee, but we are farmers and farmers who have their own language in certain areas. Most of the people inside did not understand anything, but they were excited, such as Mr Trunk, about Mrs Scheuch, who has always remained faithful in his opinion. We have criticized three points: The distribution is unfair! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Yes!]] We have always said that we are in favour of the distribution to all. We also called for more support for green land farms. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: Detto!]] In my opinion, this is also right, ecologically and economically. But in total blaming the Minister and the Government that they would not meet the points I have listed earlier, that is, I say, simply a naughtiness. I am already looking at the EIA a little envious, because the only ones who work in agriculture are representatives of the EIAs, who are very well aware, and representatives of the FPÖ, who are agriculturally oriented. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: That's not true!]] I have not yet noticed much of the Social Democrats. Since today's discussion is so polemically led by the opposition and always argued in the same direction, I say: For us – also for me as a farmer – the rural region is important. The programmes in this area are of very good quality if more than 80 percent of farmers participate in measures, including in the field of organic production. Or because you criticize the AMA: In our view, the AMA controls far too much in many areas. For example, 30 000 farms are controlled by the AMA per year. It has 109 000 control tasks to carry out. That is, if the AMA is to be said that it is not sufficiently controlled and then the export promotion is here to prove it, then this is unscrupulous, Mr Pirklhuber! [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: There's nothing insidious!]] Mr Pirklhuber! I remember your criticism of pumpkin farmers. There was an immediate reaction – but you did not find a word of thanks out here, not a single comment about your criticism and your request has been implemented. [[Abg. Dr. Pirklhuber: I'll do that later, at the next item on the agenda!]] I just wanted this to be deposited once. I would like to say quite clearly: The Court of Auditors subcommittee has been abused in many parts. But I want to say thanks to those who have come. That we have rejected the cargo of Minister Grasser – please, Minister Grasser must now hold for everything! But you can continue to do so quietly. Only then will this come back to rejection, which we will naturally justify. But I also want Mag. Schöppl and Director Gruber as well as President Schwarzböck. There were many people in the committee. South Tyrol was represented and also the Ministry of Bavaria. I can tell you one thing: The comparison makes us sure! I don't want what happens in Bavaria and South Tyrol. We still have the best system in Europe, still a system that supports the farmers, and still a system that is far more credible than the one you want from the opposition. Work with us! The promotion of the rural population is important, the promotion of family farms is important – not only for agriculture, but also for tourism, for those seeking recreation in the countryside, so for the recovery value and, and, and. But then the debate must not be held in such a way that the impression arises that we would lead agriculture to the abyss. Nothing like that happens. Also mention the 99 percent where positive is implemented! Comment on our work as it corresponds to reality. We liberals will cooperate and try to implement the proposals we have made for the future, such as our demand that the milk quota, when it comes to the national reserve, be used for hardship cases, for young entrepreneurs. This would also help a lot to improve the way for green land management in the future. All of this has to be worked out first. Finally, I would like to thank the Minister for working with us. Praise behind the scenes and in front of the criticism, I find that ridiculous. I praise you in the front and criticize you – in some things – behind the scenes. Let us try together to do what we are for, namely to make good policies for people, for our people!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15058	The next item is the report by Mr Gradwelt. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15076	Mr President. Federal Minister! High house! With praise and criticism, I think we should all deal with the way we think it is, and I do not want to say, Mr Federal Minister: The compensatory payment in Austria is quite outstanding in European comparison due to the growing structure, the promotion of mining at the time, the conversion and so on, and in fact also benefits the small farmer. But, Federal Minister, if that is the only thing, it is too little to be able to maintain the small-scale, family-run structure! If I look at the Green Report, Mr Grillitsch and my esteemed experts and colleagues from the EIA, I can read the following: 63 percent of the income in these small rural structures – which we want to maintain together – comes from the public sector. But at the counties, at the foundations and so on, 93 percent of the income comes from the public! What this discrepancy alone says is enough proof, Mr Grillitsch, that your policy is missing. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] I would like to make a second point, Mr Grillitsch: I can still remember times when peasants have been beaten everywhere. Now a new manifesto is on its way, a new manifesto due to the relations with trade and others. Now we're all going to nail each other again. What has changed in the meantime? - Nothing has changed. Small-scale structures become fewer, large farms become more and, therefore, the funding will become even more unfair in the future. Federal Minister! The purpose of this Court of Auditors sub-committee was to get on with it and to discuss in all openness and clarity how this funding will work. And if you say, Great!, then I ask myself, Minister of the State, what is excellent about us setting up a land and cow's tail premium, giving her a different name and thus supporting the big ones again and not letting the little ones get to the train. I understand the fact that Mr Eßl has made such an actual correction here, because he cannot say anything about this in the matter himself, on the basis of his mandate to represent him at home. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and representatives of the Greens, as well as cheerfulness of the Agg. Dr. Pirklhuber.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, one more comment – I would have written a lot more here, also on your comments, Mr Federal Minister – on the statement that rural development is so important: I would like to read to you what the new Commissioner for Agriculture says – Mr Commissioner, I would recommend that you let that be broken on the tongue, and then, according to Mr Walch's example and statement, to argue: read, think and speak afterwards! – and according to APA, according to number 607 of 20. January 2005 [[Interlocutory call to the ÖVP]] "Injurious to this planned rural development would be a reduction in the ceiling on agricultural expenditure in the EU. If the so-called one-percent club” – who is that? – ‘enforce, that would go at the expense of the rural area’ – citations. Federal Minister! Have you ever spoken to the representative of Wolfgang Schüssel's one-percent club? - I didn't hear about it. Mr President, I say: You have proved at all the meetings of this Subcommittee that: They don't want transparency! They invite us verbally to participate in the public. When we're ready to do this, we'll say: Facts on the table!, we talk about everything in a confidential committee!, then you are not willing to load those who could provide information and really allow this discussion. [[Abg. Grill: Go, stop!]] You have prevented the disclosure and open discussion of this subcommittee by your majority. You are therefore solely responsible for the problems, and you are also the one who is, for example, of an action IG-Milk of the gearboxes. I wish you a lot of fun in the future!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15137	The next item is the speech by Mr Keussnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15155	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of Federal Minister! High house! I am actually very grateful for the work in this subcommittee, because the Austrian taxpayer spends a lot of money on Austrian agriculture and because this control and this transparency and based on consensus are important for the Austrian agricultural policy. [[Abg. To be sure, you have agreed to the consensus!]] Mr Gradwelt, as you and other colleagues have spoken about the non-loading of multiple persons, I would like to say to you: It was very interesting: As no scandal has occurred in this committee, we have always ended up in the strategy discussion. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Have you feared that he will occur?]] What did you want to invite Commissioner Fischler? To get information about the Austrian administrative processes? – Probably to a strategy discussion! But we discussed in the Committee on Subcommittee of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection! We will, of course, continue the strategy discussion in the Committee on Agriculture. [[Intrusion of the Abg. I'm sure you're right.]] Mrs Rest-Hinterseer, you have expressed an “inner outrage”. – This is Your right! I also have an inner outrage, and I am indignant about the following: They have depreciated the talks that the Federal President of the Federal Republic of Germany had with the trade to church courts. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Rest of interest.]] Now, as far as I can remember, it has been possible for the first time for many years to stir up both public opinion and consumers as well as trade, in order to achieve something on the issue of justice, fair prices, but you say that it is nothing. I ask you: Where are the greens? Where were the Greens? I haven't heard a single green voice until now. [[Abg. Rest-Hintersieer: Where was Mr Grillitsch?]] Furthermore, you have also experienced criticism on the issue of milk quota distribution. Even there is criticism – but no answers! Never answer, always just criticism! – This is actually a shortened representation. Of course, we lose small businesses. I could call you numbers, but that hurts in the heart. But why do we lose these businesses? I'll tell you: We are not losing these businesses because they get too little funding, but because they fail to meet the too high fixed costs. We decide in Austria to impose animal welfare conditions which are difficult to fulfil by very small farms which are much more feasible for them than for large farms. In addition, there are also hygiene requirements. It is difficult for these small businesses to bring in the money for fixed costs. They do not fail because the funding is too low. That's where I ask you to: Make suggestions! The course of the Committee was really interesting: We ended up in the strategy discussion very quickly after the first round of the Rules of Procedure and after the Hickhack and after the expert rounds. To sum up, I think you can say: What the real control and review activity has done as a result is a good testimony to the Austrian agricultural administration. I can take a point that is very up-to-date: Of € 1 000 in compensation payments paid out by Austrian agriculture, only 5 cents have to be reimbursed by Austria on the basis of the European Union's controls. I emphasize: 5 cents! This is a percentage far behind the decimal place or only a third of the average of the European countries. We therefore have a thank you, also to the Austrian agricultural administration, which enables a highly complex agricultural policy – in the interests of developing efficient, competitive farms, but also in the sense of a policy for a strong, functional rural area.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15230	I am now interrupting the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda. Short debate on the response to the question 2183/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15249	We shall now proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on the reply to the question no. 2183/AB. As the above-mentioned answer has already been distributed, a reading by the writer is not necessary. We are therefore going into the debate. I would draw attention to the fact that no speaker may speak for more than 5 minutes, with the first speaker having a speaking time of 10 minutes for reasons. Statements by members of the Federal Government or by State Secretary-General shall not take more than 10 minutes. I call Mrs Heinisch-Hosek. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15280	Mr President. Mrs Frauenminister! High house! I associate this request with words and values such as appreciation, interest, recognition and respect. [[President Dr. Khol will again take over the presidency.]] This should not only be words, I think, but also values which have great significance in the interpersonal communication, but which, in particular, are given great importance by our politicians and therefore very much It should be noted – whether this is in personal discussions with citizens or whether it is questions and answers. If – you can read it yourself, ladies and gentlemen – on detailed questions about the Käthe Lightener State Prize a very short summary answer comes from which I cannot read any detail – therefore we ask the woman minister today – then allow us, Mrs. Federal Minister, to ask us interested and respectfully and above all impatiently; impatiently because this anniversary year – 60 years of the end of the Nazi terror regime – we should also remember this woman very specifically. Before I do this, however, I would like to speak about the Social Democratic Käthe Echter, who appreciates and acknowledges a few words. Käthe Leuchter would have grown 110 years old this year. She has been one of the leading Austrian Social Democrats and has studied in Vienna and Heidelberg in a very difficult time for women. In Vienna, she was not admitted to the final exams. She received her doctorate in Heidelberg and was one of the first women to complete the studies of social and state sciences. The Jewish and Socialist Käthe Lechter published many scientific studies that were groundbreaking at the time and have provided many trade union improvements in the First Republic. She was always concerned about the social and economic situation of female workers, about the need and misery and the improvement of the entire situation of female workers. Unfortunately, many of the results of the Käthe Leichters studies have regained high political up-to-date. Unfortunately, I stress, and I will come later to the Minister for Labour and Economic Affairs, who has not spoken in any way about the situation of unemployed women in recent months. That's why these issues – poverty is going to be female – unfortunately, they are very important. My colleague, Mr Binder, will address this even more closely. Käthe Lechter wanted to go to exile in 1938 – when she was threatened by Jewish and socialists – but she was betrayed by a Gestapo spitzel, arrested and sentenced to a prison sentence. That was, as I said, 1938. In 1940, however, she was not released, but dragged to Ravensbrück Women's Concentration Camp. In February 1942 she was gassed together with 1,500 Jewish women. It would be appreciated that it would be a recognition and it would be respectful if you, Mrs. Federal Minister, in this anniversary year – I have already mentioned it: 60 years after the end of the Nazi regime – the victim Käthe Leichter would remember to all female concentration camp victims and would immediately reintroduce the State Prize named after Käthe Lechter, the Austrian State Prize for the Women's History of the Workers' Movement. And that's the impatience I mentioned. [[Consistency with the SPÖ and the Abg. May. Weinzinger.]] For the price itself. – The Käthe Light State Prize was installed under Johanna Dohnal in 1991. By the year 2000, he was regularly awarded – awarded to important women as an appreciation for her work as scientists who do great things in the field of education, women's research, the workers' and women's movements. He was awarded as a state prize 20 times, to 20 women. And he was also awarded as a prize – I find this particularly worthy – of the Oesterreichische Nationalbank and the Federal Labour Chamber another 20 times. A total of 40 women in these years have received this State Prize, which is named after Käthe Lechter, for their scientific and political activity. This was over in 2000 when government reform took place. The jury consisting mainly of women, who then assessed these prizes or proposed women for them, has been waiting for news since 2000. At that time, this jury of experts was called up for the last time. This jury is ready for new orders. I'll ask you anyway, Mrs. Federal Minister, when the jury can expect her to meet again. Then there was a short-term woman minister male gender, Herbert Haupt, who suddenly proposed another prize: EVA. Luckily, nothing has become of it, because this would probably have been done at the expense of the Käthe-Leichter-Preis. In my opinion, he has not put this price in the Ministry of Economic Affairs very respectfully, and he has remained there. Mr Bartenstein has done nothing about this. I call that quite disinterested, not appreciative and not recognizing. Then the price almost returned to the current women's ministry when the woman's minister took up her office. So far, nothing has happened, even though two requests have been made on our part. Mrs Frauenminister, you have said that you will be committed to reintroducing this state price. We just want to ask – it would be a good occasion this year – when that should be. I would like to ask once again why has nothing been done since your reply to the question, Mrs Federal Minister. Will the Käthe-Leichter State Prize be awarded this year? If so, how high will these prices be? If no – what I do not hope – what are the reasons for this? Are the remaining allocations for this legislative period, which will end anyway next year, secured? Do you have funds available? Can you make funds available? If no, why not? Since no state prices were awarded in 2001, 2002 and 2003: Will they be forgiven in retrospect? Will this appreciation, this recognition of important Austrian scientists, researchers and feminist researchers perhaps be granted in retrospect? If so, how many women will be able to get this prize and how high will it be? If no, why not? These are and were our questions. Mrs Bundesminister, and you have answered very lapidar: “I have already launched a realignment of the content and organisational process according to the scientific and social changes” – I am particularly interested in –“. What social change do you mean? Do you think that the social conditions for women have generally deteriorated since 2000? I notice that, but not just me, but with me a lot of women. How will you react to these social changes? Your supplement in the answer to the question is that you plan to award this price only at several years and to arrange for an increase in the price money for it. I do not think this is very appreciative and recognizing because women expect it every year. This would simply satisfy the economist Käthe Lechter, who died in the concentration camp. Finally, I would like to quote briefly from a award-winner's speech. Gerda Lerner said: “In Käthe Leichter’s life, there was no separation between theory and practice, she associated her work as a journalist (...) with her research as a social scientist. Käthe Lechter was heroic in her performance, for she dared to further organize resistance at a time of terror and oppression and to resist the atrocities of Nazi power against the courageous words of humanism on thin leaflets. They've been thrown into prison for that, and then they've been thrown into prison. in the concentration camp – and we remember her by in her name” – and she speaks for the award-winners – “honor other women and thus continue their work, their ideals.” I ask you: When will this be, Mrs. Wives Minister?
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15383	Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat came to speak. Your word should not exceed 10 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15402	Mr President.- Oh, my God! High house! The Käthe-Leichter Prize, as has already been reported by Mrs Heinisch-Hosek in her speech, has been awarded since 1991 in cooperation with the Austrian National Bank, the Chamber of Workers and the International Conference of Historians of the Workers' Movement and other social movements. A prize – several Käthe Lights Prizes have been awarded each – was donated by the Ministry of Women and earlier by the Ministry of Social Affairs. That was the so-called State Prize. The two other prizes, called simple Käthe Lights Prizes, are donated by the National Bank and the Chamber of Labour. The ITH, the International Conference of Historians, will hold an annual Linz conference, lastly on the development and future of social security systems, which traditionally formed the framework for the award. As a result of the merger of the women's district and the Ministry of Social Affairs in 2000, the state price was also merged. The Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour has been involved because it makes sense to put together a price that is particularly related to women's employment and equality in working life. However, the Federal Ministry of Economic Affairs and Labour gave its competences to the Federal Ministry of Women after the 2003 government formation, including the entire department led by Dr. Schulmeister. So now all these departments are united in the Women's Ministry. As I said in the two parliamentary questions and also in a letter to the then President of Parliament, Dr Fischer, it is important for me to continue the Käthe-Leichter-Preis. It's my concern, as I pay attention to the work of the women's rights activist and national economist Käthe more easily for the concerns of the workers. I also remember her merits as a resistance fighter and her murder in Ravensbrück concentration camp. Women's employment and the closure of pay shears – concerns that Käthe more and more represented more and more – are still key issues of women's policy, even though there have been many improvements in this area. Unlike you, Mrs Collaborative – I suppose you will understand – I believe that the situation for women has become better and worse over the last four years. There have been a number of measures in these four years which will facilitate the situation of women both in working life and in their protection in old age. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] I have therefore also made it possible for all preliminary work to be done to award the Käthe-Leichter-Preis. It is not only about the fact that the Ministry of Women is now awarding this prize in this new full-fledged competence, but also about the co-operation with the co-procurement organisations, such as the Chamber of Labour, the National Bank and the ITH. With regard to the concerns you have raised, namely the reorientation of the price, I would like to say: Of course, the objective will remain the same as originally foreseen in the Käthe Lights Prize. The fact that we have to face a changed world of work is of course a matter of course. I therefore asked the responsible department head Dr. Agnes Schulmeister in 2003 to present the relevant guidelines – that is, she has already developed guidelines for Mr. Bartenstein – which I will also work through with the relevant organisations. In the same way, I asked the section for a nomination for the jury, as the time-limit had already passed by the previous jury's responsibility. I have the nomination of around 16 members and another five possible members for this jury, which still need to be compared with the granting organisations. As far as the schedule is concerned, the following must be said: We plan to award the award this year during the ITH meeting. That would be in September 2005. We're thinking of reducing the jury if necessary. She was previously occupied by 20 people. You know, it's not always easy to get 20 people to a table. We would also like to discuss with the organizations whether this is in their minds or whether we are doing it again with a 20-person jury. Originally, still under Federal Minister Bartenstein, it was planned to award the prize for several years and double the price money for it. The previous prize money of €1 816 – there were about 25 000 S – seems relatively small, as it is to be divided into two award winners. We will examine the extent to which the other organisations are prepared to increase this sum in budgetary terms. If, with our own budget increase and that of the cooperation partners, we are going to have an appropriate price money and today's equivalent, I would be happy to be able to award the price once again, in the sense of appreciation. Should this not be possible, I will discuss whether it is useful to award a higher price money for several years or a lower price money one year. I am very open to discussion on this point. We have set ourselves as a timetable to ensure the clarification of the procedure and the criteria and guidelines of the Käthe Lights Prize by the end of March. In April and May, the nomination or convocation of the jury and the invitation to tender will take place in September, then the award of the prize. They can therefore assume that the Käthe-Leichter-Preis will be awarded again on a regular basis from 2005. The discussions will then show whether this will be the case one year or more. I cordially invite you to enter into discussions with me in order to help this great woman of Austria also to appreciate and acknowledge the prize due to the award of this prize.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15484	I would like to thank the Federal Minister for this opinion. Mr Spindelegger came to speak. The speaking time is 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15505	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make three brief points on this point. I'm sorry. Mrs Heinisch-Hosek has already referred to the CV of Käthe Leichter. In principle, I would like to say that, as Mrs Federal Minister has said in two parliamentary questions, we must also have the right to reassess state prices once created and to question whether they are justified. I believe that this right must be granted to all of us. But if we ask this more precisely – and I would like to say this as the second – in this specific case, then not only do we encounter the interesting CV of Käthe Leuchter, which is characterized by different facets, of a strong engagement scene, also as far as the Social Democrats are concerned at the time, but I would particularly like to stress that this great woman was a champion and a pioneer, which reached the rights of women, workers, and this at a time when it was not yet very developed. I would particularly like to put this in the centre, because if we ask ourselves whether it is still justified that such a prize is awarded, then the commitment to a party should not be the focus of what this woman has done for workers in the 1930s as a women's representative of the Chamber of Workers. And we as the People's Party support the fact that, for this reason, this state price is still justified. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] But I would like to make an appeal to all, precisely because we are to reflect on this commemorative and thoughtful year of 2005: It should not only serve as an occasion for calculating debt allocations and mutual accusations, but should serve as an occasion for drawing together the right conclusions for the future. This is the important thing for me in this year of thought 2005. I think that we have to deal with this common story, especially in the context of the discussion of such a award with particular sensitivity and responsibility. We're doing that! We have also planned a number of events for 2005 in both the Hohe Haus and the whole of Austria, where we can succeed. However, it can only succeed if all are aware of the responsibility and also jointly try to work out this story with no cost-effective accusations. We insist that as a contribution to this, the award of the Käthe-Leichter-Preis should be continued, and we hope that in this respect we can expect a consensus of all parties.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15557	Mrs Binder is now speaking. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. – Mrs Colleague, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15575	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Bundesminister, we welcome your comments on this subject. I think if your answer to Mr Heinisch-Hosek's question had been a little more detailed, we would have saved ourselves a lot more or less today. Ladies and gentlemen! At the Käthe Lights Prize, it is primarily about women who are being honored for the history of women and for the history of the lives of women, of women workers and working on this story. I think this award has not deserved that it has since 2000 been “overturned” from one ministry to another. Since 2003 – as you have said, Mrs. Minister – we have been considering how to evaluate this Käthe Light Prize. A year has passed since then, and in my opinion it is actually time for this price to be reintroduced again, because it is very important for us women and for all of us. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] Käthe Leuchter, ladies and gentlemen, was indeed a very remarkable woman. She fought above all for the interests and for the rights of women, the workers, the female workers. The topics and results of their scientific work were at the time pioneering for many improvements in the working world. These improvements have in fact not yet lost anything in actuality. On the contrary: Improvements need to be made because issues such as the vocational training of girls, the burden on women in work, the compatibility of work and family, the pay gap between men and women, or the positioning of women in decision-making bodies are again of absolutely central importance for women in Austria today. Mrs Rauch-Kallat, in your responsibility, in your role as Minister of Women, I believe, it is to address these issues and to develop solutions to the real problems and above all to raise your voice for the interests of women in Austria. It's us. Their voice for the women in Austria to be silent. I think it is time for you, Mrs. Minister, to benefit from expert opinions and also scientific work in order to continue working specifically for the strengthening of women and women workers. Social commitment is needed! Emancipatory women's policy must not again take place in an obsolete women's image or be pushed away by an obsolete image of women! An interesting observation, ladies and gentlemen: One of Käthe Leichter’s many publications was entitled “How Do We Live – Does the Woman Go to the House?” Today, some 80 years later, we read in a newspaper the statement “Women belong to the kuhl”, the children are to be educated – and out. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Please go!]] – This may be the world of a Gunnar Prokop, ladies and gentlemen, but this cannot and must not be the policy and the content of a women's policy or the women's minister in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Fekter: That's right! It's not ours!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Who thinks that this is a private opinion that is wrong, because the private is above all political. Ladies and gentlemen! The women in Austria – and I am not on your side, Mrs Rauch-Kallat – are not among the winners. On the contrary, they're one of the losers. This proves the many facts and facts that lie on the table, and this proves the day-to-day single-sicks we are confronted with. The Käthe-Leichter Prize represents an appreciation for women's women's research into women's work, in which women's education – these women make excellent – but I think the Käthe-Leichter Prize also means appreciation and recognition of Mrs Käthe's lighter. In this sense, Mrs Minister, we trust your word and ask you to set up the Käthe Lights Prize. I'm sure the jury's ready to start.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15634	Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15652	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs Heinisch-Hosek, you spoke at the beginning of your remarks of respect, appreciation and recognition. How do you stand when you remember that none of the winners of the Käthe-Leichter-Preis appeared in 2001 by the then Minister of Social Affairs and Women Herbert Haupt, that this award ceremony has been boycotted almost boycotted? – Of course, I am not suggesting that this was related to the fact that you also wanted to boycott the black and blue government in all directions at the time and therefore the winners were not allowed to appear. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Again what went back with you!]] Ladies and gentlemen! Scientific research for women is a good and important basis in women's policy. It is therefore also clear to us that Käthe's work needs to be appreciated more easily – that woman who has been scientifically illuminating the situation of women in working life over 75 years ago. Unfortunately, these topics are still up-to-date today, although many things have been happening recently – and I emphasize: many things! – has improved for women. I don't get tired of constantly mentioning that women's policy is a cross-sectional matter. Especially in recent years, under the Black and Blue Government, a lot has really been done, above all, for women in real political terms, because women's real living conditions have been addressed. I would just like to mention three points: There is no longer a two-class society for women, it has been removed. All women have the opportunity to receive child benefit. The ban on work during the time when the children are being cared for at home was lifted. Thus, there is the possibility to raise children and go to work at the same time. And last year, in the framework of pension harmonisation, child rearing was first recognized as a real achievement. [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Women's research is now very well established at universities. At this point I mention only the Institute for Women's Research of Professor Hauch in Linz, which is very intensive about these issues, and there are also prizes that are awarded, in particular, for scientific achievements for gender democracy; State prices awarded for great performances, prices in the range of more than € 7,500. The Federal Ministry is currently awarding a comprehensive federal prize for women’s work, namely the “EVA Prize”, and it has not “needed to go” as you mentioned earlier. Especially in Upper Austria and in Carinthia, this award promotes women in many areas of life. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] It is about promoting women who do great things in silence in particular. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] But, of course, for us too, it is natural that scientific achievements in the field of women's research cannot be supported enough, and we therefore consider it very positive that Mrs Bundesminister Rauch-Kallat will force a realignment and an update of the Käthe-Leichter-Preis.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15718	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Weinzinger. Their speaking time is also 5 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15736	Mr President. High house! Mrs. Federal Minister! In view of your answer to this question, you really have to ask: How seriously do you take your tasks? First question: How seriously do you take a request from the House? That's not an x-any note that ends up with you, but that's a request from Members of this House, and this one you answer pretty lapidar with the words: By the way, I say to questions 1 to 9: Yeah, let's do it! – if I can interpret this so salopp now. I do not think such an answer is appropriate and would like you to answer questions from Members of this House with greater seriousness in the future. We have just experienced that this is possible, but you have been able to answer the questions. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Second question: How seriously do you take it with the recognition of women in the Federal Government? Now I see reactions that are not as serious as: If the prizewinners don't get to the award, I'll delete the prize or put it out! once generously, but what is this signal to say: There are hardly any more prizes where women are honored, there are hardly any higher-ranking prizes that women get!Unknown term type: "%s".? For example, there is the Wittgenstein Prize, a science prize in Austria, which is one of the highest prizes for excellence in science and research, but since he has been available, my knowledge has not given him a single woman. In view of this, I would think that the evaluation of state prices should not necessarily start with one of the very few women's prices, but should be – on the contrary! – consider how to better document and recognise the achievements of women in the past, and yet today, in different areas of society, the benefits of women should be honoured and recognized as those of men and, by the way, also financially appropriate. The Wittgenstein price, for example, is spent with around €1.5 million, the Käthe light price has been taught with €1 800 – the weighting clearly shows the difference. I think that you, as a woman's minister, would be required to work in such a way that there are more prices for women who are interesting, and that above all more women have the opportunity to get prizes that are well-dominated. You'll be free at any time. It is no coincidence that there are no institutions in Austria that deal with the history of women, with the achievements of women in history and present, such as in the American, English or also in Germany; the Institute for Women's History, for example, the Women's Museum and so on. So there is already a lot of work to be done in this regard. For example, do you know who Lise Meitner is? [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Of course everyone knows!]] Yeah? How many? Everyone knows that, okay? Mrs. Partik-Pablé, you can answer that for sure now. [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé is about to leave the hall.]] That's where she takes the flight out of the hall, okay! [[Abg. Dr. Partik-Pablé: Who is taking the flight!]] – One of the great Austrian scientists, who is hardly likely to be known in the normal world. The third question to be asked, given the fact that it has become better and better and better for women over the last four years, is: How seriously do you take the situation of women today at all? Look You enough to see what reality for women looks like? Do you recognize the needs that women face today? Or are you satisfied with the incense gap for government policy and say that the last four years have brought total improvement to women? A sentence by the way, which is about as true – to stay with Wittgenstein – as the sentence: “Here stands a rosarot elephant in space!” or “The earth is a disc!” De facto, we do not have such a dramatic situation for women in the labour market as we have been for years. In the meantime, you too should know that the female unemployment rate is increasing steadily, and that the increase in the employment rate is only due to the increase in employment rates in the small employment and part-time employment sectors. We are – and you should know that; I am convinced that you are doing so – the only country in Europe where the real full-time work of women becomes less and no more. We don't need to discuss the income scarcity anymore, it's now a ambiguity that she's getting more and more apart. I'm asking: Where is the commitment you put in to actually improve the situation of women? If I look at the pace at which you took place at the Käthe Lights Award to evaluate the criteria, to re-design the criteria, to compile a jury, I can only call it a “smart screw pace”. If you continue to work for women at this rate, we will need 50 years to get something going. I don't think Austria has that much time.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15798	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Short debate on the response to the question 2257/AB
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15816	We now proceed to the implementation of the brief debate on Question Time 2257/AB. Since the answer to this question has now been distributed to all the Members of this House, it is not necessary to read it by the author. We are going into the debate. No speaker speaks for more than 5 minutes, the first speaker 10 minutes. The opinion of the Federal Minister will take a maximum of 10 minutes. President. — The debate is closed. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15848	Mr President. Mr Finanzminister! Ladies and gentlemen! For weeks it has been possible to read daily in the newspapers that post offices should be closed, that municipalities need post offices, that the population considers postal services on site to be basic services. It has been read for weeks. For about a month now, there has been a written response from Mr. Grasser, Minister of Finance, who, as it were correctly, admits to a letter from ÖIAG that the post, which closes almost annually, has been paying dividends to the Republic's budget for almost years – it is correct – paying dividends to the ÖIAG and thus very likely providing the ÖIAG with corresponding budget grants to the Republic. [[Abg. Dr. stupid: That's a huge difference!]] So it is correct, Mr President, but money is going into the budget over this intermediate station. In my opinion, this is the real fundamental problem in view of the daily debate on postal closures: that the Minister of Finance is continuously receiving grants from Post AG over ÖIAG! I'd like to read the numbers to you again. In 1999 it was €29 million. In 2000 – please listen! – it was €363 million that Post AG contributed to the budget via ÖIAG. What budget did we publish in 2001 or what was large in the newspapers as a success? - Zero-deficit! You know very well now that this zero deficit is also due to the fact that Post AG made the tenfold of the other dividend payments, this zero deficit has practically also been drawn up at the expense of the post. In 2001, it was €29 million, €36 million in 2002, and €36 million in 2003. Even in the future – as Mr Finanzminister told me about a letter from ÖIAG – it will be at least €36 million a year. I emphasize: 36 million! The 367 post offices that are now closed so that the post writing black numbers so that the ÖIAG will receive dividend payments so that the budget will succeed inflows, these 36 million are exactly the double of what is needed to maintain the local postal service. It is therefore twice as much reduced every year as it actually needed to ensure infrastructure in rural areas, in the regions. That is what you are getting under the carpet again and again, but that is exactly what I believe is the basic problem in all these discussions on postal closures. Mr Finanzminister! That is why I would like to talk to you today, so to speak, and ask you to improve your parliamentary response. In Question No 3, I asked you whether there were any links between these dividend benefits, tariff increases and closures. Then you leave me through the ÖIAG – how do you say? – cryptically tell – I quote –: ‘With regard to existing free reserves, there is no direct link between dividend payments and the annual operating result of Austrian Post AG.’ Excuse me, Minister of Finance, what does the business operator say about this? – With this answer, which you give me about the ÖIAG, you create the purest confusion. No na net there is a connection, but it is so proclaimed as if the ÖIAG could not do anything about it because it can also flow into the free reserves in the post, all beyond any financial needs of the Republic. – You can tell a grandmother that, whereby I mean, rather a grandfather, but not a parliamentary body! [[Calls for Greens]] I think that is a very, very superficial answer to my question. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] Against this background, Mr. Finanzminister, together with the responsible infrastructure minister Gorbach, you are actually the main cause of the whole dilemma in the field of postal services, you and your so-called Dividendeninkasso and Minister Gorbach with his dog-wrongable – apologise for the expression, but I really have to say that – crisis management. [[Intervocations with the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] Read, in particular, the many mayors in the ranks of the ÖVP, for example today’s “standard”, that there are no replacement solutions for the 367 post offices to be concluded until today. This question is unexplained. The Commission, which is to discuss it and work out compromises, has only been able to present legally non-binding proposals. They are completely non-binding. The third thing: Who now does not take part in the fact that the Commission may still work out compromises? – Minister Gorbach. Who is not represented in the Commission? – Mr Mainoni State Secretary. These men have already taken the flagfleet. The only thing you can do, Minister Grasser, is today a clear business commitment to what is worth more to you: these dividends you are making, or a good local infrastructure supply that also needs businesses? It is not only about the population, it is also an economic factor when I have local postal services. Especially you always boast of the fact or always pretend that you are very economic-oriented and want to do something for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. There was a roadshow on your side. In this road show, you have greatly appreciated your program, but you are actually working against what you have praised. They close the infrastructure that small and medium-sized enterprises need. In the rural regions in particular, we need these jobs. However, their policies look different, and the competent ministers and state secretaries are always out of the dust or say in the committee: My goodness, you are actually right, but it is now true that Post AG is an independent institution in the structure of ÖIAG and that there is an economic activity to be done! Mr Kukacka, State Secretary, has always said: Post AG must act politically, and in so far as it is justified that it is also closed! But stay on the track, you, the mayor on site, with your concerns, with the concerns of the population. Thus, practically the identification elements of a local core, an intact supply on the land remain on the track. The biggest problem – but you, Mr Finanzminister, do not blame, Mr Gorbach is primarily responsible for it – is that of this mirror fighting of the Universal Service Regulation. The current Universal Service Regulation goes back to Minister Forstinger – also a Minister of Freedom – and in no way guarantees that people have their postal services on site, but allows the post to close because she has to operate business. [[Abg. Wittauer: Where is not comprehensive in Austria...?]] Minister Gorbach goes to Carinthia, in Carinthia he meets Mr. Landeshuptmann Haider, and at once we hear from Carinthia: A stricter Universal Service Regulation is coming! Then there is one, and interestingly it is reviewed – and then the same Minister says: This Universal Service Regulation is not because it is unconstitutional because it wants to anchor a Commission which is not possible by regulation, but only by law! Mr Gorbach keeps all lengths wide, be they in Carinthia or in Vienna, to fool! This minister has not been able to discuss this problem in the Committee so far, and he has been here in plenary very briefly today. But, as I said, my fundamental accusations are to you, Minister of Finance. Why Allow They don't have a proper financial substance to post, with which they can really bring what people want, a point of contact for their postal services. The reason is just that you're taking off on one side, but on the other side you say: We have nothing to do with locking up! I am already very excited about your answer, Minister of Finance. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15920	Mr Grasser spoke on a point of view. His speaking time is 10 minutes. - Please, Minister of State.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e15938	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. I am going to try to satisfy the curiosity of Mrs Moser, but first of all I should like to announce for the Minutes – I am going to come to the content immediately – that I am actually a little surprised that, after I have said in the reply to the question, this is not an issue of execution and that I have kindly asked the ÖIAG for an opinion and an opinion from the ÖIAG, one has a short debate on a request that is not the subject of execution. I am pleased to note this because we have discussed questions from Mrs Moser more often in brief debates. To the content. – Mrs Moser, you say you are excited about how I respond to this regarding the financial substance of the post. Madam Member, if you had considered the situation fair, you would have had to say that the PTV had to transfer a total of €4.9 billion to the federal government between 1979 and 1996. That is, what you are now trying to prove for the time since 2000, has happened exponentially in the time before. Between 1979 and 1996, one actually has the post then, the PTV back then... [[Abg. Broukal: But including Telekom! Telekom has had the surpluses, not the mail!]] [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Deputies! That's where the Telekom was, that's the whole business, I'm giving you the right thing. [[Abg. Eder: This is not comparable!]] However, if you look at the debt development of the overall company and then see what was to be done in the ÖIAG in debt, you know that the surpluses paid to the Bundesbudget were only possible because, on the other hand, the then total company had to absorb about €8 billion in foreign capital during the same period. The fact that you take out just under €5 billion, but the company has to go to the foreign capital with €8 billion, probably makes it very clear to the business community that it was not possible at the time for the company to transfer these €5 billion to the federal government. – First business analysis. Second point: Ladies and gentlemen, you said that the zero deficit in 2001 would have been possible only because of the excessive dividend. – I am making it clear that the facts remain facts as well: In 2000, we received these special dividends, which you have spoken of, namely, €363 million. Therefore, the €363 million, of course, improved the 2000 budget, but not the 2001 financial statement. We have, as you know, for the first time for more than 25 years in 2001. – Therefore, there is no link between these special dividends on the one hand and the 2001 surplus on the other. The main point, however, is: Since 1999, we have received €493 million in dividends from the current post, including in 1999. If you are looking at the business situation of the post – because you have tried to establish a link between post office closures and the business situation of the post –: From the business economy, the post office had an equity of 53 percent in 1999 and the post office had such an equity in 2003. Therefore: As far as the fact of equity ratio is concerned – you know the equity ratios in the economy, where there are those of 30 percent, which are considered to be very, very substantial equity capital – the post office has a much higher equity ratio than the average in the private sector, i.e. a 53 percent ratio in 1999 and now. I therefore believe that we have proved that we have not removed dividends from the company beyond the economic performance of the post. I am also convinced, Mrs Moser, that it is not a question of creating a link between dividends and post office closures, but rather of looking at how the operational outcome of the post looks or what kind of challenges the post has to face, and we simply have to recognise, ladies and gentlemen, that liberalisation is taking place on us. For example, there will be the next liberalisation step in 2006 and full liberalisation will be achieved in 2009. All of this, of course, leads to a print of results for the post office. As the responsible owner of the ÖIAG, I mean: If I were ÖIAG, I'd say, Dear Post Management, our interest is in securing the 25 800 employees there with their jobs; we want to be a secure employer for more than 25,000 employees! How can this happen, Mrs Deputies? – Certainly not with a loss operation, but with a secure job can only be done by a company that satisfied customers, which offers good products and a corresponding quality of service and therefore operates successfully on the market. Only such a company can offer secure jobs! That's our goal! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Riepl:...Austria Tobacco!]] With the fields of letter and parcel, the post writes black numbers. Red numbers, as we all know, represent a problem. Red numbers write the post in the branch network. Therefore, I believe that it is the responsibility of the post management to look more closely at the branch network. In total, this is currently about 1 640 branches; the closure of 357 sites is discussed. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Worm.]] It is also important to me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that, on the basis of the current legislation, a comprehensive delivery order of the post is to be guaranteed. It is therefore also perfectly clear that the post office may close a post office only if a cost-effective management of this post office is permanently excluded. [[Abg. May. Worm: What about the comprehensive supply?]] First point. – Second point: Close a post office only if there are replacement solutions. [[Abg. Riepl: What replacement solutions are available for Austrian tobacco?]] In my opinion, it stands for Members of the Government to say Dear Post, even if a post office can be permanently only managed with losses, you must continue it! [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ]] - Why does a post office have losses? – Because the clientele fails because the population does not go to these post offices. That means there is no corresponding customer frequency there. Look If you look at the individual locations in detail, then you'll see that there are post offices in which there are only three customer contacts in one day – but there's one employee in it, the whole infrastructure is there, all the costs are to be borne! That's what I'm telling you: This is not really something that makes business sense, even what the comprehensive infrastructure is going on. [[Abg. May. Worm: It’s about the comprehensive supply!]] I therefore believe that it has failed to question this infrastructure on the part of the Post company, but, of course, replacement solutions are offered at the same time. The summit yesterday, as well as the opinion of the Vice-Chancellor, I am aware that these talks are on the right track. I also accept that fixed alternatives have already been developed for 170 of these sites – that is, the respective mayor has already agreed in writing – and alternative solutions are in view. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Heinzl.]] I fully share Mr Vice-Chancellor's view when he says: Cross-border care must exist, as well as appropriate service quality for the population! There must be alternative solutions, so that there are replacement solutions in the community, so that there are local replacement solutions. In Vienna, in the ivory tower, we cannot say to the respective communities what has been done for them. When a mayor says: That is a good and adequate solution for the population!, then the mayor, I think, will probably know better than we do. If a reasonable alternative is offered there – there are a number of alternatives that propose the post, up to a mobile service, which has made good experiences in Vorarlberg – then one should, I think, have the confidence in the mayor of the respective community. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] If we still know, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a control commission to question a control commission that was set up between the municipal government, the municipal government and the infrastructure ministry, precisely with the aim of questioning whether these alternative solutions are really sufficient for the municipalities, then I think very well that an important objective could be achieved. From my point of view, I would like to maintain and stress - from the commitment too - that the post must be where it needs the clientele; no question at all. We need a comprehensive supply – completely agree! – and the post must offer products and services requested by the customer, and it must deliver the quality required by the customer. – My impression is that you are on a good path. The last point, Mrs Moser, is that you spoke about the substance. If If you look at the way of Dutch and German mail, then you will see that these are much more competitive than our Austrian company. Inquiring why this is so, one comes up with: The German Post Office, the Dutch Post Office, was distributed in 1989. They have therefore proved themselves on the market for ten years and can thus be competitive. – The Austrian Post, on the other hand, was for the first time enabled in 1999 to make a balance sheet as a stock company. If you look further – this is also part of the discussion – what is stated in the Structural Adjustment Act 1996, the Poststructural Act, which was applicable from 1996 to 1999, then you will see – I quote – the PTA, i.e. the Post and Telekom Austria Aktiengesellschaft, which then separates the company in 1999: ==References== The company has a stock exchange to be introduced in December 1999. In other words, it has already been established with the Poststructural Act that the companies still belonging to them were Post and Telekom until the 31st century. It is intended to launch a stock exchange on 1 December 1999. Therefore: We are implementing what has been recognized as correct, but where far too late has been done. Therefore, my impression is that the same people who are running against a sale today against a post-storm stock exchange have for over ten years prevented this company from developing independently. In conclusion: I am against a political intervention into a company and I believe that in a stock company one must have the right to say: We are trying to act economically – knowing that there is a commission for the comprehensive provision of services to the population with the infrastructure service post and the entire quality of service. That's why I'm saying: Let us leave the mayors, let us let the councillors have the responsibility and the independence to decide what the best solution for their community is! Again: There is no connection – really none! – between dividends on the one hand and post office closures on the other! This is simply not true because the post has a very, very good substance of 53 percent equity. It is only crucial that: Does it make profits – or does it make losses? I am in favour of having a business that makes profits – and not, as it were, on the bank of the taxpayer. We had that in Austria for too long! In so far as: Trust for the Board of Directors, trust the Vice-Chancellor, trust also of the Control Commission, trust in the municipal government, because these will find a good solution. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Riepl]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16110	Next speaker is MP Dkfm. Dr. stupid. His speaking time, like the speaking time of all other speakers, is 5 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16128	Mr President. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We are discussing here a parliamentary response to the question, which does not fall within the scope of execution, which the Minister of Finance rightly noted, but which kindly passed on the opinion of the ÖIAG, which is 100 percent owner of the post office, to the plenary. Ladies and gentlemen! The ÖIAG is, as has been said, 100 percent owner of the post, and it is ultimately responsible for this success story of privatisation in the last five years, under the owner of the Minister of Finance Karl-Heinz Grasser. [[Abg. Riepl: Austria Tobacco! Where's the success story?]] Mr President, let us stick to the facts. This success story consists in the fact that companies with tens of thousands of lost jobs have become successful, profit-oriented and listed companies! [[Abg. Riepl: Austria Tobacco!]] This is the success story of the ÖIAG – this despite your constant cash-and-run calls, Mr. Cot! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] We've always been for it. I remember an industrial survey four to five years ago in the Federal Council Hall. They were there at the time. I have pointed out that it is an international experience that companies listed on the stock exchange, but in which the State is involved, are undervalued on the stock exchange. Now we see it: The success story of Böhler-Uddeholm after the withdrawal of the state: Price increase from 50 to over 90 € per share, Mr. Cot! That was always our credo: We want profit-oriented, performance-oriented, listed companies, because they are the only guarantee for securing jobs and for Austria's workplace! – Mr Commissioner, you have to take note of this! The same applies in the case of mail. We are certainly in favour of this – I say as a regional mandatar, who knows what psychological problems we have in the regions outside – that an optimization of the post branch is of course a challenge, but I am against it just as much if you say: I am subsidizing deficient postal branches only because that corresponds to your philosophy! That's not modern politics! Retirement of politics from the economy, including withdrawal of policy from the post office means to us, it applies to the ÖIAG the ÖIAG Act, the Stock Act and the decisions of the institutions, and if the institutions of the Post decide, for example for the years 2005 and 2006, they plan a dividend payment of € 32 million, then the final decisions of the institutions of the Post. We understand by depoliticization the taking over of responsibility by the relevant post-organs and actual non-institution by politics. You know, Mr. Colleague, what is contained in the § 70 share law, namely: The Executive Board has its own responsibility to lead the company to the benefit of the company and its employees. – It is for the benefit of the company and the employees not to maintain deficient branches but to become a profit-oriented company. The commitment of the post office, which meant that no post office would be closed without the appropriate alternative provision, shall apply. [[Intrusions of the Abg. Riepl.]] Don't scare people in the regions! Tell them that no post office without alternatives will be closed! There's the alternative post-partner. There are the alternative postal service stations. There are the alternative land-by-country suppliers. These are loud alternatives, please, which will prove that your horror propaganda, that the regions are no longer supplied, is pure horror propaganda. They want to scare people. This is your policy, Mr President. Let me also say very clearly: I am quite prepared to practice criticism, including criticism of the post-post communication strategy. I also said elsewhere: It is questionable whether it was really good to go out with the message that we close hundreds of post offices, which followed the political vortex, and only then to say that we are thinking about alternative solutions. This was certainly not an optimal communication strategy. [[Abg. Oil: ÖIAG!]] But this fate of not having good communication also shares the post with a party represented here in Parliament. I've been reading that all the time in the last few weeks. The Social Democratic Party, too, obviously has a bad communication strategy. If, then a critical point was right: The communication strategy was certainly not optimal!, but the strategy that we have confidence in the post office – and I know it – is right. If the post via the stock exchange is privatized, we have the confidence that the post will also follow the example of where deficient nationalized companies then became profit-oriented, powerful, successful companies. We also have this confidence in the post office and its employees.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16218	Now, Mr Magz, I would like to say a few words about Mr Magz. Johann Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16240	High house! Mr President. Minister! A short service for you – I don't know if you had an opportunity to inform yourself in the meantime –: The trial against you in the case homepage will not be terminated! This is a Senate decision of the Vienna Oberlandesgericht. That was just an information to you. [[Abg. Wittauer: That was necessary again!]] The second point that perhaps needs an economic education is: If you tell the post-history so great that between 1979 and 1996 €4.9 billion was dropped and foreign capital was shot, then I would like to remind you that it was then a camera-listic company that was part of the federal administration, and that at the time the PSK and Telekom were part of this group and therefore these revenues were taken away naturally. I would also point out the following: There is a camera-listic course and a business course at the university, and it is clear that this is not the case. If you want to explain to us that so much equity is inside, then you have to compare similar service companies, where, of course, the share of equity is much higher than in manufacturing companies. You have also been explained in the business industry. So take it. You also know this and be honest if you already give economic wisdom of yourself. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Who has more than 53?]] – Enough services. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Examples!]] I'll give you a list after that. Third point: If Mr Stumvoll and you are talking about the great ÖIAG privatisations, I would also like to remind you that we are currently discussing a very interesting example, that is the Austrian tobacco. This Austrian tobacco should serve as a negative example of how not to do it. Because you are talking about successful privatisation policies, I would just like to remind you again of three figures, and I am not tired of mentioning these figures. The Minister is a business administrator and knows what an upset potential is. That's the money you leave behind if you sell too cheaply. In the meantime, this makes up €440 million for four investments of voestalpine, VA Tech, Böhler-Uddeholm and Telekom. This has left this Minister, who speaks of great business knowledge. There's going to be more every day! You, Mr. Prinzhorn, are laughing, of course, because you are a profiteer! I know that anyway. I'd laugh at you, too. But I don't have the driving power. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] In addition, there's something else you'd never do. Any business administrator would make a counter-account. The dividend loss in 2004 is also more than €30 million. That's another point you actually have to calculate. These are actually the key points I would like to give you for your business key experience. [[Abg. Neudeck: What have we saved interest? Can't you deduct interest?]] But what is our real contribution is this zigzag course that this government is now pursuing in the framework of the post office. This is a huge zigzag course. First it said: We are looking for a strategic partner! That's where the Deutsche Post came into the conversation. Then it was blown off. Then it was indicated that there is a stand-alone concept, so the post is viable alone, and has given it time to 2007 – and see, after a few months it's over again! The Heinzl is a little slippery, the privatisation debate has been launched over the stock exchange, then Bartenstein has come, then you have come, and you are already starting a privatisation over the stock exchange with a company that is not currently stock exchangeable from our point of view. I ask you, Mr Minister, and I also ask Mr Bartenstein and Mr Gorbach, because all three are very closely involved in this company: Have you ever brought a company to the stock exchange? Then you would find that the post is not stock exchangeable at this stage. [[Abg. Neudeck: How about the “consumer”!]] There are no strategic business areas. The Dutch, the Germans, they are on the stock exchange, but they have a forwarding service, they have a financial service, that does not have the Austrian post. In this uncertainty of postal market liberalisation, in this uncertainty as to how the postal sector in Europe is going to continue to introduce a stock market – and then someone else comes to the idea of a popular stock – it is actually proof that you do not have a business and economic policy idea in these areas at all. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ and the Greens.]] That is why this is a real scandal that is taking place here. I therefore ask you to: Leave your hands off this post! Leave the management, let the staff work so that the post can fulfill their mission so that the rural regions will not be emptied so that the people will be well and the location Austria has a future! Schüssel has spoken today about the local government workshop. That would be an example of how not to do it. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16347	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Five minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16366	Mr President. Mr Moser! They give me an opportunity – after all, we have an opportunity to discuss the merit of the Federal Government, particularly to talk about the merits of the Deputy Chancellor – to look into the past and to deal with earlier socialist, then socialist governments and finance ministers. Not only was the postal reform delayed for years, but the phone revenue, all that was there was in receipt of the postal and dividends, was abused by the Socialist Minister of Finance. When I look at the numbers, I have to say that the company has been really scrapped: 1991: 6.99 billion Schilling, 1992: 7.35, 1993: 8.16, 1994: 9.5, 1995: 10 billion, there was a real increase. This has changed since there is always a certain percentage of direct investment. It is also interesting to see what it is like – and freedom policy has essentially not changed – as far as economics is concerned: In 1980 it was 34 percent, and the dividend, that is, the total dividend, was seen as direct investment. In 1983 there was a free government participation, as it went up to 40, and we said up to 43. Then, when the free government had ended and the great coalition came back, especially under your rule, to 34 percent. [[towards SPÖ]] That's strange what this led to. If you look at that, you see: We are in Austria about this debt policy, which you have already carried out, directly with the balance sheets, and also with the post office, at Telekom, where one has put on the one hand some value that has reduced competitiveness in Austria, on the other hand, we have had the highest fees behind Portugal and Ireland. Now this federal government is going here and trying to put the post on a good footing. But the following is also peculiar: The European Party – if I look at you over there, I am annoyed again – which has driven us into the fast way towards Europe, does not take note that we have total liberalisation by 2009. [[towards SPÖ looking]] That is, by 2006 the Postkastel, which everyone knows, and that this post can exist on the liberalised market. Everyone knows this in here. At that time, it was a protected area, and you even managed to leave this Federal Government with a range of debt at the post, which is hair-removing, where we were there for the first time. But you go out here and try to criticize where there is really little to criticize. In one case, I'll give you the right to: One has to consider very carefully how much the Austrian share of the infrastructure should remain and how far the Austrian Republic should play a role. I give you the right, but not the way that you make the Federal Government responsible today for the disaster that you had to answer in the past. You have always proved whether the Bank is Austria or “consumer”: Your handwriting there was really hair-shattering! Let's be glad you're not in government anymore, otherwise we'd really have a dilemma at the post office. Today, Mr Moser, it is true that corporate strategies are in place, especially in the postal sector, and also ensuring that universal operations continue to be guaranteed. But you also have to say: The Post company, of course, has a lot to wear on the liberalised market. If one compares with the circumstances in the past, it is noted that: What is now being paid out to dividends is not paid out, is not going into the budget. The Minister or the government or the budget has taken over one: civil servant pragmatization and pensions. On the other hand, the post pays dividends to the ÖIAG. What happened there? –It went down from 8 billion to 2 billion! Is that nothing? Of course, these are extraordinary achievements, but only because we have changed the strategy and because we have a different policy. I would just like to say one thing to Mrs Moser: At the end of your speech you have forgotten one, namely, a “leigh!”.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16435	Mr Pilz is now speaking. Five minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16453	Ladies and gentlemen! If one of the most important infrastructure companies is tried to “privatize” with the post, under quotation marks, then two questions arise: first, whether this is useful, and second, whether the one who has it is the one who is capable of it. [[Abg. Oillinger: That's the right question!]] I start with the second point: The Austrian press agency recently announced – I quote –: “After the decision of the Oberlandesgericht Wien, the prosecutor’s office must take further steps in homepage affairs”. That means three independent judges...
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16480	Deputies! I'm going to give you the call to the matter, it has nothing to do with this! - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16495	Mr President. The question whether the Minister for Finance is in a position to conduct a privatisation in a serious way has something to do with it, and these questions must be discussed once in this House! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] A finance minister who would withdraw criminal proceedings throughout Europe, if courts were to lead him against tax evasions, must probably be under Wolfgang Schüssel's Finance Minister in Austria in order not to have to resign, but to be able to do the post. I really have a problem with that, so I have the problem of seriality. If such suspicions are in the room, the suspicion of tax evasion, then the one against which the courts determine for this reason is certainly not suitable in any way to bring a company like the Austrian Post with its great responsibility for the infrastructure of that country to the stock exchange. That's why I'm not. Secondly, Never – knowing the history of the privatizations of recent years – would I say that the current Minister of Finance may be entrusted with this task. Do you remember Grasser's intervention at Postbus? Postbus should go to the ÖBB. Intervention by the Minister of Finance: A third must be privatized. Question of post-bus management: One third of the shares, one third of the lines, one third of the yarns? – Answer from the Ministry of Finance: A third! That's how it's privatized! You don't know, a third of what or a third of it, but a third of it has to be. These are privatisation concepts! If it goes wrong again, the Minister of Finance will stand up and say: Bad luck, bad luck, economics, I'm going to do the next business! [[Abg. Ledolter: Now we have this with the Eurofighters!]] Mr Finanzminister! The post office is not a steel plant or a textile company, which you can simply privatize as much, be it to friends, whether it be to strangers, but the post office is a company with a key meaning for the Austrian infrastructure, with a supply order, with the order to enable even socially weak and few mobile people to communicate, access to information and contacts. It can be calculated in the country, in the small communities not so easily, which is worth the possibility of a pensioner with a minimum pension without great mobility to communicate with other people. This is also a reason why your classic standards of selling, selling, and sometimes also sluggishing are certainly not appropriate here. I would like to point out one last point, and this should make the National Council a little more precise: Recently, Mr. Finanzminister, at least in expert circles, it is known that behind the Minerva plan, namely selling the Voest to Frank Stronach's nearest company, there is a personal intervention from you, in the Ministry of Finance. [[Federal Minister Mag. Grasser: Not right!]] Now it is slow to explain what really happened at a meeting in spring, where the Voest privatisation was concerned, and how it came to Minerva's plan, because only when the House knows how lucky plans such as Minerva have been, will we know how to deal with future plans of this Ministry of Finance. - Thank you. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. May. Molterer: Nothing behind it! Something's gonna hang!]] [[16:19]] Short debate on a deadline request
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16569	We now come to the brief debate on the request by Mr Heinzl, the Transport Committee for reporting on Mr Eder, Mr Eder, Mr Eder's request, for a deadline of one month. ==References== After the end of this debate, the vote will take place on the proposed deadline. We are going into the debate. The Rules of Procedure shall be known as follows: The first speaker 10 minutes, every other speaker 5 minutes. Mr Heinzl, I give the floor to you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16600	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen of the government! Even if you are not right, I would like to say: The known new wave of closure of post offices has really triggered enormous displeasure in Austria. We have already heard that 367 locations of the currently 1 640 post offices are affected by the closure, so every fourth post office should be closed. This legitimate displeasure has also come about because the closure of 750 post offices, of which 230 is in Lower Austria alone, is only very short. At the time, ladies and gentlemen, the government has promised here that this closure of 750 post offices would be a very necessary measure, but this would certainly never lead to further closures. I can only say: promised and how often the government has not kept it, ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is a fact that Austria is already poorer supplied than other countries. An EU comparison shows that Austria is below average for both the number of inhabitants per post office and the area per post office. Further closures of the post offices – which is clearly obvious – would further massively deteriorate the situation. Many European countries have laid down criteria for the distribution of postal offices in their legal systems. Some states – that would be the ideal condition at all – require at least one post office per municipality, for example Norway, other states such as Germany or the Netherlands from a certain size of settlement, and other states give an indication of how many kilometres a post office in settlements may be away from the individual houses. [[Abg. May. Molterer: But they have a different community structure, as we know!]] [[Abg. Wittauer: How many?]] Mr Wittauer, even in the UK, a country already run by the neoliberal mixing machine, 75 percent of the population must be able to reach a post office at a distance of five kilometres. In Austria, Mr Wittauer, you probably know this, if not, then ask your vice-president – there are no criteria in this respect at all in the much quoted post-university regulation. Post AG explains the need to close each fourth branch in Austria by having to work profit-oriented as a capital company in order to meet the dividends given by the Federal Government, essentially by Mr. Grasser. However, I think that if these plans were actually implemented, i.e. the closure of additional 367 postal branches, this would mean a further weakening of rural areas and the affected population would have to take miles of journeys to reach the next post office. In addition, many post workers are affected. Austria, I've been told, it's about 500 posters. The intention of working closely with post-partners is also completely inadequate as a substitute for the previous services from my point of view. I would also like to give an example. After the first wave of closure of post offices in 2002, only 35 post partners were found in Lower Austria. So for 230 closed post offices only 35 post partners could be found, i.e. only 16 percent could be replaced. Of these 35 post-partners in Lower Austria, there are only a few today. The promised replacement in the form of postal partners is therefore a completely inadequate measure, and the speech of post partners to replace the post offices is a pure eyelashing, ladies and gentlemen. It is also a fact – even if you probably do not like to hear this, ladies and gentlemen, especially those of the ÖVP – that the representatives of the ÖVP in the countries and communities no longer feel represented by their people here in Parliament and in the government. Thus – and now I ask for attention – the Lower Austrian Land Day – it is known that there is an absolute ÖVP majority in Lower Austria in the country – with the votes of ÖVP, FPÖ, SPÖ and the Greens on 25 May. In November 2004, a resolution against the recent closure of post offices in Lower Austria – it is the speech of 99 – was adopted. If you don't mind, ladies and gentlemen of the ÖVP, then we will find a way to send this information to the Lower Austrians and the Lower Austrians and above all to the ÖVP delegates in the Lower Austrian Landtag. Ladies and gentlemen! As an example of the uncertainty which is widespread in Lower Austria on the basis of this policy of the ÖVP Group in the National Council and in the Government, I would like to quote from a letter from an ÖVP mayor, Mr Langthaler, from the market community of Frankenfel. You said, Mr Minister – if he is still present somewhere, no, he has already gone because he is not interested in the subject anyway. I would have liked to read to him the concerns of Mayor Langthaler, an ÖVP citizen from the Pielachtal community of Frankenfel. In his letter, he asks me to support him in maintaining the post office of Frankenfel. As an ÖVPler, he turns to me as a SPÖ member to support him in the fact that the post office is not closed in Frankenfels. [[Abg. Grill: He wrote that to everyone else too!]] The resolution against the post office closures was decided by the political groups of SPÖ, ÖVP and FPÖ in the Frankenfels municipal council, and their key statement is as follows – I quote – as follows: “This necessary infrastructure is intended to remain for the 2,200 inhabitants of Frankenfels” and “in addition to the catchment area of approximately 600 people.... The Upper Pielachtal with approximately 130 square kilometres would otherwise be without a post office, and the population “must arrive between 12 and 25 kilometers to the nearest post office. This will increase the problem as many of the older generation’s parish residents are not mobile. The municipal council of the market community of Frankenfels speaks with all the determination ‘for rural life’. This includes a number of important institutions, some basic services and the preservation of the few jobs in these regions. The Post Office is a very essential institution in the municipality.” – As far as the quote from the resolution of the municipality of Frankenfels is concerned. But what are you doing, ladies and gentlemen, of the government parties? They do nothing but shorten, lock, and you really don't care about the legitimate concerns of the population. It is a shame that the Minister is no longer here, because I would really have liked to ask him if he would trust himself to say the same thing he has given here from the government bank, also in the congregations. I invite him to travel with me through the communities of the district of St. Pölten and also in the ÖVP municipalities to tell the citizens what he has said here from the government bank. I cordially invite him to do so, and I will see if he has the courage to do so, ladies and gentlemen. One thing I would like to ask the Minister – sorry he's not here, but he doesn't seem to care about this topic –: He may show me a mayor who has agreed that the post office in his community will be closed. Unfortunately, Mr Kurzbauer is not here now, he is the mayor of the municipality of Neulengbach, and I ask him: As mayor, did he agree that two post offices in his community would be closed during the first wave of closure? - I don't think so. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr President. I'll be at the end of the sentence. I am once again trying to do everything I can to ensure that the next wave of closure, which is intended to affect 367 post offices, is not carried out. Our group, the SPÖ, will defend itself by all means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16673	Mr Dipl.-Ing. May. Controller 5 minutes with us. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16691	Mr President. High house! The SPÖ's request overlooks the fact that we are in the postal sector in a climate change. Liberalisation within the European Union is known to take place from 1. January 2006 that only more letters up to 50 grams are in the reserved area, and if the evaluation provided in the EU, whether this does not lead to an undue deterioration in postal services, is positive, we have from 1 January 2006 onwards. January 2009 total liberalisation. For this step, our mail needs to get fit. It is not the federal government's fault, that is simply the European situation. The post must quickly become a modern and competitive service provider. We have seen that this is not any god-seibeiun in telecommunications. I remember when I had to wait a lot of months and beg until I got a phone connection. Now you get the connection fast, the fees have fallen, so competition is good for the customers. We have regulated what is necessary at the post office: We have a postal law and we have the 2002 postal universal service regulation. Therefore, the post must ensure the comprehensive, sufficient supply of postal offices or postal agencies, and if post offices are closed, it is essential that the mayors, the municipalities, be informed of the need to negotiate and talk for at least three months, whether and how there can be a meaningful alternative solution. Mr Stumvoll said earlier that the process of the post during the now closing phase was not very professional. She was not only professional, as you said, but also incorrect, because one really had to inform the communities first, then had to look for alternative solutions for three months, and that didn't happen. But through the intervention of Deputy Chancellor Gorbach and the two State Secretarys, it has been decided that all of this will be recovered. Local authorities are informed that negotiations have begun. And the Post has also pledged that if no solution is found within three months, further negotiations will continue over the three months, so that, in particular in rural areas, provision is ensured and secured, as the citizens, in particular in rural areas, have a right to it. I am also not happy as Wiener, that eleven post offices are to be closed in Vienna, and it is easier to say that we have the opportunity to find an alternative here, but in rural areas one depends on the money, letter and parcel services. There must not be a total thinning. The SPÖ's request, however, overlooks two things. First of all, we are talking about leaning on the regulation in Germany. The ratio of the inhabitants of Germany – Austria is 10 : 1 and with regard to area 4,3 : 1. That means it's much more densely populated. In the UK this is much more the case, i.e. it is easier to define precise criteria with kilometers et cetera. Second: The application requires the post offices to be managed with their own staff. In my former role as Head of Transport Policy in the Austrian Chamber of Commerce, along with the syndicate of trade Dr. Hannes Mraz, I have developed the system of post-partnership so that, when a post office is closed, the population has sufficient service at its disposal. You may know this paper, where we request and call for farms to be found for it – and they find themselves. And there are improvements: We have longer opening hours, there are additional offers there. But one thing is true: The conditions provided by the postal service to the postal partners are worthy of improvement. That's why partners leave the business again, sometimes they won't be so easy to find, but I hope that we will come to a good solution here. Minister Gorbach plans to submit a novelle to the postal law by the middle of the year. The measures necessary but currently in the postal universal service regulation, because it is just a regulation, could not be regulated. We are therefore in the right way to ensure sufficient care for the population. That is why the deadline is not necessary, and we will therefore reject it.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16743	Mr Eder. — (DE) Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16761	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! We have been discussing a subject for quite a long time, which seems to be a subject that is very, very, very interesting to people. Let me make a personal remark on the occasion of the commemorative and commemorative celebrations! I would like to return briefly to 1955. In 1955 I was nine years old and lived in Bernhardsthal, a small municipality on the Nordbahn in Lower Austria, and at that time the population was really poor. We didn't have much. There were some farmers there, the people have worked with the farmers, and my parents have tried to get enough food. That's the truth. Only one thing we had at the time in Bernhardsthal: a post office, and that at a time when we were really poor. [[Abg. Scheibner: A bad comparison!]] Today, the Federal Chancellor has explained here what we have for savings growth, what we have for economic growth, what we are for a wonderful economic country – and now we have been discussing closing post offices for over an hour. That's what I'm asking myself: Does this actually fit in: In a country where the economy is so good according to your statements, in a country where we want industry to settle, in a country where we want to establish research, do we block infrastructure on the other side? Locking infrastructure, of course, also means locking up economic parts. [[Abg. May. Molterer: How many phones did it give back then? How many faxes? How many cars did it get then? No Internet!]] Ladies and gentlemen! The post office itself, of course, has the task of working economically and representing itself economically. This is the order of the Board of Directors of the Post in a stock company. At the same time, however, to implement a postal universal service regulation while ensuring a comprehensive offer of postal offices, which seems to be incompatible with the share law and the economic order. And now we come to solutions that are just crutches. Mr Regler referred to the postal partnership. That's quite an attempt you can make. I am not saying that one should not consider such things, only in connection with the post-partnership we must also see the Greißler die in the villages. If you have finally found a post-partner, it is probably no longer viable in a few months, because the development towards supermarkets is on the outskirts. Whether the supermarkets can take over these services again, we don't know. That is, the whole is subject to a permanent change, but it must always be clearly stated that the elderly people, who are not mobile, must also have the opportunity to use postal services, telephone services and all the things connected with them, up to money deliveries, but also money tasks, in the appropriate form. And that's a state task. As the Minister of Finance referred to this question by Mrs Moser earlier, he did this in a generous way, but in reality he did not do it anymore, because it was all divided and already parked in the ÖIAG, and he did not understand why he had to answer it at all, I must say to him: He is also responsible for the disseminating of these companies and has been responsible for this government. And one cannot take the view that things relating to the population as a whole are divided into any AGs and other companies, and then politics has nothing to do with them. That's not how it is! Of course, one has the problem if the population can no longer be supplied with these things accordingly. [[Abg. May. Molterer: When was the postal distribution?]] I believe that we have an important task to fulfil that in future, even if full liberalisation, as Mr Regler said earlier, would be possible in 2009, the post will have to be able to work with private providers. [[Abg. May. Molterer: When was the postal distribution? – Decided with the voice of the Eder!]] If I only get the DHL service provider here: But if you're not at home, you can pick up the package at the airport. This is not so easy for some people, but DHL is in the future in the parcel service competition to post. Or: Private service providers, who offer their services only in agglomerations, but not in rural areas, but where you can earn money, are easy to find. In Austria, you don't even need a license to do this, but you can do it right away by going to the ministry and logging in. But that's not the postal service we're imagining. It is also necessary to update the postal law for the Austrian Post to ensure that all those wishing to provide postal services in Austria meet the same legal requirements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16838	The next speaker is Mr Wittauer. Speaking time: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16856	Mr President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Moser – I have already said this in committee –: Vice-chanc Gorbach and the Ministry have worked so fast that this deadline request is already obsolete. The request would have to be withdrawn because it no longer has a stock. It was responded quickly and immediately: The closures did not take place. One thing's already a little thoughtful of me: Who is to blame for this missing policy? – Director-General Wais! And where does he come from, Director General Wais? – Again – I have to say it again today! – from Social Democracy. [[Abg. Gradwelt: Best of all, you clean yourself up!]] Now we are so friendly and say: The Social Democrats have good people who understand their business. What are the Social Democrats doing now? . We decide that he will be the Director-General again, and you will say nothing but that he is working badly. [[Abg. Eder: No one has said what you are telling again!]] I'll tell you: He's not working so badly. He has only done a wrong policy by giving us too little information. Deputy Chancellor Gorbach and State Secretary Mainoni immediately responded. There have been discussions immediately, and it is still in Austria – I say that so that everyone can hear it! – ensuring a comprehensive supply through the postal service. To the post offices. – It has previously been mentioned the example of Mayor Langthaler. I can tell you a few mayors, the mayor of Rinn, the mayor of Sistrans, who said the opposite: Since these land suppliers have been able to work better with them. [[Are you calling the SPÖ: “That’s right”?]] And you know why? – Because old people – and I am now talking about the rural structure – don’t even have the opportunity to drive three or four kilometers from time to time. Today, some of these older people even come to the post office by car, they can remove from the “postbook” – even they can do that – and they can also make deposits. For some rural areas, this is not the worst solution at all, but – and this is the prerequisite – it must not only be discussed with the mayors and with the municipalities, but it should be agreed on this. The Commission, which has been set up, will first review: Are these post offices still useful? – I understand that many mayors, because they may not otherwise have a subject to address, have to come up with the topic of post office in order to be able to perform great again. I see that with some mayors, but in principle it is a concern for all of us to maintain universal service, and it will simply not be possible in the liberalised market as you might imagine it. That is why it is also important for us that these negotiations with the mayors, the local authorities, are under the protection of the Vice-Cancellor and the Secretary of State. That is, as I said earlier: The replacement solutions have been developed, and we need these replacement solutions in this country too. [[Abg. Hagenhofer: What if they do not come about?]] And what will be 2009 and 2006? According to the relevant EU Directive, there will be a full liberalisation in 2006, there will be new mailboxes wherever everyone can be put in private. And the 50 grams control is still valid. This is a challenge that the post will master. The 25,000 people who work there are good people, and I trust that they continue to do this good work. There was no mention of 500 people being saved. It may be possible that there or there will be restructuring, but we trust the post and the Social Democratic Director-General that he will do his job well. We will support it from the government so that we can continue to ensure a comprehensive supply in this area. In conclusion: The post is for us home and also identity, and we will also protect this home country and identity.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16945	Last word: Mrs Dr. Moser. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e16963	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Vorsprechner! If this is your form of home protection, then, I think, the home country is better located at the SPÖ and in the Greens than at the ÖVP, than at the Freeman's, because what you understand under home protection and what you then accept on-site in terms of closure plans, I think it is totally contrary. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ]] It is precisely the Commission that you, Mr Wittauer, have referred to, the Commission, in which the Municipal Government is represented, the municipal government, where the mayors can also speak, that is, the Commission is more or less helplessly supplied with the postal closure plans, because the Universal Service Regulation is too limited in this respect. And precisely because your people have been handed over to Post AG and its rationalization plans, we need the request of our colleagues, and that is why the deadline is so important. It is about deciding, as soon as possible, to amend the postal universal service regulation in the interests of comprehensive provision. This is the subject of the request, and we want to do so, because the Commission you are proposing will not be able to do so. This Commission is currently not in a position to act in accordance with the law, nor can it act regularly as Minister Gorbach has already been consulted in the context of the Reformed Universal Service Regulation, because it is not in conformity with the Constitution: We also need a new postal law. I am also taking the time-limitation debate here today on this subject to go on to say that we must finally have a new post-law. It must be said that you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, have also pointed out liberalisation. It's clear. We have been mentioned repeatedly in an EU context – 2009 and 2006 – and there are new competitive conditions. Especially for these new competitive conditions, we also need a new legal organisation for the post so that the things that cost something – for example, the supply in the rural regions is much more expensive than the supply structure in the cities – so that this supply structure does not remain dependent on a provider, but that all providers, especially the private, who benefit from the urban agglomerations, also contribute to providing the places so that the villages are provided so that the letter can also reach the individual homes in some valleys. To do this, we need appropriate solutions. I take today's deadline debate as well as the occasion to put my finger in the wound of your missed legislative policy. We are in arrears in the development of the Poststructural Law, will also be in default with a better universal service regulation. That is why what we do not want it to be for more than half of 357 municipalities at present only the country's supplier as an age. native. That is too little, and therefore this deadline and the consent of ours to this deadline.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17014	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. We shall now vote on the request to the Transport Committee to report on the 486/A (E) request from Mr Eder, fellow Members, concerning a high-quality comprehensive provision of postal services for a period of time up to 1. ==References== I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of the request for a deadline to be approved. – The request does not find the necessary majority and is therefore rejected. The continuation of the agenda
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17051	I shall resume the negotiations on item 2 of the agenda. Before I give the floor to Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I shall give it to the honourable Member, Mr Rester-Hinterseer, who has referred to an actual correction. Mrs Colleague, you know the Rules of Procedure: the statement to be corrected and then the right one. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17075	I'm actually correcting: Mr Keussnigg, in his statement, said that the Greens had never delivered an opinion on milk. – That’s wrong! It's true that the Greens were on the 12th. November 2004 on the topic of Green Milk Policy sent out a press release. [[Abg. Grill: This is not an actual correction! This is a political statement!]] This press release can also be read under the homepage www.bauerngruene.at for Mr Keussnigg. Mr Keussnigg also claimed that the Greens had never provided positive examples of contacts with trade. – That’s wrong! [[Abg. Scheibner: Please! That's not what you're serious about that being a real correction?- Oh, my God!]] Rather, it is true that green farmers are the first to have sought contact with consumers and with trade with the initiatives BERSTA (mountain city), EVI (producer consumer initiatives) and bio-organisations such as "earth and seed". That's 20 years ago. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17126	The next speaker is Mr Principal. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17144	Mr President. High house! The work in the Court of Auditors' subcommittee has shown that on the one hand, public funds in the agricultural field are very fairly distributed in terms of social, environmental and economic impact and that on the other hand, the farmers, who have managed the conversion since 1995 very well. I would like to point out that public funds are largely compensatory payments and not subsidies or subsidies, as falsely mentioned by the opposition. In the case of compensation, farmers must provide the same services, and the loss of income due to lower producer prices will only partially compensate us for this. Test reports show that public funds in the agricultural sector are handled very correctly and well. This is particularly achieved by the good cooperation of the farmers with the local farmers, district farmers' chambers, agricultural chambers and the agricultural market Austria. Some rates for the distribution of the milk target quantity in 2004. – The 36 000 tonnes distributed actually come from quotas sold or leased from the allocation in 1999/2000. For this reason, the allocation has been made in such a way that those companies that bought quotas between 2000 and 2003 have received a corresponding share. That is purely objective and not to interpret otherwise. The Committee has shown relatively quickly that the opposition was actually about having a envy debate on the one hand, on the other hand, to try to push a rope into the peasantry, and not to deal with the system of compensatory payments and public funds in agriculture on the other. A view over the border to the red-green Germany would have sufficed: In Austria, agriculture becomes 1st. In January 2005 the introduction of the agricultural diesel relieves €50 million, while in Germany, agricultural holdings in 2005 are taxed accordingly by the increase in the mineral oil tax on diesel to 50 cents.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17186	Next word: Mr Gahr. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17205	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! High house! The subject of this subcommittee – agricultural support and compensation – does not need to be considered, not to show the opposites, but I think it is important that we have an overall view. What is the point of these promotions? – It is about putting impulses for the future, that we benefit widely, but it is also a matter of overall responsibility for this country. The society is actually behind agriculture and farming, and from this point of view these agricultural subsidies are also fair; they are compensation or compensation for the falling product prices. Austria's agriculture works. It is about that we will continue to have a comprehensive management that we have a well-kept nature and clean water in the future. It is about nature and soil protection, but it is also about cultural and resource use. From this point of view, the Austrian agricultural policy path – many countries in Europe have gone towards product promotion – is a forward-looking path because it allows all operating structures, all operating units and a wide range of production. The proof that the funding model also works in the administration is that funding is paid back in the EU per €1,000 per support €14. In Austria 1 000 € promotion only 5 cents recovered. This means that the control and management of the funding work well. In this sense, we will continue to develop the agricultural support model in such a way that as many farmers as possible benefit from it, as well as society, and that the importance of agriculture in society remains. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17247	Mr Magistrate now has his own power. Kogler. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17265	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! This subcommittee, too, was characterized by a phenomenon – and this is clearly happening recently – that certain persons should not be invited in principle, contrary to previous practice. I just want to point out this. It is worth thanking the SPÖ, if you want to do so, for the reference to this subject. This is certainly an issue that is worth studying, namely the question of expenditure in agriculture. It has actually been very much discussed – I do not dispute at all – but the essence of the subcommittee is to be able to pursue or clarify certain things. And this has again been hindered by a certain process. I only give one example – for the Protocol – so that it is also noted that it has been rejected that the central office for this whole matter, the customs office in Salzburg, the head of this body – despite serious reasons; Mr Pirklhuber has really read himself here and has been able to prove the minute, why it makes sense to hear these colleagues there at least, and nothing else is going to be heard about no condemnation, no prejudgment, nothing at all. This was rejected by a majority. This is a matter of concern to us, and this is in line with a practice which we are in principle also experiencing in the Court of Auditors. I would like to draw your attention once again to the fact that, in the past, in the case of all possible procurements in the past, not particularly control-friendly, if one wants to say so, red-black coalitions have regularly given rise to more possibilities – so it is now in the Rules of Procedure, and I am not prepared to point out – that they have been granted access by the majority, such as hearing information. If you look at today's issue – Eurofighter procurement and the purchase sum there – and other similar problems, you will notice that in the past it has been heard a cygly of witnesses. There were, for example, a number of people on the smaller sub-reports – Thompson's pick-up, some rocket procurement. This practice will now run down by a majority, and you should consider whether this can continue. It is a need for me to see that, as expected, I was attacked by you – at least in parts – as regards the Presidency. I would just like to say so much to the Rules of Procedure: We had a problem, that's right, but we also solved it. I would just like to draw your attention to the fact that all other committee presidents continue to act in the same way as you have criticized, including the committee chairman of the Subcommittee, an ÖVP member who simply allows the load applications to be discussed and not voted on at the same time. Where the border is drawn is a problem. That's why we're going to be in business. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. [[Ironic Holiness of the Abg. May. Molterer.]] But the main problem is that the central working instrument of a control committee is the hearing of information subjects. And you should not prevent this by a majority, because then the Rules of Procedure themselves depend. Hangup But you do not change the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17320	Mr Scheibner has now spoken. His legal speaking time is 20 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17338	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Kogler really challenged me now. It would have taken me to the Court of Auditors' debate first, but if he turned out here again and presented himself as the guardian of the Rules of Procedure and democratic rights, at least a few sentences would have to be said. Mr Kogler, do you know what this is? . I do not think so, because that is the Rules of Procedure of the National Council, in which the rules for this House and also for you as Committee Chairmen are enshrined. [[The speaker shall keep a copy of the Rules of Procedure of the National Council up to date.]] [[Call to the liberals and the ÖVP:No! He doesn't know!]] And we all, and you as the committee chairman in particular, have to stick to that – and only to it. Here are all the rights and obligations of the House. If that is too little or too much, you can try to change these Rules of Procedure with a request to make. But to say for yourself and to find out for yourself: This is actually not what I want and what is enough for me or what I consider adequate, and I interpret it differently!, that is not possible. I have already told you this a few times, and we have also held it in the presidency: As committee chairman, especially in a very sensitive committee such as the Court of Auditors, it is necessary to have its role as chairman – and this is an official function! – separate from his political function as a representative here in the House. That is a fundamental principle, Mr Kogler. [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] I have also been chairman for seven years, Chairman of the National Defence Committee in the opposition. I would have liked to say, Well, now we want to do something a little bit and delay it and everything possible, and perhaps not to convene meetings, not to allow agendas. - We didn't do that! You know that even if you spoke as committee chairman in committee, you have been very careful, while you have had the presidency. [[President Mag. Prammer shall take over the chairmanship.]] You may not have to explain it as extremely as you did, but as you did, you will allow a debate on the Rules of Procedure for 18 hours! There is now no interpretation of whether to vote right away or, I believe, to allow three or four words, which are very short of the Rules of Procedure: not a question. But to allow 18 hours of lectures and to declare this as a debate on the Rules of Procedure – we do not need to talk about whether there is a margin of discretion being misused, but that has been a mistake in the Rules of Procedure, Mr Kogler! [[Congratulations with the liberals and the ÖVP.]] Therefore, do not repeatedly turn out here as if you were the guardian of the democratic rights of this House! You, Mr Kogler, have, on the other hand, restricted Members' rights in this committee, because they have not been able to put any amendments to the Rules of Procedure, such as the motion for a resolution at the end of the debate, because they have been held in a general debate in the 18 hours. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That's absurd!]] These would have been the rights that have really been enshrined here, which you have cut by your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. That's the fact! That the President would then have to ask you to finally proceed from this illegitimate course of action, so that not other Court of Auditors reports do not expire, because one point could not be completed, and that would therefore have been cut down on the most real rights and powers of this House, namely to deal with reports from the Court of Auditors here, nor do you say that. That is the fact, Mr Kogler. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Kogler.]] If you do not agree that a Court of Auditors will vote on information, you will submit applications to amend the Rules of Procedure! These are the facts! But as long as you do not do so and as long as the Rules of Procedure are as they are – and the Court of Auditors is not an investigative committee, but the Court of Auditors is debating a report of the Court of Auditors, and the Court of Auditors has a view on all matters, ladies and gentlemen – for as long as you have to do so as committee chairman. And that's what you have to do. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch:... Put it down, normally!]] If you have a political assessment and criticism here at the speaker's desk, this is your case. But abuse You do not have your role as committee chairman for your political concerns!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17458	The next item is the report by Mr Oellinger. Mr deputies, 20 minutes of speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17476	It is quite legitimate, Mr Scheibner, that you now want to hold a debate on the Rules of Procedure. I do not want to go here to teach you how to interpret the Rules of Procedure. Of course, there can and must also be a discussion about this, and you can present your arguments for good or for bad reasons – it is not for me to judge that now. [[Abg. Scheibner: Thank you!]] Only: Don't make a mistake, please: What we are discussing here – under two agenda items – these are, in the opinion of the opposition, both opposition parties, disregarded Parliament's control rights. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] - That's the point! [[Abg. Scheibner:... Rules of Procedure!]] If you, Mr Scheibner, do not let me know your committee - which I do not know - and I do not think it is right for me to evaluate it here, and I can also imagine that this was done correctly, just as I believe that Mr Kogler is doing his committee properly - I will tell you the following: [[Abg. May. Molterer: The Presidents not!]] I was in a committee of inquiry during the last legislative period, and I do not want to see what I have experienced there: that the chairman of the committee of inquiry has given me a censored document, calling on control rights – a document that was made available to the committee of inquiry, because a person has said: I have documents here, and then we said: Yes, we would like them too, we need them! . And then the committee president explained that it had to consider whether it would make available fully to the Committee the documents of the person who said they had made available to the Committee. [[Abg. Silhavy: That's huge!]] And what did we get? - A censored document! I can show you: top white covered, bottom white covered. – That’s how your willingness to allow control looks in reality! That's hair-throwing! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] [[Abg. Scheibner: But this is another topic! ... the history of the Court of Auditors!]] Members in a freely elected parliament to be censored in the exercise of their control rights – do you know how to judge that? – I think it speaks for itself.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17609	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall vote on the request of the Committee of the Regions, the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e... [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: (in the direction of Abg. Dr. Khol) And that is where we talk a lot about the Convention, Mr President.]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign]] [[Abg. Dr. Jarolim: You should be ashamed!]] [[President Mag. Prammer gives the bell sign again.]] – I call for due attention to be paid to the vote, ladies and gentlemen. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is your group, Madam President.]] We shall vote on the request of the Committee of the Regions, the report of the Standing Subcommittee of the Court of Auditors in accordance with § 32e para. 4 GOG in 783 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. We shall also vote on the request of the Court of Auditors to take note of his report 783 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is accepted by a majority. 3rd. Text of resolution adopted by the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives on petitions No. 17, 19, 20, 23, 25 to 28, 30, 32, 41, 43 and 44 as well as the citizens' initiatives No. 2, 12 to 15, 19 and 21 (780 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17698	We're now on the 3rd. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. That is what we are getting to the debate. First of all, Mrs Haidlmayr is speaking. Voluntary speaking time limit: 6 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17726	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! The collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives contains ten notes and ten allocations, and I would like to point out that in 2004 we were only three – three! . Committee meetings, and I honestly find that to be a little damned. If we remember how many Committee weeks we have a year, but can only meet three times at a meeting, this is really a very bad witness. But I would also like to say that it is not up to the President of the Commission that we have not made dates, but rather that it is up to the government parties who have always and again spoken out why they do not have time to call up a committee et cetera, et cetera. This has certainly not facilitated the Committee's work, and I would say that this does not facilitate the Committee's recovery, because at three meetings in twelve months it is simply very little to do. And you don't have to believe that there can be a good discussion of content. That's easy. We also invited the Volksanwälten to the Committee on Petitions. I think that we have this opportunity and do it very well. I believe that we should involve the People's Procuratorate in the Petitions Committee and in the opinions much more often, and I believe – and we have already discussed this in the Committee on Petitions – that the possibility of the People's Procuratorate, of certain changes, or of legislative bodies that are already overdue, must be improved. - That's just for roughing. Now on the petitions and citizens' initiatives. – It is already very significant that, when it comes to the Greens’ requests, they are usually not treated in the sense of how the Greens imagine this, but there is then simply and simply a knowledge – and the case has been done. My colleague Pirklhuber will go further into this area. It is really significant that the interests of pumpkin farmers – to mention just one example – are simply erased from the table, as if there were no such problem or as if everything were in butter anyway. This is treated according to the motto: Why do they even do the work of bringing in petitions and citizens' initiatives? It's not necessary at all! We'll do everything for them anyway! They should not be upset, because even better than now, they can't do it anyway! – I don’t think that’s what citizens’ initiatives and petitions deserve. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Citizens' initiatives and petitions are in place to ensure that the problems of the population that are brought into Parliament are truly addressed and treated fairly. And under fair treatment, I certainly understand anything but the assignment to any committee where they're balling around the area for years, or that you're taking away from it yourself. On the other hand, I believe that the Committee on Petitions should not be misused for anything where you actually do not know what you want. There was a petition, the petition number 19 – I read the title to you – “to save the German mother and state language”. - Well, we had them there. We said: What are we supposed to do with this petition? – It didn't even know what he wanted to do with it. This petition was then cuddly around the committee in the area for months. Then we postponed, postponed, delayed, because the bringer didn't even know what he wanted. In the end, he said: Let's take note of it, and that's why it was gone. . So neither should the Committee on Petitions be abused, but I think that if we are to make a petition as a Member of Parliament, we should know what we are bringing in, and then we should also be behind the thing that is being brought in. It is not just a matter of quickly giving in to any emotions and performing populism and then not knowing what should happen. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the Abg. May. Worm.]] My expectations for the Committee on Petitions – I said it first – are that we often have a meeting, that we also have more opportunities and time to really discuss citizens' initiatives and petitions in terms of content, and above all that there is more opportunity to comment. In practice, it has also been shown that it is already “high” when two or three opinions are approved – and that is clearly too little, because our materials simply include wide areas. Once again, the town council would be called the People's Procuratorate, various ministries, but also organizations such as transport associations, ÖAMTC, VCÖ and so on, liaison points of the federal states and, and, and. I think there is nothing to be forgiven if you get opinions from there, because the greater the width of the opinions, the greater is the information that comes together and with which you can work. But this is always prevented by allowing it to obtain one, two opinions, and then the matter should have gone. - That's too little for me. I would ask you to take the Committee on Petitions seriously, take it seriously and never forget: These are the interests of citizens who are making the effort to collect signatures, to bring in a citizens' initiative – and with this instrument that the citizens are applying to us, we must not be so blatant about it. I'm just expecting that. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17796	The next item is the speech by Mr Deputy's friend. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17814	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives has discussed many times last year, discussed a lot and dealt with many of the concerns of the citizens. Today we have a collective report which includes 13 petitions and seven citizens' initiatives. I can report that in 2004, seven petitions and three citizens' initiatives could be completed in the Committee, while another ten were allocated to the relevant committees. There were too many concerns, such as the Ministries, the Land Governments and various other institutions. Estimated Mrs Haidlmayr, if you criticise the fact that we allow a few opinions, I would like to tell you that, I believe, we are already very generous and we are trying to get as many opinions from the various institutions as possible to hear their views. [[Congratulations on MEPs of the ÖVP.]] I am very grateful to these institutions for their excellent work. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I would also like to draw attention to the good cooperation of the political groups in the Committee before I deal with the Committee's issues. With petitions and citizens' initiatives to Parliament, each citizen has the opportunity to address the legislator directly with his/her concerns. I am pleased that there is this opportunity, which is a valuable means of direct democracy, and that it is also used. I can assure you that every concern will be taken seriously, even if the opposition makes some other claims, as it did before. We have also often had to listen that the concerns are simply ended by taking note of them. That is true, but only if a subject is already dealt with in a committee or if a solution has already been found. It is clear to me that the issues that move the population must be dealt with and forwarded accordingly. And I would also like to say that we treat every concern fairly. An achievement in terms of citizens' proximity to the Committee was an intensification of cooperation with the Volksanwälten in 2004. The Committee meetings will be attended by one of the three lawyers. At the last meeting this was Mr. Volksanwalt Dr. Peter Kostelka. As already before him Rosemarie Bauer, who was the first to take part in a committee, Volksanwalt Kostelka pointed out to us the problems of the citizens and reported interestingly from his field of activity. He was particularly concerned about the number of human rights violations. I believe that the cooperation between the People's Procuratorate and the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives is very important because it is easier to identify shortcomings and find solutions together. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! In my opinion, this is a major improvement of the Committee. As my speaking time is already ending, I would just like to say that we are working very hard in the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives in the interests of Austrian citizens, and I am convinced that this will continue to be the case in the future. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17875	The next item is the report by Mrs Rester-Hintersieer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17893	Madam President. High house! I would like to share my speech in two parts, first of all in a rather factual statement on the subject of the petition that we, Mr Pirklhuber and I, have made, namely on the topic of milk petitions, on which there is a long opinion of the Ministry, in which there is a factic presentation other than that which is in our hands in a parliamentary question. That seems very strange to me. This opinion of the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry states that two thirds of the farms that have been given an allocation of the incriminated milk quota had less than 100 000 kilograms of A-Quote. – On the other hand, in a parliamentary response to the question, we have received the information that 70 percent of all farms receiving quota allocations had over 100 000 kilograms of milk quota. So what's true? - We don't know who the Federal Ministry told the truth. We're going to follow that up. - That's one. The other thing is that I now had to experience with the petitions, too, that the citizens who turn to a parliamentarian or a parliamentarian, with very great hopes, come to us with visions about a better democratic future, because they feel that they can finally come directly into contact with Parliament. For the first time, they have the impression that they are being taken seriously. I think it is very significant now that Mr. Freund has spoken about a "freedom" with which we meet each issue. That's, I think, a very strange choice of words. That's our commitment! We are obliged to do so – and have not here “to be generous” like a sovereign who approves of something to the people. [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] But fact is rather when people go home and ask after some time: What about our petition now? that you have to tell them then: This is in the Committee on Petitions, which will never take place, as my colleague Mrs Haidlmayr has already said. Then one has to tell them that there is an opinion, and finally one has to say to them: This was taken note of by the opinion. This is like an earbeat for many citizens! Nor do they receive any further information from Parliament about what is happening and how it continues. You have to rely on Members to try to bring it back. A Petent wrote me a long letter that really touched me very much. In this, it has been expressed that in addition to a short handshake by the President of the National Council and a photo for the family album, there is no memory left than a shale taste.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17944	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Worm. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e17963	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Haidlmayr pointed out that the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives had done three times last year. I can only say: It's not up to me. I asked our office to set an appointment now for March. On the one hand, we insist on voting the dates with our colleagues and, on the other hand, on how the attack of the citizens' initiatives is – how many are introduced – and how many petitions are being made. These two requirements are here. Let me also point to something positive. If you look at this collection report today, you will realize that it has been redesigned and made clearer. This is an initiative of the Parliament's Directorate back, and I want to go to Mrs Mag. Blossoms who are responsible for this, thank you very much! [[Congratulations on the SPÖ, the Free and the Greens.]] I can show it to you by an example where it is really easy to understand. It is also part of this committee that one offers a service to citizens, to citizens' initiatives. The following can now be understood: first of all, the name of the citizens' initiative, in this case for example the citizens' initiative on the issue of the ban on animal testing of large apes, as well as the consignors. Further: When was this initiative allocated to the Committee? When was she treated? – This happened three times. It is also necessary to read what opinions and comments have been received, and the way in which they are carried out is also noted. In this case, it was a positive conclusion, it took place on this issue in the National Council on 10 October. A resolution was adopted on 1 December 2004. This means that a petition has been concluded positively here, and this is also to be read. In my opinion, it is also in line with the wishes of the citizens' initiatives, contributors and petitioners that one can understand it accordingly. This is the second step towards more democratization, I say. First of all, we managed at the time – President Fischer was still in office at the time, and Parliamentary Director Posch – that it was possible to come to the citizens’ initiatives and petitions via a click on Parliament’s homepage, and that the process “How can I bring petitions or citizens’ initiatives?” is evident. Now this report has been made really clear, and I think that is also a step in the right direction. I would also like to mention a third step. It has now been possible, after initial difficulties, to involve the Volksanwalt/Volksanwalt in our meetings on a regular basis. This, I believe, is something very central and essential for our committee and also for the initiatives and concerns of citizens. In my opinion, it is all our merit, and I would like to thank the members of the committee and also the public prosecutors. [[Congratulation with the SPÖ and the Greens as well as the Abg. Friend.]] Ladies and gentlemen will still come back to what is contained in this collective report. In this context, a petition brought by me, a colleague and a colleague is very important to me, a resolution “Help the helpers”. It is about the fact that for those who dare their lives for citizens, namely for professional firemen and professional firearms women, the corresponding social and pension rights are created, that if they are no longer “flameable” as it is so well called, they will have the opportunity to remain in their profession and not be referred to an auxiliary job. An important petition for me, because it concerns democratisation, is also a petition for the ratification of the EU Treaty to be given to a referendum. This petition was assigned to the Constitutional Committee. I trust that it will be discussed with due care, because it would also be a concern for more democracy. It has always been stressed here that we want to take direct democracy seriously and intensify it. This would be a possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18023	The next speaker is Mr Dipl.-Ing. Dr. Pirklhuber. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. – Ladies and gentlemen, you are speaking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18043	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Wurm has rightly mentioned a few, but important, improvements which have become possible so far, in particular better reporting and the involvement of the public prosecutors. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] However, it is perfectly correct what Mr Haidlmayr has already said, namely that this practice of the government groups, to prevent opinions here, is completely incomprehensible, in the truest sense of the word, Mr Grillitsch. Why can't you get a speech, a speech from several jobs, so that the discussions in the Committee are also more interesting and better, because the width of the problem is understood only then? . Some Members will probably never understand it, I give you the right to do so, as we have seen. [[Abg. Grill: Because it...! That's the scandal!]] If you don't want to understand the problems that citizens have, you can't do anything. [[Abg. Grill: If anyone claims there is no scandals, it's sad! That's what we're talking about.]] But we have seen that very many issues have by far not been dealt with in density and intensity, Mr Grillitsch, even on opinions as it would have been necessary. [[Abg. Grill: That's sad!]] The only positive thing I have to say is that colleague Wurm as chairman always tries extremely hard to achieve a good result here. – But they prevent it, and that’s the problem. [[Congratulations with the Greens and representatives of the SPÖ.]] [[New call for tender of the Abg. Grillitic.]] I will explain to you the specific example of the already mentioned pumpkin farmers' and farmers' petition, as it looks. Mr Grillitsch, you are Steirer, you could have done something there; You didn't. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: Not even...!]] [[Counter-call of the Abg. Dr. Puswald.]] We made this petition in May 2004, ladies and gentlemen, and there was a joint photo appointment with President Khol. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grillitic.]] There was a good discussion climate when it came to handing over farmers, which motivated them to take seriously what they have to offer as specialists, as innovative farms, which produce special products and suddenly become massively disadvantaged through agricultural reform. What's the result? We discussed this twice in committee, in June and December 2004. In this case, there was no single opinion, ladies and gentlemen, and I think that is incredible. There are ten, fifteen, twenty farmers – so many were – not one or two, but a whole bus with farmers has already come – so that this petition is taken seriously here. In addition, 470 people have supported this petition, so this is not a “learcherl”. You say it's done, colleague Grillitsch. What happened? - I'll tell you what happened. [[Abg. Grill: You are not informed!]] The pressure of this petition has led to a small adjustment. But this adjustment looks so much like the actual implementation that only those farmers who grow on more than a quarter of their production area of pumpkin will again be taken into account. [[Abg. Grill: Exactly!]] In reality, however, this is the minority, Mr Grillitsch, a minority of farmers, once again the particularly intensive farms. [[Abg. Grill: And the rest...!]] And the many small Styrian pumpkin farmers, thousands of farms you left on the left! [[Abg. Grill:... makes a multiple!]] You're not even on the side of the government capable of giving these people a proper answer, and I think that's incredible! [[Congratulation with the greens.]] [[Abg. Grill: You probably don't know that again!]] Reasons You don't have that much in between! Please speak and explain this once, Mr Grillitsch! [[Congratulation with the Greens and the SPÖ.]] Always just to “clear” out of the bank, that’s just too little. Work properly and fight for the interests of those concerned, that would be better! [[Abg. Grill: Sure!]] Let me give you an example; I will give you an example of how this has a concrete impact. For example, the agricultural market Austria writes to such farms that grow special cultures, special cultures, in January 2005: In the reference period, you have built a part of your arable land with these special crops, potatoes et cetera, and the agricultural market Austria requests that no reference amount has been calculated on the basis of the legal requirements for those crops for which no direct payments have been granted. - Quote. That's what AMA says in January. Already in May 2004, farmers knew that and were touched in good time. You didn't take it into account! That's a shame, and it's actually a shame how we deal with it. It is the minimum that the people concerned, who bring petitions and citizens' initiatives here, will also receive a proper final opinion! I would argue that they will then also receive the comments that have been received. Then they see how the current government, like you from ÖVP and FPÖ, really deal with the citizens in this country. That is simply unacceptable and unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18242	Mrs Rossmann's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18260	Madam President. High house! I would like to address a petition made by our colleague and Secretary General Uwe Scheuch, namely an initiative by the Austrian Senior Ring under Federal Obmann Pauli Tremel, namely a petition that indicates that there are many people in public life, but also many people at home in front of the television screens, which sometimes cannot follow the language anymore, because simply too many anglicisms are used. You can stand to the petition no matter how you want, but I say: It is a protest against the ever-increasing use of anglicisms. [[Abg. Oillinger: How do you stand for this?]] The cultural heritage of the German language is gradually lost. If one takes France with the Institut Francais, where it is quite traditional to maintain the French language, then we should at least think about it in Austria. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Talk to your colleague Grasser about him talking to us German!]] How can we continue to maintain our Austrian language? We also know that there are over 2 million people who do not speak foreign language. Many older people in particular are affected. I say it is important that the computer language is applied, it is important that our youth learn as many foreign languages as possible, but one should also take into account that in the public sector – and I think above all about the ORF, both television and radio – and in many other areas, it must be possible to continue to pursue German language in such a way that people can understand it. We all know that “blockbusters” are spoken of as “prime time”. These expressions are now used – and this has nothing to do with God’s computer language – daily, with older people simply not being able to join them, and they do not accept it either. That is why I say that the assignment of the Austrian Senior Ring is important to us. We have dealt with the task in the Committee on Petitions, which has been unanimously taken note of. But I also say it shouldn't stay there. As Members of Parliament, we have the responsibility to continue to carry this petition with us and, wherever we work in the public sector, to point out that there are also people who want to replace foreign words with German words or Austrian expressions. We also see this in connection with the fact that we have held the school discussion today, and I also agree with the young people's willingness to speak, that many things are already shortened in anglicisms and that our historically grown language is often no longer applied, but simply the shortened version in English. It sounds partly “cooler”, it is partly easier. [[Abg. Oil: ‘ Cooler ’!]] But we have the responsibility to look at our language and to continue to maintain our language without almost opposing one another. [[Abg. Mandak:... ‘cooler’!]] A second petition that I would like to address briefly, because it is important to me, is the petition “Help the Helpers”. It is about creating a vocational training law, a training law for the more than 2,000 fire brigades in the fire department. The Committee on Petitions agreed that this should be allocated to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and that this process should continue. We know that head of state Dr. Haider will accept this matter, including at the national conference. [[Inter-calls at the SPÖ.]] Unfortunately, the opinion of Vienna is negative, I would like to say; Vienna does not want a shift of competence on this point, which we very much regret. But I know that movement is getting into this problem. [[Abg. Oils: They didn't deserve it, the fire brigades that they had with Haider...!]] I am pleased that we – and this is also our task in the Committee on Petitions – are persistent in this matter and that, when it is dealt with in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, we are not likely to be satisfied with the treatment alone. But I also know that Deputies Keck was commissioned by the Committee on Petitions. I think he's very busy there, and I'm good things that we'll succeed. – Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18356	The next speaker is Mr Kurzbauer. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18374	Madam President. I will deal with the Citizens' Initiative 13. It comes from my constituency in Lower Austria. It is about saving the area between Krems, Grafenwörth and Traiswall and about preventing the planned Danube bridge. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This initiative was allocated to the Committee in February 2004. A statement by the Federal Ministry of Transport, Inno- vation and technology were picked up, and on 15 May, it was discovered. This petition was discussed in the Committee on Transport and was then assigned to the Transport Committee. As mentioned above, this citizens' initiative is about preventing the planned Danube bridge. The Signatories also fear disadvantages for the population due to the threat of transit traffic. They also point out that the documents on municipal offices are no longer appropriate and should be re-planned by the 2002 flood. Now on the subject: It is true that the flood changed its original planning in 2002. A new planning was started, which of course was in line with the flood protection platform. In February 2004, a new Submission Project, along with an Environmental Impact Declaration, was presented as a basis for the race-fixing process. Since the bridge is classified as a high-level road, optimal noise protection measures are, of course, also established. Next week, ladies and gentlemen, on 1st and 2nd. The public debate on the environmental impact procedure takes place on February. Of course, there can be any comments. At the same time, the notifications – whether they be forest law, water law, nature conservation or shipping – are collected. This project, ladies and gentlemen, is an essential part of a large-scale development concept of the high-level road network in the East of Lower Austria, which essentially aims at a large discharge ring between the Lower Austrian Central Area and the Vienna surrounding area. We are, of course, pleased when the procedures are concluded positively so that the construction of this important transport link is no longer in the way. From the current point of view, construction is about to begin. The bridge is expected to be completed in 2008.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18416	Next, Mr Heinzl. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18435	Madam President. High house! I would like to deal with the petition concerning civil participation in the construction of wind turbines. I would like to predict that I believe that wind power is essential; it is important as a renewable energy source. As many project promoters have seen in recent years since the In-Power Act 2002 entered into force, the affected population has, in part, reacted extremely aggressively to the new wind power projects. The mandatory implementation of a concentrated procedure under the EIA Act, which had as its essential content the early integration and information of the affected population, would have saved the population as well as the project promoters a lot of real bad surprises. I therefore introduced a petition in May 2004 on reducing EIA thresholds and extending citizens' participation in permit procedures for wind turbine projects. For wind turbines, the EIA process is currently applied from a total power of 20 megawatts, which is now about 10 to 15 large plants with a height of up to 150 meters, i.e. huge plants. However, such large wind farms are rare. This is why this law is not applied to wind turbines either. In addition, even in the case of the applicability of the EIA law, only a simplified procedure is carried out, in which citizens' rights are truly strong It is also important to ensure that the European Union I therefore thought that a change to the EIA law would be urgent to reduce the threshold for the mandatory implementation of an environmental impact assessment from 20 megawatts to 5 megawatts. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I had to take note of the fact that the government parties to these petitions have prepared a proverbial “primary burial of the first class” by taking note of the Committee. Not even a statement from the Minister for the Environment was to be received, which is particularly sad. You may not believe it, but I'll tell you anyway: They have thus provided a bear service to the wind power, the wind power project operators and the affected population, ladies and gentlemen of the government coalition!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18477	Next, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Missethon's word. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18495	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! Three comments on petitions and citizens' initiatives: I am of the opinion that through the petitions and citizens' initiatives, we receive a total of interesting information from the local authorities, from initiatives where policy impacts are felt. When I look at the list of petitions and citizens' initiatives, I see: They often come from rural areas, they also often result from traffic problems. From my point of view, we in the Committee have partly the problem of getting these cases as individual cases. I would like to refer to postal offices which we have also been very busy with in this committee. On the other hand, this issue has also been dealt with in the specialist committees. I would also like to warn against political integration of citizens' initiatives. For example, if the initiative of pumpkin farmers in Styria, as Mrs Haidlmayr has said here today, becomes an initiative of the Greens at once, I do not think this is really wise. [[Abg. Oils: Why? Pumpkin kernel oil is just green!]] The pumpkin farmers will be “thanks” for being taken together politically at once. A word on Mr Pirklhuber's comments: This project was also one that was actually done during the process in the Committee on Petitions. A part has happened directly and the rest can pick up pumpkin farmers via public support. I think a good solution has been found. Overall, I think the Committee on Petitions is very important because we receive direct feedback from the local authorities and, above all, from citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18530	Mrs Heinisch-Hosek's next speech. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18548	Madam President. High house! Politically speaking, Mr Colleague, but political implementation of meaningful citizens' initiatives, for which we as politicians are all there, I think. I take the Citizens' Initiative 19 for the occasion today, because this was already the subject of the morning, in order to point out once again that the topic of school quality in Austrian compulsory schools is a very important issue, not only now, but especially now, because Mrs. Federal Minister Gehrer has also recognised – only through the means and ways of changing things in this area, we do not yet agree – that it is high time to act. After all, it was 90 000 signatures, ladies and gentlemen, or, if you wish, two thirds of the parents' associations of compulsory schools, who have spoken against further cuts in the field of education. The concerns of the Citizens' Initiative can be summarized very quickly: In principle, it is about financing compulsory schools, compulsory schools in Austria and developing a long-term national education plan. These are the main demands of this citizen initiative for school quality. At the time of financial adjustment, it was not possible to make the appropriate funds available in order to be able to implement these claims. If Mrs. Bundesminister Gehrer has asked herself here today and has meant that she now wants to provide full day care in all schools of Austria – that is not an ideological concept for us, but a pedagogical concept, I hope for you all too – then I have to ask the question in the room who should pay for it. Many of us are also local politicians. I do not think that the results of the financial compensation, which will bring small improvements to small communities, should be implemented by the Federal Minister for Education. The guiding principle of the compulsory schools, which says a lot, is: Money alone does not guarantee quality education – in that we agree, I believe, all agree – but quality education has its price as well. Without the federal government taking on its responsibility and financially equipping the school quality programme, nothing will change. We wanted to receive opinions from the Committee – now, in conclusion. We wanted an opinion from the Ministry of Education, we wanted opinions from the national school council presidents, we wanted opinions from the liaison office of the federal states and the Ministry of Finance. – Unfortunately, this has been rejected. The treatment of the citizens' initiative is now allocated to the Teaching Committee and we can only continue to discuss, without these opinions, and, I hope, also in the interests of all, especially the children of Austria, we can now implement a lot.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18603	The next item is Mrs Franz. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18621	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! In my statement, I refer to the petition and the citizens' initiative to save our German native and Austrian national language. [[Abg. Oils: Does that really mean that? That's dangerous! ‘State language’! What is that supposed to mean?]] Mrs Rossmann has already talked about this, but I see this problem as less dramatic. A language has grown historically and has changed over and over again in the past – and will, of course, continue to change in the future, since it is exposed to various influences from outside. Let us remember that we have a lot of French expressions, which are very common, in our vocabulary – for example, “Melange”, “Trottoir”, “Friseur”, “Chauffeur” and so on. A living language will always take on new forms, lose old words, gain new ones and develop itself, which is nothing bad, but a sign of the liveliness of language. Once it was the French, we notice today that the influence of the English is getting stronger and that many English vocabularys have found entry into their daily language especially in young people. The modern means of communication, which allow us to be in contact with the whole world, clearly promote this influence of the English, that language, which is spoken by most of the world. It is also the computer language, which includes a variety of professional expressions from English, just as the economy now knows many English professional expressions, such as outsourcing, global players and the like. The advertising industry is also increasingly advertising with English vocabulary. Who's going to an event today? They are “parties” and “events” that are announced and held in the appropriate “locations”. So let's be less excited. Don't whirry – be happy!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18661	The next speaker was Mr Rada. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18679	Madam President. High house! Dear listeners who are still following the debate at this time! I warmly welcome my former teacher. Welcome here at the Hohen Haus! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] If I may comment briefly on the discussion: Mrs Franz, are we not concerned about it but about it? In this petition committee, we are talking about really important things, and I repeat: The Petitions Committee and the Committee on Citizens' Rights and Citizens' Initiatives are the last to have citizens in Austria! And now we break our heads about whether or not we should include certain English vocabulary in our language usage! . So I have never had these concerns in this committee, and I do not want them either. I also do not want certain things to be politics in these areas again and again. That is why I am very glad that in a brief preliminary discussion with my colleague, Kurzbauer, I actually discussed all of this: Together we want a bridge, together we want to come from the north, north-east of the district over the Danube to the capital of the country, to be connected with Lower Austria. Thank you for the clear presentation! All in all, we are repeatedly called upon to continue to operate through petitions with the citizens of all the things that they can no longer enforce in the normal way. My problem was – I brought in this petition, I stand by it and I want to justify it too –: For almost 20 years, coal-laden railway trains from Poland, from the Czech Republic through Austria, and all these years, there were people who had and had this coal dust in their freshly washed laundry; in all these years, people had the problem that they had to live with this coal dust. Now, thanks to the People's Procuratorate, which has really made the most of its efforts, we have managed to deal with this problem in some way. We in the Committee took note of this for the first time, but it has not yet been completed. It is only a shame that, I know, it is not necessary for all these things to be business-orderly – that, when it comes to these things, none of the government is present: whether this is the Minister of Transport, the Minister of Education or whoever deals with civil rights and petitions. We treat so much here, but now no one is sitting on the government bench, while she was full all morning. I thank the People's Procuratorate on behalf of my fellow citizens for whom I have brought this petition.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18722	Next came Mr Schweisgut. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18740	Madam President. Dear listeners! High house! Mr Rada has found a strange introduction because he has said that some petitions are important and some are irrelevant. – So if he makes a petition on coal, it is important if another petitions foreign words, it is irrelevant. I thought it was a very dangerous political development if we started in the Committee on Petitions to assess which petitions are important or irrelevant. I would actually consider that to be inadmissible. However, I would like to comment once again on the petition “Help the helpers” – it has already been sounded two or three times. Since I am also in the Committee on Economic Affairs and we have dealt with this petition twice in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy – Mr Keck will certainly comment on it again – I can say that all four parties have been clear that we have to meet the 2,500 professional firemen in any way if they are trying to create a professional image. However, the difficulty has shown that it is a country competence and is therefore a relatively difficult matter to deal with, especially because it is about weekend work, handling dangerous substances and the like. The fire brigade is not only responsible for fire control, but also for many other very dangerous operations. So we will have to deal with it even further. In the run-up to and during the first treatments, there were differences of opinion as to whether this was purely the case or a vocational training. These have since been cleared out of the world, but we will have to continue to deal with them. I think that certain principles have been established with the harmonisation of pensions, with which new access to invalidity pension has been created. It must also be borne in mind that professional fire brigades are not an uneducated assistant, but have already completed vocational training in other areas, such as craftsmanship or a matura. That means you have to find a balance – and we will certainly continue to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18773	The next item is Mrs Scharer's speech. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18794	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am dealing with petition No. 26 : “More and more security in our congregation”. – This is particularly significant for the legitimate concerns and fears of the population, if security policy, as it is now running, falls victim to the continued austerity measures of the government. The opinion of the Ministry of the Interior speaks of this miracle “Team 04”, an optimized use of resources, prevention measures and the need to use more strip services. – Ladies and gentlemen! How will this work if more than 4,000 planning posts have been saved in the executive since 1999? How is it possible to work more efficiently if the required planning sites are not made available? – This misplanning, ladies and gentlemen, is already reflected in an above-average increase in the crime rate and an enormous decrease in the education rate. Ladies and gentlemen! It remains to be hoped that the new Minister of the Interior will fulfill her promise and look at the situation on the spot, especially in tourist or rural regions, and above all talk to the executives about the real problems. Then it would recognize that the planning posts on the paper do not correspond to the circumstances, not to the extent that many staff are actually employed. It remains to be hoped that she will not take over the personal-political crash course of her predecessor, as a result of which all critics, whether they belong to a party and which party, have lost their functions or have been forced to retire. It remains to be hoped that the course “Man in Black” will not be continued and that there will be objective personnel occupations in all listed positions. This petition reflects the great uncertainty of the executive and, above all, the impact especially in rural regions. Ladies and gentlemen! But above all, the need for security for the population, as expressed in this petition, is to be taken seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18827	The next speaker is Mrs Grander. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18845	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address briefly the petition on quality of life for older people. Barrier-free building is a command of the hour. We have developed an appropriate model project in Tyrol. In 2002, the pilot project “Safer Living in Tirol” was launched as part of the housing promotion and in cooperation with the association “Safer Tirol”. On the one hand, this provides a financial contribution and on the other hand a certificate provides an incentive to pay greater attention to the safety of residents in construction projects. This is an EU INTERREG project. The non-profit association “Safe Tyrol” has set itself the task of raising awareness of the Tyrolean population for possible risks specifically in the residential area, with a view to achieving an increase in safety and improvement in the quality of living in the light of the criteria set out and present. It is important that the creation of awareness by means of the prevention measures offered reduces the high accident rates in the residential area. Over a third of the generation's accidents from the age of 50 onwards, Living area, 70 percent of accidents affect children. I think that's worth paying attention to, you really have to do something. In this context, I would also like to mention briefly a government proposal, namely an Article 15a agreement on the harmonisation of structural regulations: This provides that certain public buildings must be planned and implemented freely, so that the parts intended for visitors, especially for children, older people and persons with disabilities, can be accessible without any other assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18885	The next item is the speech by Mr Keck. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18903	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! I am not dealing here today with the ‘Help the helpers’ petition, because in this context a resolution has already been dealt with twice in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and we have found a way that we hope will lead to a solution in a shorter period of time. Ladies and gentlemen! It has not been that long since I last expressed myself to the collective report of the Civil Rights and Petitions Committee here in plenary, namely at the end of September 2004, and in my speech at that time I have not only devoted myself to a contentious discussion of this report, but also to the criticism of our or rather the black and blue handling of this committee. Today, as at the time, we are discussing a paper that clearly documents that we have dealt with the concerns and immediate concerns and problems of many citizens of our country. These are 20 issues whose topics are addressed to us by the associations, neighborhood aid or citizens' initiatives. The content of these issues in many cases does not have the slightest party political background, but is often very, very urgent for those concerned, and it is up to us, ladies and gentlemen, to deal with these concerns in a dignified and demanding way. I am thinking of a high-quality and non-political approach and an approach that is problem-oriented and non-political-tactic. [[Complementary of the Abg. May. Trunk.]] Unfortunately, after my last speech on this issue, I also had to say that it seems to be quite different from ÖVP and FPÖ. Among the current 13 petitions and seven citizens' initiatives in this report are those who had to wait a year or even longer for treatment. Many of them were treated only when it was opportunistic for you, ladies and gentlemen of the government. One of the best examples of this is in the current report, among other things, a citizens' initiative on public service pension reform, which was launched in April 2003 – you really have to remember! – was introduced, but it was only in December 2004 that final treatment was achieved and simply taken into account. They postponed the initiative five times before. The initiative is located in the Committee for one and a half years and has been postponed five times, because it was simply not in your mind to treat it. Faith You really, ladies and gentlemen, the people who support these concerns agree with this procedure. Are you? Faith You really think your behavior is what these people feel is serious and serious? – Ladies and gentlemen! I don't believe it, and the people concerned don't believe it either!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18951	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Dr. Brader. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e18970	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Keck, I would like to remind you that, while this petition was being made, the ongoing negotiations on pension reform took place and that the delays and the notice were unanimously taken. I think you don't need to criticise here if the facts were different! [[Abg. Friend: It was unanimous!]] But now to something else: The collective report of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives contains among other things a petition for all parties represented in the Upper Austrian Landtag, which aims to reintroduce the income-independent ORF exemption for those with hearing disabilities. The latter is known to have been cancelled with the entry into force of the 2003 budget accompanying law, and at present all those whose net budget income is 12 percent higher than the compensatory allowance rate are still due. I believe that this is, in principle, manageable, but why should these people pay for something they cannot consume, because on the one hand they hear nothing and on the other hand the offer of subtitled films and embossed sign language translations is inevitably low? In my opinion, therefore, the income-independent exemption for people with hearing disabilities should be reintroduced and maintained until we can really talk about an adequate offer. The allocation of this petition to the Constitutional Committee is quite welcome, and I very much hope that we will come here or through this path to a rapid solution in the sense of the people with hearing disabilities. I also believe that this process will be supported by all the parties represented here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19004	The next item is the speech by Mr Steier. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19023	Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Petitions has dealt with a problem in this report, which has been causing excitement and discussion for months, namely the planned closure of numerous post offices in Austria. Two dealing petitions address this issue, which clearly shows that the population is concerned about the increasing loss of infrastructure, especially in rural areas. Ladies and gentlemen! Several Post Offices Summits in the Ministry of Transport have so far produced few results. The forthcoming amendment to the Universal Service Regulation, which ended a few days ago, also provides for substantial improvements. Experts have considered these to be clearly unconstitutional and inappropriate, even to save a single post office. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister for Infrastructure Gorbach, in some responses to the questions, says that he is concerned about the provision of postal services to the population and the maintenance of rural infrastructure, but that commitment lacks any consistency in real policy. The maximum is more likely to be: More money for KHG and the budget instead of service for the population! The government demands the post-million-divided and then comes astounded when the company has to put on the red pen under this pressure. A written reply from ÖIAG amounted to €29 million for 1999, €363 million for 2000 and €29 million for 2001, €36 million for 2002 and €36 million for 2003. Ladies and gentlemen! A minimum number of postal offices in Austria, which would be a very important contribution to a comprehensive supply, excludes the Minister of Infrastructure. And we certainly do not expect cheaper prices or other prices from the post, as is now preferred by the Minister of Finance. The loss of numerous postal offices in the area will lead to a further thinning of supply, especially in rural regions. Less local and less service to meet daily needs in rural areas means not only longer ways for the population, but also a significant loss of quality of life, identity and home. This thinning policy is increasingly destroying institutions which represent a significant part of the infrastructure for all people, but especially for older people in rural areas. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19065	The next speaker is Mrs Schiesermair. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19083	Madam President. High house! Mr Keck claimed in his opinion that citizens' concerns remain in Parliament for over a year. – We have now looked at this: The Citizens' Initiative on Pension Reform of Public Service was adopted on 22 July. ==References== ==References== ==References== ==References== ==References== In December 2004, the Council adopted a Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data. [[Abg. Keck: Get out of here!]] We unanimously asked the Federal Chancellor's Office and also the Ministry of Social Affairs for an opinion, and finally the matter of pension harmonisation was taken note of. I am very glad that I am in this committee because, as I mean, people are faced with the concerns and wishes of the citizens. The bow is very wide-ranging, from the environment and tourism to transport, asylum, security, social issues to ethical issues and equality issues. The regional concerns addressed to Parliament in this context point to the need for action and I am pleased that we are able to carry out the appropriate initiatives in many areas of a political solution. I am particularly concerned by the citizens' initiatives on pre-implantation diagnostics and eugenic indications. For me, it is clear that we need a great deal of discussion in these areas on the basis of our values and beyond political belonging. The treatment of louder facts, which, for example, leads to legal and financial regulations in the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Budgets, or the Financial Committee, may be an important part of our work, but another, but equally important task for me, is also the political implementation of the concerns and wishes of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19120	Mr Keck spoke in favour of an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: First, bring the corrective and then the corrected facts, all in 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19141	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! Member Brader claimed that the SPÖ would have agreed to the five redundancies in the citizens' initiative on pension reform on public earnings. – That’s not true! That's wrong! The right thing is: The SPÖ did not agree to these five delays, but at the last treatment on the 15th. It was agreed on December 2004, while the Pension Harmonization Act had already been adopted.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19172	The next item is the speech by Mr Oellinger. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19190	Madam President! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Franz, I would just like to remind you very briefly, because you have referred to this point, we are now in the year of thought 2005 and I have been excited to remember why I was excited. They have given a positive opinion on a petition, which reads: “To save the German mother” – and now it comes! ==References====External links== – I am not in possession of the Austrian state language. I speak a native language, and it doesn't matter if you want to call it German or Austrian: The term ‘Austrian national language’ is, in any case, an ideological term. That must be clear to us! [[Abg. Scheibner: This is in the federal constitution!]] Now I don't want to say you used this term consciously. I don't think you did that. But here in Parliament we must reintroduce a phrase which says: We have a German native language, and then there is the artificial construction – that is, nobody says, but everyone who wants to know – “Austrian state language”, that is a strong piece! Ladies and gentlemen! When, in various explanations, warning is given against anglicisms and against the foreign words: This can be a serious way of dealing with each other. - Point one: This is not just about the English language. We also have foreign words from other languages, for example, the term “petition”. This is a classical foreign word from the Latin language. But it wouldn't happen to anyone here to say: We now need to rename this into “bitten letter”. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] Point two. – There are certain terms required. I'd like to tell you, I've come to know you. They all use a “PC”, send from these “e-mails”, they may also have a “Homepage” and sometimes click “Links”, no matter which one. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Grandruck.]] I don't want to miss out on what you're clicking on. The point is: In the idea of the people behind this petition, “e-mail” will then be called “net post”, the “home page” is said to be “home page”, and the link – which some may encounter – is to be called “discipline”. You know as well as I do that it is impossible to define a reference for this type of language. What kind of terrain are you moving on? Where are you going? We are not going to redefine all these terms now! I know. This has also been tried in France, and of course there is a clear failure. Nevertheless: I very much give the right – but these are not necessarily those who have written the petition – to think that when using foreign language terms you also have to be careful so that everyone can share in and we can understand each other. Mrs Franz, I know you certainly didn't mean it that way. Nevertheless, no one should come and speak of an “Austrian state language ” in the year of thought. They really don't exist!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19239	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Grossmann. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19257	Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen! A large number of petitions brought in deal with regional issues, with the immediate environment of life of people, because the population is simply concerned about the basis of life in the regions – and that rightly in times like these. The rural and rural structures are increasingly starved – and you almost systematically have the impression. The infrastructure – which has already been mentioned several times today – is increasingly eroded, and people often know no more how to help themselves than with protest measures. And the parliamentary way of expressing the concerns right here is to bring in a petition. This explains the many regional-specific petitions, but in total they have a federal dimension. So this time we had a lot of petitions concerning the closure of post offices. Common contents are also the decommissioning or timetable changes of regional railways, or it concerns the population about the safety in the municipalities. If you look at what the regions have really had to do with rural and rural structures in recent times, you will find that all these concerns are really more than right. According to the Gendarmerieposten, Post Offices, Finance Offices, the district courts that fall victim to the Savingstift are obviously now looking at the combined plans of the Minister of Justice. I also made a request today. We all know, ladies and gentlemen, that the closure of public institutions not only costs jobs directly in the regions, but that this often also means the outing for commercial businesses and ultimately also speeds up migration trends. That is to say, your balding policy is setting a spiral down, which ultimately has very massive consequences that the population in this country simply does not will. I therefore hope that you will take the concerns of the people seriously, even during the rest of the term of office that you still have, although a lot of damage you do is unfortunately irreversible.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19299	The next item is the speech by Mr Steindl. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19318	Madam President. High house! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Mr Oellinger, on your previous statements with regard to official language German: In fact, Article 8 of the Constitution states that the Austrian official language is German. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Oillinger: Yes, official language!]] [[Abg. Mandak: official language! It's a difference whether it's official language or state language!]] Moreover, I don't think anything of all these word-claves anyway. [[Abg. May. Kogler: That makes all of this worse!]] [[Further calls to the Greens.]] But let's turn to the important things. For me as a Salzburger, this petition is important, which deals with the preservation of the Truckerkaserne in Tamsweg. As a Salzburg Member, I support this petition, but I also very much appreciate the efforts of my colleague Franz Eßl, who is himself Lungauer and has been working for a very long time on the preservation of this barracks site. After all, this is about 100 jobs directly and also about other jobs in the region and overall a purchasing power of approximately € 2 million. I believe that in the already difficult economic situation in Lungau, a closure of this barracks would certainly be difficult to cope with. I therefore call on those responsible to secure this barracks site for as long as possible. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19394	The next item is the speech by Mr Ledolter. 2 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19412	(Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! My venerations Ladies and gentlemen! In the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives, which has once again demonstrated today's debate very clearly, the small and the great concerns of the people of this country are treated and taken seriously. In this context, I would like to reject the criticism of Mr Rada, whom he has expressed here, that the government bank is not fully occupied, for, ladies and gentlemen, this government has taken all petitions in the individual departments very, very seriously, treated, and provided solutions. The example of Mr Keck's criticism shows that pension reform has not only been discussed and dealt with, but that a comprehensive pension reform has also been presented by this government in a significant quality. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and on representatives of the Free Trade Unions.]] However, a major concern, ladies and gentlemen, is the issue of post and maintenance of supply in rural areas. As a recipe, it is also recommended to cooperate with the post partners, in which I see a chance, not only for the post to fulfill their performance, but also for the economy and in the sense of local services and their maintenance. I therefore advocate better framework conditions for the postal partners and find it very welcome that an extension of the negotiation period has already been envisaged and that real solutions are being sought here, without now immediately having to deal with threats to the revision and intensification of the Universal Service Regulation and the like, because we are here addressing people's concerns for maintaining care, but especially because these concerns of the post in the communities are also the vehement concerns of the mayors. This is a mayor's petition, and I am trying to take it seriously.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19454	The next item is the speech by Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hofmann. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19473	Madam President. High house! I am referring to the petition No. 23. As some previous speakers have pointed out, petitions usually have regional concerns, so does this petition, with "St. Georgen a second Traiskirchen?” is called. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This is a real regional concern, a problem which the people there have and which I would like to briefly outline. There has been – and this has been for many years – a Federal Service Office in Talham near St. Georgen im Attergau. ==References== In May this care centre was converted into a first recording centre. When it was federal service, there was the acceptance of the population. This means that the population and the people in the care centre – mostly families – have come to an excellent conclusion. Now this is different, and there are problems. The population of St. Georges has these problems before the 1st century. May, that is, before the actual transformation, saw and also made it known in this way that there were 3 500 signatures in St. Georgen im Attergau. St. Georgen himself has 4,000 inhabitants, that is, one can certainly also conclude from this that it is not a party-political matter, but that this concern is expressed so to speak across all parties. The problems presented in this petition – increased with the 3,500 signatures – were dealt with in the Committee on Petitions and an opinion from the Ministry of the Interior was received. The Ministry of the Interior has tried to disperse or could not understand the concerns expressed more or less. In the meantime, time has passed, so you can say: The decline is detectable, the abuses are detectable, the theft offences, the burglaries are detectable, and the removal of those found in this first reception centre, that is, the submersion, as it is called. It is, as it were, an hour to fail to take note of the opinion of the Ministry of the Interior and to seek to deal with this petition within the Committee so that this petition, which reflects the concerns of the people, is indeed to be dealt with there. As I mean, we owe this to the population of St. George. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19516	No one is reporting on this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are now voting on the request of the Committee on Petitions and Citizens' Initiatives to take note of its report 780 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is the majority and thus accepted. 4. Point Report of the Committee on Budgets on the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany (III-95, e.g.) for 2003 (747 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19559	We're now on the 4th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. We are immediately entering the debate. Mr Matznetter was the first to speak. Voluntary speaking time limit: 5 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19587	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President. High house! Today, in January 2005, we are dealing with the implementation of the budget once again in retrospect with the annual accounts of 2003, and I should like to stress first of all those things in this report that are useful because they are objective facts, determined by the auditor of the Republic, the Court of Auditors. Let us stay at the first point: How is the debt in the time of Mr. Finanzminister's action? Karl-Heinz Grasser developed? On page 30 of the Court's report, it is useful to illustrate the evolution of debt. Let us just stick to the debt which falls within the responsibility of the Federal Ministry of Finance, namely, the federal debt. The debt of the federal sector has increased from 126.7 billion to 135.9 billion euros since the start of office in 2000. This is once again the absolute increase, and you will be protesting that we cannot expect this to happen, but we will remain as a percentage of GDP. Everyone can make a small division, namely the amount of the federal debt in relation to gross domestic product. And what do we find out? Growth without debt? - No, I don't. Federal debt rose from 59.62 percent to 60.64 percent of GDP in this reporting period alone. That means, the entire light panel on the Kärntnerstraße was a skim. What did he do, the young finance minister? - He's increased debt. And what did he tell you here? - We're reducing debt. [[Intervocations at the ÖVP.]] These are things you need to take note of when you are objective. It was propaganda, it remains propaganda, and in reality you have made new debts in your federal area. Listen You, therefore, with this almost already, I would like to say, to give up the lead in the form of statements. The truth speaks against you. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] [[Intrusion of the Abg. Neudeck.]] Should I point out that you have doubts about the Court of Auditors' figures and the report signed by President Moser? [[Abg. Neudeck: Your interpretation!]] No, I only have your numbers. [[Abg. Neudeck: Doubts about your interpretation!]] It is your ability to read, Mr Neudeck. That may be a problem. In such cases where problems with computing and reading have been encountered – we have already discussed the PISA study today – there are also graphics inside for these purposes, Mr. Neudeck. Very practical. Right on page 32 you see that this federal government... – No, no, no! [[Abg. Neudeck: You keep it wrong!]] That's right. [[Abg. Bucher: You should turn the book around!]] They do not want to see this government being the one that has constantly increased the deficit since 2001. The curve ends here in 2003 – Mr Neudeck, this is interesting for you – at 1.1 percent of GDP. But already the budget you decided to participate in the autumn is 1.9 percent, which contains a federal deficit of at least 2.6 percent. [[Abg. Bookbooker: Mix apples with pears!]] You are a deficit-maker and – I remain in your department – debt-makers' government. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] But let's stick to the core question: What did that bring to the country? Did we increase in economic growth? We didn't find out. At that time it was 3.1 percent, and you know the current economic growth figures. In the year under review, in which the real situation was even better, we were only once at 1 percent. Now I say what that means by looking at it in large modo: not fulfilling what was promised, false propaganda, reverse public investment, higher unemployment – 60,000 more unemployed! – much lower growth and rising inflation. – Shame for this kind of financial policy! It is really not what one can call high quality. But the Minister was not only active in this area, he was also active in the New Economy. It is a day when, unfortunately, we – and I am really saying this with regret – we have to note that the Upper Regional Court of Vienna had to find that, contrary to the objection of the deputy prosecutor's office against the decision of the Council Chamber, the procedure relating to the survey has to be continued in connection with an arbitrary financial criminal offence in the New Economy Association and Federal Minister Grasser. I say with all clarity, ladies and gentlemen: This country cannot afford a minister against whom there is a legitimate charge and none of whom the second instance has already established that it is to be agreed as a suspect. Such a person has the Chancellor to propose to the President for dismissal and to make a better proposal. Look at the ÖVP! Maybe you'll find a better finance minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19713	Next item is the report by Mr Jakob Auer. Voluntary speaking time limit: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19735	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I have expected Mr Matznetter to go out of here in the deep throes of his rhetorical possibilities and try to weaken the Minister of Finance and then question the budget figures. [[Abg. May. Trunk: But that is very right!]] Ladies and gentlemen! One thing we can actually say a little critical about this federal accounts statement, namely that we are only now dealing with the 2003 financial statements, in January 2005. In my view, this would also be the only critical remark, but as for the facts, the result, this federal accounts are excellent. It is taken stock of the 2003 budget year, and I think you should highlight something: Have those budget figures that were forecast occurred, or have the unmistakable appeals of the opposition come true? For this reason, I have taken out the Stenographical Protocol of contributions to the 2003 budget and have considered it a little. Mr Matznetter, it would be a good idea if you would read your forecasts a little bit – wrong like most – then you would leave here today and say to Mr State Secretary: Thank you, it was a successful budget year 2003. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle at the SPÖ.]] Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that the result is 0.2 percent better than forecast. Of course, together – one can also say that countries and communities have contributed accordingly. [[Abg. May. Gaßner: And what about growth?]] It is clear, ladies and gentlemen: From your point of view, it was claimed that this 2003 budget would not contribute to employment policy, Austria would, you said at that time to be 0.5 percent below the EU average. Look at what it actually is! We were much better – and still today! – as the EU average! Ladies and gentlemen! At the time of the budget debate, you said that even the voest privatisation that was still to come at that time would become a flop – negative for the employees and difficult for the company. What happened in the meantime? – Their – former – star journalists celebrate the great success of the Voest in a great spectacle. The results are known: You're good. The “Kronen Zeitung”, whose relationship with ÖVP is not very positive, writes: Economic growth – Austria depends on Germany. - Depends on Germany! Mr Matznetter! This is the difference to red-green: Germany – a chronic deficit probe, Austria – also in previous years, today a model student! You should follow this successful budgetary policy – this will become clearly visible at this 2003 federal financial statements! – take an example.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19803	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. Voluntary speaking time limit: 7 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19821	Madam President. Gentlemen on the government bank! Ladies and gentlemen! – Mr President Auer, yes, the Federal Republic of Germany! If we had such a tax rate, you would be pleased. Do not always compare apples with pears, because in the Federal Republic of Germany the matter is of course quite different. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Wittauer.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Mr Kogler!]] If Germany had such a tax quota as we have in Austria, it would have been a surplus in the budget! - That's just the way it is. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] I only notice this statistically. I'm not even saying what's good or bad. – You are always in this race of mutual debt computing or similar. [[Abg. Wittauer:... the unemployed! Employment!]] We have decided not to participate in it any more. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: Mr Kogler!]] - Yes, please. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: If already the tax rate in Germany is so much lower, then the purchasing power on the internal market would have to work perfectly! And what is actually?]] I don't know if you're able to get in a call now. Its view of the economic context. I'm just telling you the following: [[Abg. Steibl: This is a question as to whether you are able to do so! I doubt that too!]] I have just said that I am referring to statistics, and the statistics are clear. – And the next thing that is clear is the federal accounts here. - That's right, too. We have discussed this in more detail in the Committee than is now possible. I just wanted to take the opportunity to thank the Court of Auditors about the President present for the very comprehensive documents – so that we can come to the real issue here. However, Mr Auer, it is clear that the overall deviation is not so great. – That’s right, we didn’t criticize that either. But the point is: How does this overall deviation come together? . Perhaps the President of the Court of Auditors can then comment on the question of reserves shifts and whether these are not actually revenue movements that were not planned, or whether it is not a certain random element, when revenue and expenditure are oscillating, and at the end of the day the balance is half right. [[State Secretary Dr. Finz:...not deficitary!]] So that we are not entirely as inaccurate as we have been in this Chamber, I can ask the Secretary of State – and this is probably still on the subject – to say something about the 2004 figures. We've been worried about some of them, so I assume they must be all the more familiar to you. I would like to ask you if you have already succeeded in bringing to a conclusion the catch-up you have been carrying out since August – Minister of Finance Grasser has announced: This is not even a question of getting back to control of the revenue of the VAT, but, first and foremost, of creating an understanding of where this billion has come from. – I suppose you now know how this was done in 2004. According to our information, only under this item is a loss of € 850 million – Euro! - to report. How could that happen? How can this be argued with today's knowledge and from today's point of view, Mr State Secretary? – They always leave a very firm impression. Or is this number wrong that I called you here? I would then like to leave it and address the tax question only more in so far as I cannot avoid addressing a few questions to the ‘F’ group. - Maybe you can still comment. I was not able to defend the media reports that have been debated on us after the so-called tsunami disaster, according to which the “F” is now a pioneer for the donation-absorbability in this area. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that we presented this to the committee half a year ago. [[Abg. Bucher: But this is not for discussion today!]] – This is, in any case, much more relevant to day-to-day rules than some of your calls! [[Abg. Neudeck: An intermediate call does not have to refer to the item on the agenda, but only to the speaker!]] I would like to ask you how you now deal with this question. Today, we have tabled a self-employed motion for a resolution on the presentation of certain models. – On the question of tax reform, you were still totally opposed – at least you were from the ÖVP. At any rate, they have “not touched earwashing, ” as they say. Today you have the opportunity to express a different opinion – except for the press gallery. Perhaps we can hold this once for the Stenographical Protocol, because this request will soon be dealt with in the Financial Committee. Then you may also come up with the form as you have just shown it here in your call culture. We may then agree, and then we could use a majority – SPÖ, Greens, FPÖ – to enforce a reasonable donation law, which on the one hand not only favours the rich, which keeps tax failures in limits, but at least strengthens the civil society that operates in the areas where we want them all.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e19985	Mr Matznetter spoke on an actual correction. Mr President, you know the Rules of Procedure: 2 minutes' speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20007	Madam President. High house! Member of the European Parliament Auer claimed that economic growth in Austria was 0.5 percent higher than the EU average. He did not mention an annual figure, but this was not the case in the year under review – at 0.8 percent. This is the same value as EUROSTAT. - Maybe he meant another year. Since this Federal Government has been in office since 2000, Austria has not grown above the average in any of the years. – You can read this at EUROSTAT. You have a point of law, Mr Auer, concerning the years 1998 and 1999. That is because we had a growth of more than 0.5 percent better than the average, only because the Federal Minister Rudolf Edlinger and not Karl-Heinz Grasser were called. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20040	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. 4 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20058	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to begin by thanking the Court of Auditors for the documents and for the detailed information on the 2003 Federal Accounts. Perhaps we should be aware of the economic and economic situation in the analysis and consideration of the accounts, in the light of which we should also see these figures and figures. – In 2003, we have the Iraq crisis and the 9th. September 11 – pardon, 11th. September – quite to be created, and the world economy has come to a standstill. [[Abg. May. Trunk: The 11th. September!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: He's already improved! You're coming too late!]] The fact that this world economic situation has also hit Europe is beyond doubt. Ladies and gentlemen, the SPÖ and the Green Group, Matznetter and Kogler! I think we should agree that we are at least starting from the same figures and figures as the Court of Auditors has presented to us in its report. If you focus on these figures and figures in the analysis, you will see that economic growth in Austria is 0.8 percent in 2003 and that the euro zone is 0.6 percent, Mr Matznetter. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: The EU-15!]] - No, I'm talking about the euro zone now! I think we agree on what the EU-15 is and what the euro zone is. – Do we agree on this? - Yes, that's monetary union. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: One is the European Union and the other is monetary union!]] And I'm talking about the euro zone. That's where we're 0.2 percent above the average in growth. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] And you also know why: Because Austria has made an economic policy that has increased growth – and this also confirms Wifo – by up to 0.7 percent with the economic packages, with investment measures, with investment in research and development, with the premium for apprentices, with various other infrastructural investments and priorities. – That is, Austria has managed well. In addition, inflation is also lower than the remaining euro area: in Austria it is 1.3 percent, in the euro zone it is around 2.1 percent in 2000. Mr Kogler! They have also compared the tax rates in Austria and Germany. If you look at the Court of Auditors' report, you will see that Austria had a 43 percent tax and tax rate in 2003, but we are already approaching the 40 percent mark today. [[Abg. Jakob Auer: He doesn't care!]] That is to say, through the first stage, the 2004 tax reform, and through the 2005 tax reform – the largest tax reform in the Second Republic – Austria is in the best way to reduce the tax rate. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, Austria is in excellent sixth position compared to all OECD countries. These economic policies of the Federal Government have paid off, and we are right in terms of the budgetary and economic rates. We are on a good path towards a successful future!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20160	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Please, Mr State Secretary.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20179	Madam President. High house! We estimated a deficit of 1.3 percent of gross domestic product in the 2003 budget. What happened? – A deficit of 1.1 percent. Once again, we're better than estimated. [[Abg. Lentsch: Now the mat netter is on the phone! He doesn't listen!]] [[Abg. Neudeck: Matznetter! That would be for you!]] For comparison: The EU average is 2.7 percent for 2003 and 1.1 percent for us. Mr Matznetter, you mentioned Mr Edlinger. In 1999 – the last year of Minister of Finance Edlinger’s term of office – the finish was 4 956 million. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... Growth, Mr. State Secretary!]] In 2003, the volume of the federal government was 3 498 million, although the volume has increased. – This is our policy! And in 1999 we were the final light in the deficit. – The red lantern we had! [[Congratulations on the ÖVP and the Freeman.]] [[Abg. Jakob Auer: In the EU!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Economic growth, Mr. State Secretary!]] We have a better deficit than estimated, although we had additional expenditure that was not avoidable. The increase in family allowances by 1. For example, January 2003 caused additional costs of € 350 million. Pensions increased more in 2003 than in the inflation rate. – 2 percent was the increase at the time, and this cost 400 million more. Then there were the two economic recovery packages that were decided in autumn 2002. This led to additional loads of €600 million. Furthermore, part of the flood aid was open, which amounted to € 300 million. In addition, we have reformed the import turnover tax. That cost us €250 million. I would like to quote – and this should also be read from the report, if you are fair – that our staff expenditure is lower in the end than in the proposal because we are implementing real administrative reform measures. – There has never been a single time under the previous Minister of Finance for years. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20294	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. Voluntary speaking time limit: 3 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20312	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. We are currently holding the debate on the federal accounts, which the Court of Auditors has examined and submitted to us and which has been returned to Parliament in good quality. Mr Bucher, alluding to the German situation, said that Austria was on its way to reach this low tax rate of the Federal Republic in a few years. First of all, I must say that: You increased the tax rate to 43 percent when you came to power in 2000. – There has once been a strong tax increase for the Austrians. Now, as it were, you're going to lower about to the level we were before. And you will probably continue to lower it because of the decisions you have already made. I am thinking only of group taxation, which will of course lead to a de-taxation of the companies in Austria. If you look at the balance sheet more closely and consider which groups were particularly affected and which social groups in Austria were treated particularly lovingly, when you see that workers with more than 2.6 billion stronger and companies with 1.7 billion lower taxes than in the past, it is noted first of all that there is not only a lack of around 0.9 billion, but not necessarily a positive difference in the budget, but it is also a very unfair social distribution of the burdens and the harvest. That is why we will not, of course, agree to this policy. And even though the Secretary of State has made a great effort to defend government policy: It won't make her any better. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20357	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. 3 minutes of voluntary time limit. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20376	Madam President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! The proposal for the 2003 budget provided for a reduction of 1.3% of GDP. In fact, a 1.1 percent balance was determined in the federal accounts drawn up by the Court of Auditors. With this, Austria was able to undermine the EU reference value of 3 per cent by far. We also do not need a special arrangement such as our neighbours in Germany with a red-green coalition. [[Abg. May. Kogler: Not again!]] Despite the close economic linkage with Germany, Austria can make a far better balance. The fact is – Mr Matznetter, you cannot discuss that away! – that government debt has fallen in relation to GDP compared with 2002 and that the deficit is lower than estimated. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: It has risen!]] With these facts and facts, we maintain every comparison in Europe. Among the EU-15 countries at that time, Austria is in the forefront. – All this has been done by the government in a Europe-wide, indeed globally extremely difficult year. Mr Gartlehner! The tax reform 2004/2005 – by the way, the largest of the Second Republic, a tax reform that is not financed for the first time and in which both workers, pensioners, families, farmers, entrepreneurs and businesses are relieved – strengthens the purchasing power of our fellow citizens and improves the economic location of Austria. [[Abg. May. Kogler: 2 million get exactly nothing!]] [[Abg. May. Kogler: Is not true!]] During my numerous business visits, I was able to convince myself of the great acceptance of this tax reform and the good mood of both employees and employers. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] Mr Matznetter! You can't solve any problems with sick people. They act responsibly by trying to speak badly of the good mood that exists in the country. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: What kind of “good mood”?]] [[Abg. May. Gaßner: Maximum at the carnival meeting!]] [[Ironic hustle and bustle with the Greens.]] We were able to record a double-digit export increase in the last quarter. Last year, goods and services were exported at an equivalent value of almost €89 billion. The “Kurier” today titles: Products from Austria are sought as never before. – It can thus be said that there has been a balanced trade balance for the second time since the Republic of Austria was established, each under a German Chancellor Schüssel and a Finance Minister Grasser. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Under the motto “social is what creates work”, I would also like to present you with a few facts about unemployment. [[Abg. May. Kogler:... Follow the downhill!]] According to conventional statistics, Austria averages 7.1 percent in 2004, and Upper Austria is 4.4%. For comparison: Vienna accounts for 9.8 percent, more than twice as much as Upper Austria. Employment growth in 2004 is at an average annual rate in Upper Austria of plus 8,570, in Vienna at a high minus of 5,761. – This is the difference between the politics of Land Captain Pühringer and Mayor Häupl. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Finally, I would like to thank the officials of the Court of Auditors for drawing up the accounts and I would like to agree with them and with conviction. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... compare with Upper Austria!]]
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20517	Next, Mr Marizzi. Voluntary time limit: 2 minutes. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20535	Madam President. Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) It is clear that debt has actually increased and economic growth is smaller or lower in 2003 – as the Court of Auditors noted. [[Abg. Bucher: Well, that's what a deficit is!]] But the analysis, ladies and gentlemen, was that in the 2003 budget, measures to boost the economy and reduce unemployment were not as important as the economic researchers actually wanted. And – I only have two minutes of speaking time – you know very well that the development on the labour market is worrying. You know very well that since the Federal Government is in office, the black and blue Federal Government, the unemployment rate has increased by almost 64 000, while the reported job openings have fallen by almost 12,000. That is why this Federal Government should set the fight against unemployment as a priority, because the unemployed do not know whether they live in the euro area or in the EU-15, that almost 300,000 people do not have work in Austria. [[President Dipl.-Ing. Prinzhorn is taking over the presidency again.]] Because I'm already a colleague. Finally, I would like to quote Peter Gnam, who wrote about a month ago, before the resignation of Straster from the “destruction” PISA study and about the failure of our education system and thus the competent minister Gehrer. A pension chaos that has become a law, a lot of difficulties in the health system, a finance minister with an empty budget fund – all these tricks have finally caught this black and blue government! Of a proud political balance sheet – because you, Mr Auer, spoke of balance sheet – at the mid-term of the legislative period really can't be a talk! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20573	The President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20591	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! High house! In accordance with the statutory requirements, namely Article 121(1). 2 Federal Constitutional Act and § 9 Court of Auditors Act, I would like to point out that the report on the accounts of the Federal Republic of Germany itself has been drawn up by the Court of Auditors, which comes from the Federal Ministry of Finance. It should be noted, first of all, that despite the difficult environment in which expenditure was found in 2003, expenditure could be stabilised. They amounted to €61 billion in 2003, €387 million, compared with €61 billion in 2002. The estimated budget deficit, as already implemented by the State Secretary, has been down 11.2 percent and is 1.6% of GDP. In relation to the Austrian Stability Pact, the Federal Government exceeded the expected reference value by 0.7 percent by 1.45 percent of GDP, while the overall government deficit was 1.1 percent due to the excess of the countries and municipalities, and by 0.2 percent was below the forecast. I think this is important because the Court of Auditors has stated in its federal accounts that it considers further structural consolidation measures to be necessary. It is therefore also important to mention some data here. It is clear that the primary budget, i.e. after deduction of interest rate service, has deteriorated by €1.4 billion in 2003, from €3.3 billion. It is also noted that there has been additional expenditure in the field of science of € 116 million, in the field of education and culture of € 20 million and in the area of family by € 94 million. The current expenditure was stabilised but increased by €60 million compared to the Federal estimates. It is extremely positive to mention that the reforms have taken place in the public service at the same time as they show that staff expenditure in the field of assets has been lowered by € 103 million, i.e. 1.3 percent, compared to the Federal estimates. In the area of pensions, which must also be mentioned, expenditure on federal staff was €43 million or 1.6 percent higher. Compared to the Federal Estimate, expenditure increases in Chapter 55, pension expenditure, amounting to € 130 million, amounting to €55 million of the national teachers' pensions alone. The tax rate – also a positive effect to be mentioned – has fallen from 43.8 percent to 42.8 percent according to VGR. According to OECD – there are several calculations – a decrease in the tax rate is noticeable from 43.7 percent to 42.3 percent. And so that a third value can also be put to the discussion – as doubts and ambiguities always exist –: The tax rate also fell from 44.3 percent to 43.3 percent in relation to the state and the EU according to VGR. As already mentioned in the debate, debt rose from 131,1 billion to 134,7 billion euros, i.e. 3,6 billion euros, while interest on the BVA in 2003 was lower than in 2002. Total debt fell by 1.5 percent on GDP from 66.6 to 65.1 percent, but in absolute terms it increased from 145.3 billion to 145.8 billion euros. It is also important to mention that the burden of future financial years has increased by over €8 billion and has now reached €71 billion at the end of 2003. It is also worth mentioning that, as honourable Member Kogler briefly mentioned in his speech, the reserves fell from €4 billion in 2003 to €83 million, i.e. €1.2 billion. However, it should be noted that, when compared with the figures in the positive as in the negative, the budget implementation in 2003 has actually been properly managed with regard to the Federal estimates and that expenditure on the Federal estimates could be stabilised in 2003. In this context, however, it is also worth mentioning that the expenditure ratio has been reduced, as mentioned above, by 0.5 percent to 27 percent, while the revenue ratio has fallen from 26.4 to 25.4 percent, and thus stronger. This is also illustrated by the fact that in 2003 revenue fell by a total of € 1 billion from 2002 onwards. It is expected that in the following years alone, due to the tax reform, there will be a decline in revenue development. In view of these findings on revenue-expenditure development, on expenditure increases, in particular in the area of transfers and family benefits, in the area of department, in the area of deficit development, in particular the primary budget, negative reserves development, and also in view of the pre-exposure for future financial years, it is essential to implement further structural consolidation measures in order to achieve sustainable budget recovery. The need for further consolidation was also demonstrated by the 2005 budget report of the Ministry of Finance, which shows that in 2004 the revenue trend deteriorated dramatically, grossly by 1.5 billion and net by around 1 billion euros. The total deficit of the federal government is expected to be 1.7 percent. Taking into account the surpluses of the countries and communities, the forecast deficit value of 0.7 percent will increase by 0.6 percent in 2004 and is expected to be 1.3 percent of GDP. The second stage of the tax reform will enter into force in 2005. In addition, there are other budget-effective measures, and I mention the care allowance, which is increased by 2%. I also mention the increase in public service contributions by 2.3 per cent, as well as additional expenditure in R & D and education. This will result in additional billions of additional burdens for the budgets of the next few years to be countered by appropriate structural consolidation measures. It will therefore be necessary to make every effort to achieve the national stability criteria set out in the financial compensation for 2005 to 2008, which provide for a balanced government budget over the economic cycle with a zero deficit in 2008. In my opinion, however, it will also be very difficult for countries to achieve the planned surpluses from 0.6 percent to 0.75% in 2005 to 2008, as some 80 to 90 percent of national budget expenditure is, so to speak, compulsory expenditure and there is little scope on the revenue side. This is why, I would like to mention this too, as the countries in the years 2001 to 2003, in addition to increased budgetary discipline and structural measures, in particular through the conversion of housing to Maastricht-neutral loan models and by the positive application of ESA interpretation rules and by the allocation of hospitals and real estate companies. In this context, it should also be noted that around 50 percent of the country's surplus was due to restructuring of housing support. For this reason, it will be necessary to start and continue structural reforms with all emphasis. It is therefore to be hoped that the objectives of the Austrian Convention, namely a future-oriented, cost-effective, transparent and civil performance of state tasks, will still be achieved. Only further structural reforms and strict expenditure discipline provide the necessary room for future budgetary requirements and provide the opportunity to counter any negative economic developments in the future. From the point of view of the Court of Auditors, I therefore call on all the decision-makers of the Republic to make every effort to ensure that the objective of a balanced government budget is actually and as planned by 2008 at the latest in order to secure the economic location and preserve jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20683	The next speaker was Mr Kurzbauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20701	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Mr Matznetter, I must repeat your speech once again, on your statements on re-indebtedness. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: It's not necessary!]] – Oh, yes, that’s very important! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: Ah so!]] Let us take a look at the years 73 to 1999. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: 1873?]] No, 1973! From 1973 onwards, the average re-indebtedness per year was 3.2 percent. Since the beginning of the ÖVP/FPÖ federal government, which has been in existence since 2000, including 2005, the re-indebtedness is only 0.95 percent per year. – The comparison makes us safe, valued ladies and gentlemen! [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: You just have to compare the right thing!]] Economic development in Europe in 2003 was rather disappointing: In real terms, economic development in the euro area rose by only 0.4 percent of GDP. As we know, there is also a problem of private consumption stagnation. – Austria, on the other hand, mastered this difficult situation in the European environment very well, yes, I would like to say: excellent, there was, after all, real economic growth of 0.7 percent in our country. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: We used to be better and better...!]] Growth engines were the investments, and this development was supported by the two economic packages of the Federal Government. Despite this difficult framework condition, the Maastricht deficit – we have already heard this today – is 1.1 percent of GDP lower than the EU average in this respect, which was 2.7 percent. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter:... always better! Always!]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! A competitive economy and a modern society demand a powerful state, a state that uses its services efficiently. And the answer – yes, Mr. Matznetter! – gives this government By the administrative reform, a total savings of €1.5 billion will be achieved by 2006; with the standard software SAP/R3, a single, integrated and powerful IT procedure is available. [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: No!]] [[Abg. Dr. Matznetter: Yes, wrong!]] [[New call for tender of the Federal Republic of Germany Dr. Matznetter]] Dear ladies and gentlemen! This Federal Government also demonstrated in 2003 that it has the necessary reform force to continue the reforms launched in 2000 consistently.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20837	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. I'll give it to her.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20871	Mr President. Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Mr State Secretary! The evaluation of the efficiency of budgets and resources used may be carried out in a variety of ways. The basis, of course, in political terms, is the question of the political objective: What do I want with the respective budgets? So there are, of course, great differences between social democrats, you and others. To illustrate that I understand this, however, I must insist that I have absolutely no understanding of what I heard yesterday in a first interview with the new Minister of Social Affairs, Haubner, who said: As a Social Minister, I am pleased that we are moving towards Flat Tax as far as the tax development is concerned! I am not asking what a social minister says about such a spirit – I cannot understand it and I do not want it at all, because in the end it means nothing but less tax revenue, less means to spend money, and that means, of course, less social policy. – So the Minister of Social Affairs would make himself unemployed alongside other people. And that's one of the paradoxes, also in the political debate of budgets. Undisputed, however, is – I think, there will be no one who says the opposite or brings other figures and facts – the impact on businesses and on the private budgets in Austria. What's it look like? – In the period 2002 to 2003, there was a dramatic 7 percent insolvency in the private sector; in absolute terms: 5 643 insolvency in 2003 and 6 318 insolvency in 2004. [[Abg. Wittauer: And how many company start-ups has there been?]] This, ladies and gentlemen, is the fate of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs, of workers and workers. These are not naked cold figures, but fates, incomes! [[New call for tender of the Abg. Wittauer.]] There's no reason to polemise in between now, because: Every single unemployed person, every single company in bankruptcy, is one or more too many! Our goal should be to make a policy in a different direction! [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] Second point – and that is very dramatic! –: Compared to 2004, the number of private bankruptcys increased by 25 percent. And someone used to talk about low fees et cetera. That means: Too low incomes, too high charges, too high social charges or non-social benefits bring us to the point that private businesses, that family households get into insolvency and come before private bankruptcy judges. However, all these are not naked numbers, but – in political terms – a form of bankruptcy. And socially and fiscally formulated: There are great tasks ahead of you, but that would mean that this would have to have a radical change in the financial, a radical change in the budget and a radical change in economic policy. To you, President of the Court of Auditors, Dr. Moser, and to the negligence with regard to the expenditure of means of taxation: I only mention the “Seebühne Klagenfurt” – I have no more speaking time – which will become a case for the Court of Auditors, because the Minister of Finance spends money for which he does not declare himself responsible, and promises to the head of state purposes which the Federal Chancellor does not know in written reply to questions. [[Abg. Neudeck: I believed you didn't have time! Now you have time!]] I hope that an objective test will be carried out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20945	The next speaker was Mrs Lentsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e20963	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors! Dear ladies and gentlemen! High house! Austria moved away from the zero deficit with 1.1 percent deficit in 2003, but we were able to far below the EU-critical value of 3%. If we look at the budgets of Europe, we have to say that Austria is really very good. That has been the case in recent years, and that will be the case in the future. Italy and Germany, for example, continue to exceed the deficit threshold of 3 percent this year – very clearly. On the other hand, we are really good at 1.1 percent. That the opposition sees this differently is its good right, and that is probably in the nature of the matter. Perhaps we would react exactly in their place. They also criticized the Minister of Finance when we had a zero deficit. Minister Grasser can do what he wants, he is criticized by the opposition in Permanence – whether he spends more money to boost the economy or whether he creates a zero deficit. Actually, we were not that far from the zero deficit. We would have done it again in 2005, but the tax reform was much more important to us and hence also the reduction of low incomes. Of course, we could stand there a lot better if we didn't have the old debt on our necks. I'd like to repeat that, Mr. Matznetter. Listen to me, 'cause you've got to break up on your tongue. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What you decided for 15 years!]] When the SPÖ took over from the ÖVP in 1970, after the reconstruction, the financial resort, there was a budget surplus and practically no government debt. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Eder.]] 30 years later, when the Federal Government returned the financial unit, the debt was more than 60 percent of GDP. This is what all Austrians now have to pay back. [[Abg. Dr. Puswald: What you decided for 15 years!]] You can actually say that you put a considerable sum in the cot for every newborn in Austria. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Matznetter.]] That's what I call the social cold, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21025	The next speaker was Mrs Machne. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21044	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. High house! Although the 2003 Federal Accounting Statement, which is currently under discussion, does not show a zero deficit, the EU reference value of 3 percent could still be undermined. By the way, this is a result that a Social Democratic Finance Minister has not achieved in the last 20 years. Thanks to a very good financial debt management and also the favourable interest rate development, the relation of all government debt to GDP was improved from 66.6 percent to 65.1 percent compared to 2002. In particular, the further decline in the overall tax burden, which fell to 42.3 percent in 2003, will continue to decline this year thanks to the tax reform. Our Federal Government has already implemented many and effective structural and administrative reforms in recent years, but only with a further reduction in government expenditure will a balanced budget be reached in the future, despite the greatest tax burden on the Second Republic. An international comparison shows that Austria is far above Germany and above the EU average with real growth of 0.7 percent. Thank you very much, too, for the budgetary discipline that has been observed by countries and communities. Thus, our countries and communities are very much involved in the successful path that the Austrian Federal Government is taking. We thank you for this, and we are happy to give our approval to this billing.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21077	The next speaker was Mrs Stadler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21095	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Mr President-in-Office of the Council! Dear ladies and gentlemen in the High House! The current Federal Accounts 2003 shows that the Federal Government has complied with the requirements of the Austrian Stability Pact. With a deficit of 1.1 percent, Austria is not only far below the forecasts, but above all far below the EU reference value of 3 percent. Many European countries have massive problems at all, or even to undermine, this reference value. This deficit can be seen against the background of the reduced overall tax burden. The overall burden fell to 43.3 percent in 2003. Mrs Trunk! The fact that 2.5 million Austrians no longer pay taxes is a very clear signal that our Federal Government is supporting those with low incomes, because falling tax burden is necessary in order to secure the economic location of Austria, in order to obtain qualified jobs or to create new ones, and to strengthen our families with their children in our country decisively. [[Intrusion of the Abg. May. Trunk]] All of this has been achieved by this ÖVP FPÖ reform government with its reform course, in particular with the tax reform. All the criticism to be heard from you, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition, shows that for many years you have not been able to raise the courage to reform and preserve your persistence. Your lack of courage to be responsible is recognizable in all your speeches. Ladies and gentlemen! This federal billing shows that our federal government assumes responsibility for people in our country, that it makes courageous reforms in order to lead us all into a secure future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21141	The next speaker was Mr Böhm. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21159	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Mr President of the Court of Auditors. The federal accounts report the key figures of the government budget. This was also communicated in an impressive way by the previous speakers. The President of the Court of Auditors has also confirmed the data in an exceptional way. The report shows that after a fall of 0.2 percent in 2002/03, the Federal Government, countries and municipalities, which had still achieved a surplus of 0.3 percent of GDP in 2001, achieved a deficit of 1.1 percent of GDP. The EU reference value of 3 per cent – which we have already heard many times, and that has been confirmed – has been greatly undermined. In the case of Maastricht debt as a percentage of GDP, the Minister of Finance continued its way to the 60 % market despite increased deficits. Thanks to successful financial debt management and favourable interest rate development, the relationship between all government debt and GDP compared to 2002 could be improved from 66 percent to 65.1 percent. Dear ladies and gentlemen! This federal accounts accounts – allow me as an entrepreneur, who has been making accounts for more than 25 years, to say that – is a milestone in the history of budget policy. That's a success story. Thank you very much for that. At the beginning of 2000, with the start of the government coalition of Black and Blue under Chancellor Dr. Wolfgang Schüsslan, we succeeded in creating such consolidated balance sheets for the first time. In the sense of the Austrian economy, I thank you and I ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21195	The next speaker was Mr Keussnigg. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21214	Mr President. Dear gentlemen on the government bank! High house! The figures for the 2003 accounts were presented. After two balanced budgets, there is an excellent third. But I would like to say that budgetary policy is not a self-evident, It is important to see how this budget is implemented in connection with the major policy objectives. And there's a lot to show. This result was achieved even though the tax burden could be reduced, although a new strong “family” focus cost additional money. Despite an economic recovery programme, despite strong impulses in research policy, despite high infrastructure expenditure and despite an active and active labour market policy, this has been achieved – even though we have had a weak economy in these three years. 2003 has run. We have long been interested in the present and the future. Reform policy continues. We now have the tax reform that has entered into force. It is on the security device, it is on the reform of the German army, and it continues with the administrative reform, which is a permanent task. Austria is a wealthy country and a social country. Austria consistently strengthens its position. The year 2003 is a good year on this road.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21253	No one is reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. We shall vote on the draft federal law on the approval of the Federal Accounts for the year 2003 in 747 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is the majority and thus accepted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 5. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (707 e.g._Other Organiser The Federal Act amending the Pensions Act, the Insurance Supervisory Act, the Income Tax Act 1988, the Corporate Tax Act 1988, the Inheritance and Donation Tax Act 1955, the Insurance Tax Act 1953, the Occupational Pensions Act, the Labour Constitution Act, the Labour Contracts Act, the Company Pensions Act and the Insolvency Insurance Act (790 d.b.) 6. Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment 495/A by Mr Dkfm. Dr. Günter Stummvoll, Dipl.-Ing. Thomas Prinzhorn, colleagues on a federal law amending the Investment Fund Act 1993 (791 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21311	We now come to points 5 and 6 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21338	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! With this comprehensive revision of the Pension Scheme Act, we reach another important goal in the context of a strategy, which reads as follows: We want to tackle the challenges of old-age care. Old age social security is today a fundamental concern for the entire population. There is a great challenge, however, and that is demographic development. Three figures on this: Today, every fifth Austrian is over 60 years old, in ten years old, in 2015, every fourth Austrian will be over 60 years old, and in 2030 every third Austrian will be over 60 years old. So this is a huge challenge due to demographic development. Ladies and gentlemen! Next year we will celebrate 100 years of statutory pension schemes because 1906 was the first statutory pension scheme for employees. Over the past five years, this Federal Government has succeeded in making a historic change – I am very careful with this word – from an old age pension that rests on a leg to an old age pension based on three pillars. As far as the first pillar is concerned, i.e. legal old age insurance, which will always be the basis – the payment procedure is not to be replaced – has created a sound financial basis with the 2003 pension reform and the 2004 pension harmonisation. We have newly expanded the second pillar with the settlement – currently there are 1.3 million entitled persons – and we are further expanding it with the present novel to the Pension Box Act. This offers decisive options: Pension fund or insurance benefit with a healthy competition of different products. However, as I have already mentioned, we have re-enhanced it with the finishing. We currently have 400 000 persons, 360 000 insured and 40 000 pensioners who are, in fact, already entitled to benefits from this second leg of old age pension. We have also achieved a breakthrough with the third pillar, the provision of the future. We currently have around 460 000 people in Austria who have opted for this future provision. That is to say, this historical development after about 100 years of pension insurance, this change from a one-pillar to a three-pillar strategy, is the merit of this federal government. We are ready, through reforms, to shape this social security in old age in such a way that it has the future, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21381	Mr Matznetter was mentioned as the next speaker. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21399	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Today, at the beginning of 2005, we are again dealing with the pension funds. However, before we come to the amendments today, I can look back a little on 2003. At the time, a regulation was decided in this House by the majority of ÖVP and FPÖ, which - and this has particularly amazed me - actually against any Ideology, which you indicate to represent, is. At the time, you have intervened in the rights of more than 300 pension claimants, and you have erased there claims based on all contracts based on the law of 1990, i.e. if within five years the total annual income is less than 1.5 percent, i.e. not even covering the inflation rate adopted, even though you have said that the capital is secured by the pension fund. There was a big argument about this by saying: If we hadn't done this, who would have paid it? There was the talk of 400 million, from 600 million, horror numbers up to 1 billion €. The fact was – and we know more today – that it would not have happened in all 127 conflagration communities, but only in parts of them. It would have been significantly lower amounts, and if necessary it would have had to assist the owners of pension funds, banks and insurance companies, their pension funds. They should have done so because in financial markets, a subsidiary's insolvency would have caused much higher costs. You have also had a responsibility, and I have told each of the individual Directors-General: A subsidiary must be supervised. If there is a guarantee service by law and contract, then the company has to stop, and then the owners have, if the management does not fulfil it, to exchange it. All this has not happened, and you have ultimately made a expropriation – a expropriation of claims that people who had to rely on your contracts in this system. They would have had the chance today to fix this error of 2003. They have not seen the chance, and this leaves our feud glove on this question. We will bring an action before the VfGH, and we will see whether such an intervention against the inviolability of ownership – including claims for money or money performance – may be made by you despite Article 5 of the Basic Law. I think it is wrong, which ultimately harms the financial market, the It is the wrong way, Mr President, to look at the precautions you have just praised, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Short to today's law: We already wished at that time that the option would come that investment communities, which make a savings for the end of life, could choose the safer form of life insurance equal. I think each of these voting rights is reasonable. We have more transparency in this proposal – I do not think enough, I say quite openly, here there is much to improve. We would like to see every legal person in the investment fund to see what the situation is, because it would not happen, as we had here, and you would implement the directive. Summa summarum: We want to give the consent, but it has been clearly stated once again: The cold expropriation of claims by going here and saying that the guarantee no longer applies, we will continue to fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21451	The next speaker was Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21469	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer to the present Pensionsskas. There are not many words missing from the law. My previous speakers have already explained what a significant change it is about. It is also a matter of adapting to European standards, i.e. a directive, and in addition more control rights, more transparency and more rights for investors. So in total, this is a reasonable change in the law, with which, I believe, everyone can be satisfied. That is why we will, of course, give our consent to this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21501	The next speaker is Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21520	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! This is, I believe, the first matter of consensus today; the chairman of the Committee nods. In the Committee, we have still discussed how we can achieve a common denominator. We've been convinced; there are sometimes. They'll follow us sometime. - So much for it. On the other hand, and on the other hand: On the basis of this matter, namely on the second pillar of pension provision, one could of course discuss and be of different opinion. It may also be that the difference in occupational pensions would not be so great. In the third pillar, in particular as regards tax advantages, we have different views. Name: If already voluntary and private and more columns, then the question arises where then the large currents go. I admit, they're not the big ones. Only: If, as you have said, we have been pressing for the next ten, 20 years to decide and all the models will be adopted, because they are now heavily applied but are also favoured by what you are so pleased with, then of course you also have to consider something about the public inflows, which are also taxpayers, which will flow in these ten to 20 years. This is the only real skepticism that separates us. In fact, this novelle is a legislative matter, which at least increases the freedom of choice that does not push people into a risky matter, but offers the possibility of collective insurance. That alone is worth it, no matter how it is based on giving the approval to this novel, because it is simply not disputed: That's an improvement! You see me with insight, and we'll be glad if you are.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21550	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Tancsits. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21568	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! First of all, we are making the necessary implementation of an EU directive with this improvement in pension funds legislation. Secondly, in the existing pension fund contracts, we provide the possibility of relinquishing the minimum income in order to achieve greater success. I welcome this, but I also say that, in particular, the workers' representatives, who have a strong word to say in the pension fund system, are also responsible here for a serious consultation: Let me get out of the guarantee. A further step in order to achieve higher success on the market? In my opinion, the new product, which builds practically on group pension insurance and enables insurance companies to offer pension funds, has a very special charm for Austria, because it is particularly suitable to reach employees in the Austrian small and medium-sized enterprises in order to also ensure retirement benefits in the supplementary products of the capital saving process. I think that in addition to the pension reform, as Dr. Stumm fully pointed out, we now have an interesting range of products for the second and third pillars: Employees' pension fund, pension funds, the 25 € pay-off and now the pension fund on an insurance basis. I think that we will succeed in providing a corresponding supplement to old-age care in a business and over-company manner. This is not necessary because the additional columns in Austria have been seriously neglected in the past decades. We not only ensure the pensions of the first pillar, but also provide the necessary additional options to maintain the standard of living in old age.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21611	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21629	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to hear the words, especially from the government parties, as regards collective occupational insurance. Only: I remember that in 2003 – Mr Matznetter has already mentioned it – when we called for this to be strongly fought by the government parties and rejected, which was one of the reasons why we did not agree with the novel at the time. In the event of all legitimate criticism and in the near future: We welcome, as Mr Matznetter has already said, the introduction of this corporate collective insurance scheme, of course, because it does increase the choice of consumers, in a segment where there is a lower risk – even less chance of yield, but also less risk in the investment community. In the run-up to this innovation, we have already received clear positive signals from a number of companies that they are now thinking of taking advantage of this possibility from the works councils. I expect this competition between pension funds and insurance companies to be quite successful for the transferees. Without these novices, a number of local insurers would certainly have taken advantage of foreign daughters, which would have led to corresponding outflows on the capital market. It is all the more surprising to me that this possibility was not originally included in the draft assessment of the government parties and that this possible risk of the capital market was obviously taken into account. It is also gratifying that there is a permeability of the systems. This means that even in the individual case, even when entering the pension, a transfer of capital to the other system is possible. This also increases the safety of the planters, so that the final conclusion of this occupational collective insurance could be: The government should be more often and in time for the Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21671	The next item is the speech by Mr Auer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21690	Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! No one is prevented from thinking and doing something better. The government is doing this today. I would like to acknowledge the fact that today, in the face of all the day-to-day conflicts and all the hustle and bustle that exists many times, unanimity is being signaled by everyone, and I am very happy about that. You should admit: In some areas where discussions lead to insight and proposals for improvement are accepted, a very positive result can be achieved. We should also be happy about this once in a while. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is undisputed that private provision or provision on several pillars based in the future will be more necessary than ever. A professional group has had this for a long time, a second pillar with the exit, and these are the farmers. That was mentioned by me as a farmer only briefly. That's not the point. The fact is that Mr. Stumbling has rightly pointed out demographic development; a few figures as a supplement to it, as a statistical average: In 1970 they entered work at the age of 17, and at the age of 61 they retired, and they had nine years of retirement pleasure. 2004 takes place in professional life at 21 years of age, because higher schools are increasingly being attended, at 59 years of age you go into retirement, and thanks to a very good health policy and improved opportunities you have the chance to be 21 years of retirement. So you don't need to be a special computer artist to realize that what all four political groups welcome, where they confirm their agreement and what they will ultimately decide is important.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21726	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Moser. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21744	High house! Ladies and gentlemen! Despite the agreement of our group on this change in pension funds, I would like to point out a few drops of advertising that remain. First point: Minimum security costs are significantly higher, and in the event of extreme fluctuations, as we experienced in 2001 and 2002, this would also lead to greater problems in this model. Second point: The minimum return on income is subject to corporate tax. That is to say, the Minister of Finance is cashing along, and this tax is, of course, at the expense of pensioners and the claimants. Third point: An alternative to this Köst tax would have been the Dutch or Swiss model, where there is practically a funding level. In other words, it would have been possible in this model to achieve a higher rate of change, which would have led to a reduction in taxation. Fourth point – another point that has not been taken into account – is the fact that structural changes in pension funds have not been addressed. There has been a wide-ranging interest in life insurance, which can, of course, contribute to customer confusion. The last point that concerns me personally is the development of the Austrian capital market. Although there is a significant increase and the volume of emissions has also increased, the number of titles as such has been reduced to 91 this year compared to three years ago, when more than a hundred titles were recorded on the Vienna Stock Exchange. That's why you have to say: The remaining risk in all these procedures is, of course, the cover of capital, and this leads to fluctuations. Nevertheless, we will vote in favour of this amendment. But you should take these points into account in a next step accordingly. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21790	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Ikrath. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21808	Mr President. Mr. State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen. High house! We confess to the second pillar of pension provision, the occupational pension scheme, and thus to the three-pillar pension scheme as a whole. We are committed to strengthening confidence in the second pillar of pension provision, and have therefore put in place an essential measure to achieve this objective. We have not only improved and expanded the freedom of choice by making occupational collective insurance an alternative to the pension fund product for the right-wing person, but we have also developed the pension fund product considerably, among other things – and this is very important – by an optional abandonment of the minimum return. This will make pension funds more attractive, flexible and in administrative expenses significantly cheaper. Of course, it would also have been good if we could have allocated the minimum yield reserve to the different billing groups. I am still aware of this, especially since there are no completed legislative regulations, but also because further developments will be possible in the future. A word on Mr Matznetter: It's very nice to talk to Director-General. It is, I believe, a matter of course that people who have to implement our laws in practice regularly engage in dialogue. We do it every day! Mr Matznetter spoke with the Director-General on a number of occasions. Well, it's not him, it's obviously his level, under which he doesn't want to go. But because of discussions with Directors-General, he believes that he would be able to refrain from appropriate safeguards of a legal nature if, after three atypically bad years of the capital market, the pension funds, and thus the interests of the right-wing and the right-wing, were to be astounded in the long term. I would regard this as a grossly negligent approach to the interests of pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21869	The next item is the report by Mr Bauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21887	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Dear ladies and gentlemen! The agreement of the S & D Party on this novel is based only on the fact that it represents an improvement within this system, since certain extensions, e.g. collective insurance, are made. However, it should not be mentioned that the SPÖ in reality does not see this pension fund system as euphoric with the aim of building a second pillar, as did my previous speaker or other speakers from the government parties, and that has a simple reason: It does not change the fact that this system poses a higher risk than a charging procedure. That's completely undisputed. If I look at how pension funds have developed internationally since 2000, I have to say: It seems obvious how much capital has been destroyed, contrary to the announcements of high yield prospects. Finally, even in Austria, the 2003 BÜG has already shown that everything is not feasible. In this short period of time, I would like to add the following: They have developed a system that can be used from 10 to 14 percent of workers – currently about 414,000 are in line; 370,000 and 44,000 are in service. This means that at best the 10 to 14 percent, which will at all benefit from this pension scheme, will be compensated for the reduction in pensions, which will be at least 15 percent in the future. The majority of workers who are not in this pension fund scheme complete the pension reduction. There is indeed no reason to rejoice in it. My very much appreciated Ladies and gentlemen! Two more points: In fact, the contribution to the pension funds is on average less than 2 percent, and only those above the maximum basis usually have about 4 percent. So there is also a clear shift in favour of the multi-earners. Moreover, in today's situation on the labour market, the question of how many people there are who start with about 25, 30 years of age, with the system that the employer additionally assures them in a pension fund system. Only then will there be the possibility for the worker to make a contribution up to a maximum of the same amount. So if you use this opportunity for many decades, at the end of your career you will receive about 15 percent of your ASVG-pension. This is exactly what the latest pension reform has taken away before. Truly no reason to rejoice, but it is an improvement within the system without wanting to justify the system itself!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21918	Next item is the report by Mr Eder. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21936	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think I can support the comments made by my colleague Bauer seamlessly: We agree with this system, which we are talking about today and which we will also agree with, not because we are so excited about it, but because we want to improve existing systems with it. You can remember a key number here: There is a need for about €70 000 in the system. In order to obtain 250 € extra board after 30 years, if it goes well. So it has to put one together to pay this €70 000 to get that amount out. One still has the risk that if the capital markets do not function as one assumes for the next 20, 30 years, one may have paid €70,000, but far less than the €250 to €300. Nevertheless, I believe that it is good that an EU directive has been adopted across Europe, so that, above all, as regards capital markets, control, security, it has been possible to create more confidence for the population. Furthermore, I regret that, on this occasion, those pensioners who are already inside the system and who two, three years ago, when the funds were suddenly experiencing a very strong breakdown, did not have to take up pension losses, now in times when it will again be cheaper and better to receive the pensions. I think it would be good and cheap if the owners did. A third thing. It should also be recommended to the works councils in the companies to provide for a default liability with the company in the case of occupational pensions, when an increase in occupational pensions is made, where the employer and the employee are paid. If, for capital market reasons, the pension cannot be paid in full, the company would have to pay the difference. That would be decent. I can only recommend to everyone to decide on such contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21975	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Gaßner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e21994	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! If one has followed the statements on this matter of law closely, one could see that the basic statement of the government parties is the following: We get so much older, and therefore we can no longer afford the traditional pension from the payment procedure! It's like the threat. Therefore, everyone has to see that they come to a private pension. – It may be. But consider, please, whether other reasons do not play a role, namely that fewer and fewer workers are producing more and more, creating more and more value-added. You should also talk about it. When I look at the development of self-employed incomes, when I look at the development of unemployment rates, when I look at the development of atypical employment conditions, I realize that very many people, many employees, cannot afford private pension provision at all because they need their low income to get through. I do not think that should be forgotten during this discussion. We will agree with the SPÖ – it has already been said – but I hope it will not be the way it was in the 2003 budget accompanying law, when 400 000 candidates were simply expropriated. I fear that if this majority remains in this House, we will soon have such a situation again, that when a pension fund screams, it will no longer be possible to carry out expropriations again.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22030	Mrs Hagenhofer is speaking next time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22048	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) In 1990 there was certainly a broad consensus that the collective establishment of private pension schemes (a) must offer stable and b) planned pensions. We have built on the principle of trust, including the social partners. There have been objectives that can be achieved by making this trust too. These objectives were: Certain provisions such as fluctuation provisions, restrictive provisions and a minimum income guarantee should be achieved. The result and reality today are the constant liberalisation of the regulation of charges; the minimum interest rate guarantee has been waived. With the possibility of getting out of the minimum income guarantee, pension funds – which must already be said – are increasingly adjusted to the investment funds, i.e. that the full risk of the capital market is imposed on the insured. However, even if we agree with this regulation, we criticize and regret that, in view of the favourable market income situation for pension fund owners, the government has failed to withdraw the expropriation of around 400 000 pensioners and eligible persons under the 2003 budget accompanying law. I would think it would be no grossly negligent handling of pension funds if the government had now returned to the pensioners to protect the pension funds, although something else had been agreed. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22082	The next item is the report by Mr Ing. Gartlehner. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22100	Mr President. Estimated Secretary of State! My colleague, Mr Stumvoll, has reported that it would have changed and improved everything revolutionaryally in the pension system in Austria. I think this picture is a little bit over-emphasized. For many of the people who can't afford this – the government policy is leading to it – this is not a solution. Therefore, the state will have to deal with the problem of basic government provision in the future. I think that this will not really solve the problem of payment insurance and state subsidies. It was very short. I do not want to repeat the arguments of my colleagues. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22127	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. Does the rapporteur want a final word? - That's not the case. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First, we come to the vote on the draft federal law which amends the pension fund law, the insurance supervision law and other laws, including title and entry into 790 of the supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – This is also unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the draft federal law amending the Investment Fund Act in 1993, including the title and receipt in 791 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an appropriate sign. – That is unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. 7. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (663, e.g._Other Organiser Bundesgesetz, which amends the Scheidemünzengesetz 1998 (736 d.a.) 8. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (627, e.g._Other Organiser Agreements between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Kazakhstan in the fields of income and wealth taxes, including Protocol (737, e.g.) 9. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (706 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of San Marino on income and wealth taxes (792 d.b.) 10. Point Report of the Financial Committee on the Government Template (778 e.g._Other Organiser Agreement between the Republic of Austria and the Democratic Federal Republic of Ethiopia on the promotion and protection of investment (793 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22226	We now come to points 7 to 10 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. First of all, Mrs Tamandel. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22252	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to refer briefly to the two agreements on the elimination of international double taxation with Kazakhstan and the Republic of San Marino. The more the foreign activities of taxpayers are, the more for them the importance of international tax law and thus the risk of international double taxation. The task of such agreements is, on the one hand, to avoid international double taxation and, on the other, to prevent international tax evasions. They offer optimum legal certainty. The expansion and modernisation of the network of Austrian double taxation agreements in a global world economy is therefore becoming an increasingly important requirement of today. Austria has concluded double taxation agreements with more than 60 countries worldwide and is in the best way to maintain the international competitiveness of its own economic location not only, but also to expand and thus make the necessary contribution to job security. In the attempt to open up new markets, Austria has for some time been trying to conclude agreements on the promotion and protection of investment with other countries. The aim of these agreements, such as the one now present between Austria and Ethiopia, is, above all, to support Austrian companies in their investment efforts abroad and to safeguard them against risks that arise at all times. The Austrian economy also has an interest in investment in that country in relation to Ethiopia. Already in the 1960s, there was a lot of economic activity between Austrian companies and Ethiopia, but investments were still relatively insignificant due to poor legal certainty. All in all, then, these are essential building blocks to strengthen and expand Austria's economy and thus make the necessary contribution to job security.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22292	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Hoscher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22311	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! Both the two double taxation agreements and the investment protection agreements mentioned above will be approved. However, as far as the Investment Protection Agreement is concerned, there is the addition that the Ministry of Economic Affairs has promised to revise the model agreements in the light of the parliamentary survey that took place. Just a few words to the Scheidemünzengesetz. The upcoming novelle now limits the acceptance obligation of the gold and commemorative coins, which have previously been limited by ten pieces, to € 1,000. On the contrary, there is nothing to object to. However, I would also like to point out from questions of administrative economics and administrative efficiency that this is a novel that will probably never be applied. The occasion is indeed the anniversary coin of the Mütte Österreich AG on the occasion of 15 years “Wiener Philharmoniker”. This commemorative coin has a nominal of 100 000 €. I just think that the danger of someone going to the nearest best shoe shop to buy a pair of shoes there – whether with or without a discount – is marginal and will be imaginablely low – is even more important, since the price value of this coin is about €330 000. That means you have to tell every seller immediately: Hold this customer and accept the coin! Because the price value is the triple of the nominal. For the illustration only: This coin weighs 31 kilos, has a diameter of 37 cm, is 2 cm thick and, as mentioned, has a price value of 330 000 €. We of the SPÖ will, of course, agree on content. However, this novelle clearly falls into the category “employment therapy”. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22353	The next item is the speech by Mr Bucher. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22371	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! My Dear Ones Ladies and gentlemen! On agenda items 7 to 10 on double taxation agreements and investment protection agreements, I would like to say so much that this is certainly a consequence and impact of globalisation, the international economy and, above all, economic relations with countries which have not yet been so much involved in the economic process. From our point of view, this is a very important approximation, because we know that fiscal measures and investment protection measures are important for the implementation of investments and of economic activities that should take place across borders. This is an important and right measure of law that we shall give our consent to liberals.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22402	The next item is Mrs Sburny's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22420	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to refer briefly to the Investment Protection Agreement with Ethiopia. We Greens will agree to this agreement, but I would like to say a few words about it that it may not be in the long run that we agree with such agreements. On the one hand, as Mrs Tamandel has already said, the meaning of such agreements includes the fact that Austrian businesses have a secure legal basis abroad and are protected. On the other hand, standards and standards for investors must also be laid down, which is quite bilateral. In the medium term, it may also be the case that foreign businesses in Austria are affected. We must bear in mind that it is not only about Austrian companies abroad, but also about foreign companies in the country. Against this background, it also has an impact on our domestic economy, as these investment protection agreements look like. This is a relatively complicated legal matter with yet great political implications. At the time of the opposition, a survey took place in which, surprisingly, the government experts with the opposition experts in some of the criticisms were of an opinion which, for example, was the following – I would like to mention two in concrete terms –: One point is that these investment protection agreements are designed to protect public interests. It should therefore be possible to establish at least environmental standards and social standards in these agreements. A concrete effect could be that if we want to enforce domestic environmental standards, for example, that could be regarded as indirect expropriation, and the question is whether this is really in our sense. There is a need for clarification, and we believe that there must be concreteisation. A second point is the transparency and party position of third parties in arbitration proceedings. It is always a matter of how these agreements are legally held, whether investors fulfil the requirements or not, and these procedures usually take place in the secret chamber. That is to say, it is not possible to see how these procedures are going, there is no possibility at present for third party positions. There are a number of other points which we have put into the discussion here. As Mr Hoscher has already mentioned, the development of a new model protection agreement between the Ministries will be negotiated, we will put forward our proposals there. We will also make our further voting behaviour dependent on the results of these discussions. In the specific case of Ethiopia, we will now agree because we assume that there is willingness to talk and that in the future some things can be contributed to concreteisation and improvement.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22462	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the draft federal law amending the Scheidemünzengesetz 1988, together with the title and receipt in 663 of the Supplements. I would like to ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to have a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. I would ask those ladies and gentlemen who, at third reading, agree to this draft law, to give an indication of this. – It is also unanimous. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the present State Treaty: Agreement with the Republic Kazakhstan shall be authorised in 627 of the Supplements in the areas of income tax and wealth, together with the Protocol. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. We shall also vote on the request of the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Agreements with the Republic of San Marino in the fields of income tax and property tax, in 706 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall vote on the request made by the Financial Committee, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreements with the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia on the promotion and protection of investment in 778 of the Supplements I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 11th@item: inlistbox Point Report by the Financial Committee on Amendment No 392/A (E) by Mr Mag. Christine Muttonen, colleagues and colleagues on the revision of the Regulation on the determination of goods and services to be acquired under the BG on the establishment of a limited liability company (BB-GmbH Act) (BGBl 312/2002) (738 p.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22545	We're on our way to the 11th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Dr. Stummvoll. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22569	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! When we passed the Federal Law on the establishment of a federal procurement agency in 2001, the objective was very clear: Optimization of the purchase conditions of the federal government by pooling the orders and the needs. At the time, we were aware of the danger that the extreme achievement of this objective could result in a purchase power deduction from the regions and a total centralisation of the purchase. We have therefore written very consciously into this law that the political will is a double one: first cost efficiency in procurement, second, but also taking into account the regional supply structure through small and medium-sized enterprises, the value added and the jobs in the region. We know that in practice, of course, this is a constant trap between these two political objectives. I would like to admit that, as a regional representative, I have mistrusted whether the federal procurement agency actually succeeds in this trapezakt. In the past, I believe, this has been largely successful, but we have said in the Financial Committee: We put forward a motion for a resolution to the Minister for Finance, which calls on him to give a fair opportunity in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises and to take part in these procurement procedures. Secondly, we have defined what small and medium-sized enterprises are. Thirdly, we have defined the term “region” within the meaning of the EU with the so-called NUTS classification that a single political district can also be described as a region. Fourthly, we have achieved that the technical books fall out of the regulation at all. Due to the permanent extension of the book price fixing, it was no longer useful that we obtain specialized books on the Federal Procurement Agency. ==References== In December of the previous year, the existing contract with Morawa could be dissolved. In other words, the railway is free to exclude technical books from the regulation, no longer to be obtained through the Federal Procurement Agency, and that further small and medium-sized enterprises have a fair chance to get to the train.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22608	The next item is the speech by Mrs Mag. Muttons. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22627	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! It is a very encouraging issue that I can devote to today, namely the victory of late insight into the central procurement of books. One can say that the way is free – the way is free to finally return to where we were two years ago. It is very positive that the government parties have now followed our argument after the long time and are taken out of the central procurement of the federal government. This insight has preceded more than two years of laborious persuasion of the opposition and the experts, and literally in the last minute, yes second, you can almost say, there was now this swing. In addition, as Mr Collegue stupidly mentioned, the government was also lucky, because the contract with Morawa was in itself concluded by 2007, but Morawa released the Minister of Finance from his duty through an agreed settlement of the contract. However, we could have saved ourselves this effort, ladies and gentlemen. We have always pointed out the difficulties of this project, we have already said more than two years ago that a central purchase of books cannot be reconciled with the statutory book price fixing and we do not want to do so. The book price fixing has a meaning, namely the protection of the cultural property book. That is, the government has really given itself a bad blush. Obviously, the one hand didn't know what the other one was doing. On the one hand, the cultural property book was meant to be protected by a pricing law, on the other hand, the Republic itself went hunting for bargains. The fact that the impact of the federal procurement was clearly visible is obvious: massive sales losses for numerous bookstores, the collapse of the regional supply structure by small and medium-sized enterprises and, ultimately, the risk of jobs. But there are other areas, such as the food sector; Mr Kaipel will explain this even more in a resolution. The “standard ” spoke of a “state Christmas miracle. ” I don't want to go that far, but just say, It's full of consciousness, as it just said, and seeing eye was addressed this law, it was done thoughtlessly – and now we are where we were two years ago! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22675	The next item is the speech by Mr Neudeck. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22693	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! In principle, Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have already said everything on this subject in a bold way, and I can therefore refer to the remarks made by the colleague, Mr Muttonen, who seems to be making an elephant out of a mosquito. If she thinks that the specialist book trade and the normal book trade really have a lot to do with each other, then she has little to no idea from this business segment. If you ask about the federal procurement, you will learn that the specialist bookstore is only very little affected by it because it has been most... [[Abg. May. Muttonen: Ask for the bookstores!]] [[Call the SPÖ:No! No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no,]] You can say no, it's true anyway! Ask at the time of the federal procurement! So far, literature has been acquired by specialist book publishers such as Manz, Orac and how they are all called, and not through the normal book trade. [[Abg. Heinisch-Hosek: You have no idea!]] What was obtained about the normal book trade was not affected by the regulation with Morawa, which mainly concerned magazines and specialist books. So we're not where we were two years ago. This may apply to this restricted area, but in principle there is a significant saving in procurement procedures in terms of energy et cetera. We have agreed to this request or have forced it, because we want – and this was also true of the law-making process – that small and medium-sized enterprises and the regional economy continue to be considered as suppliers. We hope to have made it clear once again that the will of the government is, and we will have an eye, together with the federal procurement and the Finance Minister, to ensure that this will work in the future, or that it will be expanded for small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22752	The next Mrs Sburny's speech has been reported. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22770	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! My colleague, Mr Stummvoll, said earlier that the federal procurement society succeeds in this gratification with regard to the regional economy – I am not so sure! If you look at the results of the study on SMEs' access to public procurement contracts submitted by SME research in March 2004, you know that this migration in Austria obviously does not succeed. Compared to other European countries – I have the results here, you can look at it – there are some very specific features of Austria, although we have many, above average, SMEs, for example. also in the context of access to the tender worse cut off. In part, this has to do with this – this is listed in this study – that there are few concrete measures for SMEs to participate in these calls for tenders. The information is not presented as sufficient. Support by electronic means is also estimated to be too low. – So all of this together indicates that access is not optimal. The Greens – I looked at this, because in 2001 I was not yet in Parliament – already pointed out that it is really a target conflict when one says on the one hand that one wants to buy as cheap a shop as possible and on the other hand wants to strengthen the regional economy. It can simply be a target conflict, and that's how it looks in detail. If you want to strengthen the regional economy, it may already be that this is more expensive in individual cases – that is to say, the first look at it – and it can be a profit in a national way. The Burgenlande Landtag commented on this. It has faced this very economic perspective with a short-term savings effected by a pooling in the procurement process. [[Congratulation with the greens.]] That is, from our point of view, this canal migration is not quite successful. I am therefore very pleased that this proposal now excludes at least once, as far as the technical books are concerned, these from the fact that the EU Directive is also intended to favour micro-enterprises, i.e. businesses with up to ten employees. I also hope that in the future, in a report, we will be given the opportunity to explain the measures, or see how the measures you will take, in order to specifically support these micro- and small-scale enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22818	Next item is Mrs Wolfmayr's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22837	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I have to object to colleague Sburny: Especially in this case, the grotto has succeeded, the difficult spagat has been made! The opposition can quickly wish for something and demand something – but government parties have to implement it, they have to do something. It is really not that easy to rely on book price fixing if the great economic trend in the world is pointing towards free market and liberalisation! It is therefore not that easy to put into practice careful but precise regulatory measures – you all know that! We also all know that savings are necessary and that economic shopping, adapted to the changed market conditions, is a requirement – and there is a need to look for solutions. It was looked for, and it was found! There were many involved, and there were many in it – I am glad about it –: the book is not only economic, but it is also cultural! As a cultural speaker of my group, but also as a book dealer and author, I am happy and proud that we have done our best and also achieved the best possible. There have been countless negotiations and discussions between all parties involved, i.e. trade and politics. On the one hand, it is clear from the government that The Commission's proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of Summary: The three-step step: Book price fixing, unlimited book price fixing and, finally, the exception to the procurement of specialist books from the federal procurement system is an excellent solution in the long run. It may have been that it was short in time, but it was point-specific! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22879	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Kogler. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22897	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! I do not know if you want to comment on this at all, after all, the federal procurement society is not entirely outside of your sphere of influence. I must be more and more amazed – even though this matter is still experiencing consensus now – Mrs Wolfmayr, Mrs. Wolfmayr! There's something wrong with that. It has not been so long since we drew their attention to developments that could lead to what has happened. [[Intrusion of the Abg. Dr. Wolfmayr.]] That's not true. You already have your problems with book pricing. Of course, this is something different from the free market. But that's exactly the question: What instruments does a state, a Republic, use to achieve certain objectives? As long as this is possible, this is also a contribution to the maintenance of cultural goods and structures in the regions. You'll know what we're talking about, but if you're listening, you don't know. Are you sorry or are you happy that the book price fixing could still be maintained? - I won't be smart there. Next point: As long as there is a book price fixing, this regulation is, of course, fully in addition. You have been made aware that I would like to hear your opinion on this, Mr State Secretary. In retrospect, everyone is always smarter. It has needed some conviction until you have at all failed to follow, so to speak, the intention of Mrs Muttonen. It is not just the way you represent this, and you should also let it be said, because I have the impression that every time you deal with cultural policy, you are here and take on the role of a defender of duty for the government – in a way that I would not have expected it from you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22941	The next item is the report by Mr Deputies Head. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e22969	Mr President. Mr State Secretary! Ladies and gentlemen! I think that the establishment of the federal procurement society was, of course, a proper and reasonable consideration from the point of view of those responsible, i.e. those who are responsible for the economics of procurement in the Federal Republic of Germany, and it is also timely in many areas of economic success. However, it should not be overlooked that procurement if it: In some areas, of course, the unpleasant consequence can be that the collection of procurement volumes at the end of the day can also bring together suppliers who have unpleasant consequences, especially for the small and medium-sized economy. We have seen this in the book purchase process, but I think we have managed very constructively and quickly to establish a procedure with the federal procurement society, which now also allows small entrepreneurs in this area, namely in book trade, to be not included in the wheels, not unpleasant or negative, to be too negatively affected by this development. You can assume that in a very close dialogue with the federal procurement society, we will succeed in other areas of the economy, where this is equally necessary, outside the regions, because we must succeed in getting these two things: the claim to get the cheapest but to give the small and medium-sized economy a chance to get under one hat. The example of bookshopping and bookkeeping shows that it is going, and we will continue this path.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23006	The next item is Mrs Walther's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23024	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr State Secretary! Just a short extension of my part: As a librarian, I would like to point out that the technical journals in the scientific libraries take the far greater part and that it is important to extend the regulation to technical journals. Secondly, I would like to point out that the scientific libraries have always tried to remove the supply of specialized books from this contract from universities. You, ladies and gentlemen of the government parties, have really fought this over the last two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23051	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the resolution attached to the Committee's report 738 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is unanimously adopted. (E 88.) 12. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (551 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Republic of Slovenia on police cooperation (786 d.b.) 13. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (552 e.g._Other Organiser Treaty between the Republic of Austria and the Slovak Republic on police cooperation (787 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23106	We now come to points 12 and 13 of the agenda on which the debate is being held under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker was Mr Kößl. Please, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23130	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Dear ladies and gentlemen! We are now negotiating intergovernmental agreements on police cooperation. I am pleased that all the political groups have taken note of them unanimously. They are also a milestone in combating cross-border crime. I say again and again that international crime can and must be combated internationally, and this cross-border cooperation is therefore a very important milestone. What are the details of these contracts? . Security cooperation will be facilitated, the public authorities will be reduced, the intergovernmental cooperation of the executive will be improved. For example, the contracts allow cross-border observation and the persecution of offenders. The common strip service along the borders of the state means better guarding an area as sensitive as the borders of the state. Finally, the Treaties also regulate the posting of liaison officers who are already making a major contribution to the fight against crime. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank all liaison officers working abroad for their great performance that is being done there. As one of the executives, I know how important it is to find contacts abroad, in the neighbouring countries. The smooth functioning of the exchange of information with the security authorities and the institutions in our neighbouring countries is a great success of the installed liaison officers. I myself was already in Slovakia and Hungary, I have been able to convince myself of this work and can only say that these liaison officers have made a major contribution to the fight against crime and have played a very important role in moving vehicles. In Slovakia we have been able to reduce the number of these actions by half within two years, because there is a very good cooperation about these liaison officers. Today's agreements with Slovenia and Slovakia are also an important step in the direction of Schengen maturity. We need such cooperation, because it is clear: In a united Europe, Austria cannot and cannot be a single fighter. Security in Austria is also dependent on the security of our neighbouring countries. Dear ladies and gentlemen! I believe that, in conjunction with neighbouring countries, an important decision to combat crime is being taken today, and I would be pleased if we were to continue to cooperate closely with this type of crime. other countries in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23178	Next item is the report by Mrs Pepper. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23197	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! This government template, which we will decide today, is intended to improve cross-border and strengthen cooperation between the Republic of Austria and the Slovak Republic. In fact, there are two contracts: one with our southern neighboring country of Slovenia – which my colleague Posch will address – and one with our northern neighbor, the Slovak Republic. For me as a Burgenlander, who lives only a few kilometres from the border to the Slovak Republic and also has family ties with Slovakia – I have a daughter-in-law from Bratislava – this treaty has a very special meaning. Through the EU membership of the Slovak Republic, the connection with our neighbours has become even stronger, but this border crossing must also have an impact on security. It is therefore necessary to provide the police with the necessary legal conditions to strengthen cooperation in border areas in the future. There are procedural reliefs in cross-border civil assistance traffic, and it is also permitted for police to intervene despite crossing the state border. These are also important measures to combat international crime. Unfortunately, as a Burgenlander, I have to note that there is this crime problem and our population is partly very uncertain and partly in fear: Thefts, car collapses, house collapses are on the agenda, so to speak, and most often it turns out that it is gangs to carry out the serial break-ins “professional”. That is why I think we are making a helpful means of combating crime available to the police through this law. The example of Hungary shows that cooperation works well. – After the fall of the Iron Curtain, it was initially not easy to gain confidence in the new neighbours through the many car thefts. In the meantime, this is no longer a problem. This will certainly be the case with the Slovak Republic. It's all his time. My group will therefore vote in favour of this government proposal.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23237	Next item is the report by Mrs Dr. Partik-Pablé. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23255	Ladies and gentlemen! Often, an efficient crime fight fails because the perpetrators have lost sight of the suspects across the border and the executives have their say. It is therefore very useful to conclude international treaties – like those we are currently talking about – because this will enable the executive to pursue a persecution of crime across Austrian borders. and – something that I think is even more important – by, as in the case of concrete cases, collecting further information with the Slovenian or Slovak border authorities, which is extremely important. In my opinion, in terms of prevention, there is an absolute advantage that there is “mixed stripes”, but prevention is still the best crime fight. There has so far been very good cooperation with these two countries, as well as with other neighbouring countries. This cooperation is intensified by these two agreements, which we certainly agree with.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23288	The next item is Mrs Tamandl's speech. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23306	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The EU Member States, and in particular Austria, want to fight the most consistently against crime, the cross-border dimension of which is increasingly striking. In order to be able to successfully implement this project, enhanced cooperation between all EU Member States, as well as neighbouring countries, networking and mutual assistance are more important than ever. Crime does not stop at our borders, so our answers must also be cross-border. As part of the establishment of a European area of freedom, security and justice, the Republic of Austria has entered into a security partnership with Central and Eastern Europe, with a view to ensuring a high standard of security in this region. Part of this strategy is the conclusion of bilateral agreements on police cooperation, as planned with Slovenia and Slovakia. The objectives include strengthening and deepening the cross-border police cooperation of neighbouring countries and speeding up and simplifying the exchange of information. Europe is a primary objective for organised crime. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, Only the cooperation of the States, solidarity and the fight against crime are the key to pan-European security. I am pleased that at least three parties will agree to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23336	Mrs Prokop, Federal Minister, spoke from the government bank. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23355	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, three proposals are on the agenda and on the discussion, all of which include international cooperation to strengthen security in Europe. I think it is generally said that international cooperation is extremely important – and it is becoming increasingly important for the Ministry of the Interior. The challenges we face today are largely international dangers, dangers which we can only answer and fight together. This applies to organised crime as well as to international terrorism or to the problems related to illegal migration. The Ant- word can only be: Cooperation, cooperation with our immediate neighbours, further cooperation in Europe, close European cooperation. It is also important to find strategic partners who are trying to fight against security problems in both source and transit areas, so-called hot spots, with us. State agreements such as the two just discussed have very, very high priority here. They aim to negotiate cross-border opportunities with neighbouring countries, to provide a clearly defined legal basis in order to create close police cooperation in our environment. With these two agreements, we have now concluded such agreements with six neighbouring countries. These are certainly an important element for closer and closer integration of the security network in Europe and for enhanced cooperation. I believe that with these state agreements, we are making an important contribution to creating an area of security and rights within the European Union, but that it is also – and this is very important – that the EU Member States of Slovakia and Slovenia be involved in this close police cooperation, which we so urgently need in the Schengen area. It is therefore only possible to say: The better cooperation with our neighbours is, the more security we have in the middle of our Europe, the safer our beautiful country Austria will be.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23400	The next item is the speech by Mr Magistrate. Posch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23418	Mr President. Minister! High house! My previous speakers have already said a lot about this treaty on police cooperation with Slovenia or Slovakia, which is not much to add. It is essentially a matter of establishing a European area of freedom, security and justice, the Republic of Austria has entered into a security partnership with a number of Central European and Eastern European States, part of which is the conclusion of bilateral agreements on police cooperation. This significantly increases and deepens cross-border police cooperation between the two neighbouring countries. My previous speakers have already referred to some of these facts, such as cross-border observation, cross-border after-sales or hidden investigations, so there is no need to say much more about them. In reality, in the present case, both states commit to each other an intervention in sovereignty rights, but this is covered by international law. In general, I would like to say this, particularly with regard to Slovenia, that, in view of increased cross-border cooperation, it is hoped that the institutional conditions for closer cooperation in this area may also lead to better neighbourly relations, that there are opportunities for improving the neighbourhood in a sensitive area through mutual knowledge, working together and building mutual trust, and that the EU has thus created the conditions for the border to fall and that borders in the minds. This Treaty can make a small contribution to this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23458	The next item is the speech by Mr Ellmauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23476	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Security knows no limits. Internationally organised crime is increasing worldwide, and our country is an important interface due to its geographical situation in the heart of Europe. Cross-border police cooperation is therefore of utmost importance to our internal security. Thank God for the unity of this subject complex in the House. The unanimous decision in the Committee on the Interior on the strengthening of police cooperation with Slovenia and Slovakia will, I hope, also lead to a unanimous plenary decision on these two Treaties, because this form of security partnership is essential in particular with regard to the countries that have just joined the EU. Cross-border observation and follow-up as well as the in-depth obligation to provide police assistance are important elements of the Convention in the defence of threats to public security and order, as well as in the prevention and prosecution of criminal offences. Officecratic barriers to administrative cooperation are reduced and the opportunities for joint police intervention, such as in strip travel or hidden investigations, are increased. I would therefore like to agree with this law.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23506	The next item is the speech by Mr Murauer. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23525	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Like my previous speakers, I would also like to point out that we are faced with new risks, new dangers in our country, and so we are called to permanently equip our executives for our security with appropriate means, with the appropriate equipment, but also with the legal position so that these new risks can be met, such as organised crime, terrorism, arms trafficking, proliferation, human trafficking, drug trafficking and more. This morning we talked about airspace surveillance, and not all of us in this House have seen to the same extent that we are called to face not only the dangers on the ground, but also that our airspace must be safeguarded accordingly. That is why I would like to ask that, in the foreseeable future, we should also bring about the commonness of these two legislations with regard to police cooperation with Slovenia and the Slovak Republic. Unfortunately, the crime is always in God’s favor. We read this daily in the media and we hear about it. We are obliged to equip our executives accordingly and to make available the corresponding resources to it. If we agree today – of course the Austrian People's Party agrees – I can mention that the increase in the number of Schengen criteria in the new EU countries guarantees not only their security but also our security for the future.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23561	Next item is the report by Mr Dr Liechtenstein. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23579	Mr President. Minister! The essential things have already been said, I can therefore be very brief. First of all, I would like to say, as a youth on the part of convinced Europeans, how much I am delighted about the state of these treaties, because internal security is not only the prerequisite for freedom, but it also has a social dimension. Growing crime threatens to divide society into a small part that can buy security, and into a vast part of society that has to fear lack of state authority for physical integrity, property and wealth. We want the same security for all citizens. Police and justice must receive all necessary and adequate tools to combat crime effectively. We also need Europe to do this. Crimes and crimes must not be rewarded. That is why we are working for a powerful, motivated and authority-recognised police, a police in Europe, a police in this case not only in Austria, but also in Slovakia and Slovenia. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23607	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. I would ask you to take your seat, because we are now voting separately on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request made by the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in question: Agreement with the Republic of Slovenia on police cooperation in 551 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This is unanimously adopted. Finally, we shall come to the vote on the request of the Committee on Internal Affairs, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Agreement with the Slovak Republic on police cooperation in 552 of the Supplements to be approved. I ask the Ladies and gentlemen, who give their consent here to a corresponding sign. – This is unanimously adopted. 14. Point Report of the Committee on Internal Affairs on the Government Template (690b._Other Organiser Protocol drawn up pursuant to Article 43(1) of the Convention on the establishment of a European Police Office (Europol) Convention) amending Article 2 and the Annex to that Convention (788 d.a.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23664	Now we get to the 14th. Agenda item. The rapporteur is the first speaker. . I give the floor to you, Mr Ing. Kapeller.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23685	Mr President. Appreciate Mrs Minister! This is a consensual matter. In principle, the Europol Convention provides for the anchoring of measures against money laundering. The aim is to ensure simplification for liaison officers. One must know that the offence of money laundering requires certain acts that are criminally relevant so that the criminal offence is at all fulfilled and can be prosecuted. These criminal offences have so far been identified without this Convention and this extension via Interpol. That was a detour. This is now being done directly by Europol's liaison officers. This means more efficient and faster intervention for Member States against this organised form of crime. That is a good thing – a real and important step towards a secure and common Europe!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23710	Mr Gaál is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23731	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! We will, of course, agree to this agreement, because more than ever, it is necessary to create an instrument that will enable the effective fight against money laundering. We know that Europol is an important pillar of the fight against crime in the European area, and this, of course, also requires more rights for the European Police Office Europol. Money laundering is not a cavalier crime, it is black money from criminal acts to be washed white. This is not just about tax evasions – although I do not want to do so – but about money coming from criminal activities, from organised crime, which is determined to fight. That is why a yes to this agreement. You know, Mrs Federal Minister, we are at our disposal for constructive proposals. We always have an open ear for constructive cooperation, for reasonable solutions in the interests of the security of Austria and its people. We are always at our disposal and, of course, we are also trying to create the conditions for bringing ourselves in internationally. Unfortunately, in the past there was hardly any interest in our fellow feeling on the part of those responsible for the resort. I believe that security policy, a sensitive area, an area that I have devoted myself to professionally and politically for some 40 years with all my strength, needs a close-up of all the constructive forces in our country. Topics such as asylum law, police reform, civil service reform, events in Southeast Asia – to stay up-to-date – show that we also need coordination and cooperation in civil and civil protection in order to survive internationally. We offer ourselves with our expertise, we are at your disposal here. I would say, Mrs Federal Minister, we have stretched out our hands, the Next weeks and months will show how far you are willing to accept our offer for constructive cooperation, how far you will include our suggestions and suggestions in your conceptual considerations. We want to work together to ensure that we feel security, improve objective security, so that the Austrians in this country feel comfortable and secure. We offer ourselves as competent employees across party borders.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23773	Mr Fauland is now speaking. Desirable time: 3 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23792	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! The integration of European states and the case of borders also brought benefits to European citizens, especially in the field of travel. However, these benefits have also made cross-border transport easier for organised crime. In this way, the European Union considered it necessary to implement a measure with Europol against this new type of crime. Europol's focus is on combating drug trafficking, trafficking in human beings, particularly in the fight against international terrorism. However, terrorism is dependent on financial support in many areas or, more specifically, on all areas. This financial support, of course, is mainly covered by illegal financial resources. To this end, Europol's competence has now also been extended to this area. In our view, this extension is extremely necessary in order to be able to combat international terrorism in a targeted way. That is why we will be happy to agree to these regulations.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23819	The next speaker is Mr Schöls. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23837	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! I am glad that at this late hour we will find a consensus once again when it comes to fighting organised crime together in this House. I would like to thank all those who do not make their contribution to the legislative process, but on the ground. I am glad that we have committed officials who face these challenges. The people who threaten society in the form of organized crime have no excuse. It is very important that our police officers also know that we are behind them.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23862	Mr Pendl is the next speaker. He wants to talk for 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23880	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! As Mr Gaál has already said, we are willing to give our approval to this agreement. It is necessary, as I believe, in today's time to go in this direction also in the interest of our citizens. My previous speaker, Mr Schöls, meant that we would like to thank the local colleagues. I am also very happy to do this with all those who are responsible for maintaining safety. I think they provide excellent services for our citizens and for our beloved Republic. Mrs Bundesminister, we should always remember, in discussions at national level, that for the executive, the appropriate framework conditions she needs are created. Please give me the following information: I believe that the lack of competence of the European Parliament in this Europol Convention must be debated again and that the non-competence of the European Court of Justice is also a question that needs to be dealt with jointly by us in the future. I would also like to thank the Committee for being able to find consensus on the second proposal, the second Europol Convention, when it was postponed in order to clarify a number of relevant issues relating to data protection. I would be pleased if we could also achieve a common consensus in this second Europol Convention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23916	Next word: Mr Miedl. 2 minutes. For a minute, he'll be on his way to the speaker's desk. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23935	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! These are international cooperation and ratification of the Europol Convention into two main international crime groups, namely money laundering and counterfeiting. It has already been mentioned that money for money laundering comes mainly from drug, arms and prostitution transactions and the awareness of the reporting groups, namely notaries and bankers, is essential to the persecution of these organized criminal groups. In the case of counterfeiting, it is true that for the first time, a European method of payment is interesting for counterfeiters, namely the euro. It used to be just or mainly the dollar. There is very good cooperation with the Austrian National Bank and the Chamber of Commerce, which should not be mentioned. The police are relatively good on the road by means of hidden investigators and the establishment of a false money database. These are facts that lead to relatively great success internally. I think international cooperation is essential. Therefore, I am glad that there is likely to be a unanimous decision to ratify this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23965	The next speaker is Mr Deputie's friend. Desirable time: 2 minutes. . You are at the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e23983	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! Austria has already done much to combat organized international crime under the Minister for the Interior of Strasser. We have already participated in Europol early and put great emphasis on this international cooperation. I am pleased that the new Minister of the Interior, Lese Prokop, will also pay great attention to the fight against international crime and will force this international cooperation very much. Today, it takes account of the decision to extend Europol's competence to prevent and combat money laundering, regardless of the type of crime from which the crops come. Europol is thus getting more effective instruments to combat organised crime and terrorism. Many events in recent years have shown us how important it is to be more active in this area and to cooperate internationally. Unfortunately, international crime, terrorism, motor vehicle crime, sluggish crime and illicit drug trafficking are on the agenda today, which do not have any limits. These problems cannot be dealt with by a state alone. It is all the more important that the countries concerned join together – and that we adapt to the new circumstances over and over again. This Convention brings this adaptation to the current problems and improves cooperation between the Member States of the Europol Convention. Europol will therefore receive the fight against money laundering as a core competence, alongside the fight against drug trafficking and towry. I will be happy to give this my approval. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24026	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We are therefore now voting on the request of the Committee on the Interior to approve the conclusion of the State Treaty in 690 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously. The case is therefore accepted. We shall vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the B-VG, the Danish, the English, the Finnish, the French, the Greek, the Irish, the Italian, the Dutch, the Portuguese, the Swedish and the Spanish languages are to be made known by having public access to the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Whoever gives him the consent, I ask him for a sign. – This sign is also given unanimously. The application is therefore accepted. 15. Point Report of the Justice Committee on the Government Template (696, e.g._Other Organiser Convention, drawn up by the Council in accordance with Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union, on legal assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union and declarations (744, e.g.) 16. Point Report of the Committee of Justice on the Government template (697, e.g._Other Organiser Protocol – adopted by the Council in accordance with Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union points out – to the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union and Declarations (745 D.B.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24099	We come to the items 15 and 16 of the agenda, which are the subject of the debate under one. There was no oral reporting. The first speaker is Mr Praßl. His welcome time is 2 minutes. He's got the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24123	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union, which is intended to supplement the European Convention on Legal Assistance, contains provisions of a procedural and substantive nature which should facilitate legal assistance between the Member States of the EU and improve it by introducing new forms of legal assistance. The following rules should be highlighted: Obligation to disclose all bank accounts of a suspect in the event of a connection between the account concerned and the existing suspect, in order to clarify certain serious offences or legal assistance through the opening of accounts, notification of transactions carried out through one or more of the bank accounts. Legal assistance by monitoring ongoing and future financial transactions. The ratification of the Protocol will also have no discouraging effects. Although it cannot be ruled out that there will be a certain increase in the number of requests for legal aid from the other Member States on the basis of which it will be possible. However, the additional burden resulting from this, ladies and gentlemen, will be dealt with with with with the existing capacities. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24154	Next word: Mr. Dr. Jarolim. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24172	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Just briefly: It's actually a consensual matter. What seems remarkable here is at least the fact that it wasn't always like that. Mrs Fekter – or anyone who feels here – will be able to remember when the discussion about noise attack and grid arrest was at the time, we have proposed that one should also be able to raster, because these data are less sensitive, not only for human data with great care, but also with financial data, in order to really fight crime. At the time, you rejected this vehement; we never understood it. It is also true that the Convention had already been signed in 2000 and that it obviously required the European Council Declaration in 2004 that you finally agreed to implement it. We welcome this, of course, because it is an efficient step to combat organised crime. It only shows once again how much you really do, and what you pretend to do is contrary. I am glad that the Council has taken this drastic step and has led you more or less to take action with reason and not just something. to announce, but also to follow this action. In this context, of course, we will be pleased to agree to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24204	Next word: Mr Dr. Böhmdorfer. Desirable time: 3 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24223	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! [[Unrest at the SPÖ.]] I hate to bother you, Mrs Colleague, but I would also like your attention. Maybe I'm able to find out. It has already been said the essentials of what the materials are going on here, and it is gratifying that they are consensors. A legal aid agreement is under discussion to strengthen legal certainty in the EU. That is why we need to think about legal certainty, whether it really exists or whether there is a similarity of legal certainty and the rule of law in the EU, which we should point out here. There is this gap. There is no anti-corruption judges in the new Member States, there is no anti-corruption administration, there is a problem that judges are underpaid – and that is why legal assistance agreements alone will not be enough to remedy this manko. That is why it will not be enough to set up, for example, a European public prosecutor's office, because it only manages, manages and persecutes EU funds, but not the other funds that are taken away by private individuals in inter-state economic transport. I therefore believe that the EU should do much more for legal certainty between Member States. I can tell you that we have 618 prisoners in Austria from EU countries, i.e. we have 618 prisoners in prison of about 5,000 foreigners who are foreigners – in total – whom we will soon have. And these 5,000 foreign prisoners – exclusively the 6,000 domestics – cost us more than €200 million a year. On the basis of these figures, you can see that there is a lot to be done, that we have to get the foreign prisoners in our prisons, in our judicial institutions, so to speak, that the EU must finally take a step towards the execution of its own citizens in its own home countries. This means that the law enforcement must also be carried out in the home states, because if we have the work here that we condemn them, and then they come home with judgments from other countries, they will certainly not be carried out there in our sense. In the €200 million we spend on caring for foreign citizens, non-Austrian people in our prisons, the cost of the proceedings is not included, but only the cost of detention per day, and this amounts to €120. I therefore ask you, Mrs Justice Minister, at EU level – I know that you do so in principle anyway – to ensure that at least in the EU field each state judges its own perpetrators, at least condemns and executes the penalties in its home country, because it is not clear that Austria should continue to remain that country which most foreign prisoners have counted as percentages in its prisons. This is a state which we cannot eliminate without the help of the EU, but which we still need to pay great attention to. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24275	The next speech is from Mrs Stoisits. 5 minutes speaking time. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24293	Poštovane lady i gospodo! Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! I really have a great understanding for Mr. Ex-Bundesminister Böhmdorfer, because somehow I can already place myself in him and understand him that he is here as, under quotations, “simple Members”, when from at least the milestone of his judicial activity, namely the famous and well-known prison in Romania, he becomes nothing, is sad and tries to get indirect sympathy for it. This is what we call a classic "rohrcrepier", Mr. Federal Minister, out of service. I do not hide a certain satisfaction, because the arguments put forward by the Greens, partly also by the Social Democrats, but not so vehemently, against this project, have proved to be correct. Federal Minister! I am just saying – I have only five minutes of speaking time; I have more, but I do not want to talk any longer – perhaps one might even say, because the numbers of foreign prisoners you mentioned, Mr. Federal Minister, are all voting, in the FPÖ and also in the ÖVP, the thought that it may have something to do with it, if Austria now has these high numbers of prisoners in relation to foreign prisoners, that perhaps we are holding a little too much. [[Intervocations with the liberals.]] I do not demand more than to deal with this thought. If we were to put as much energy as this prevented prison building in Romania into this question, then we could actually say to the Federal Minister regarding the tense situation – not to say: Crisis in Austrian prisons – help. That's the first one. Second. I would like to explain to you why the Greens are now voting differently on these two agenda items, why we are not giving our consent to the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between EU Member States. I have already done this in the Committee on Justice, would like to do it again in five sentences, Mrs Federal Minister. Granted, easier legal assistance between the EU Member States sounds good, but one cannot be against it, but one must know what one is for if one is to do so, namely that there is also this easier legal assistance, and thus less legal protection, especially in cross-border hidden investigation, in so-called sham transactions, controlled deliveries, telephone surveillance. I still have no problem with this, Mrs Federal Minister, if at the same time what the EU has already proposed in the Commission's Green Paper in February 2003, namely that procedural guarantees in criminal proceedings are also standardised within the European Union. In the meantime, I have come to know in the Ministry of Justice and know that this is on a good path, but I always wonder why it is going to get stuck on the one hand, while then, when it comes to procedural guarantees and more legal protection, it is much slower and slower. It may be that this is not actually in Austrian responsibility, but it is our responsibility when we ratify this agreement. And there. We would also have had other design options. This is my basic reservation. It is different from the protocol, because the protocol is about rules that are far less sensitive, and that is why, when it comes to legal aid, we will, of course, agree, however I would like to stress that the introduction of minimum procedural guarantees is important to us in these cases too, and I hope that we will be dealing with it here shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24354	President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Miklutsch. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24372	I would like to take a very short look. – Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Convention on Legal Assistance and the Protocol will make a significant contribution to the fight against organised crime. It is therefore very good from the Austrian point of view that we sign this protocol, and you can be sure that we will continue to work for procedural guarantees at European level. Returning to the statements made by Mr Böhmdorfer: It will be the case that I will submit to the Council of Justice, at the informal JI Council in Luxembourg, a proposal from Austria for the area of enforcement in the home country. The current regulation is that we have a Council of Europe Convention in this context, but it is relatively complex in practical implementation. We want to facilitate proceedings at European level – with the aim of resocialising criminalised Europeans in their home countries, which is much better possible there than it could ever be possible here in Austria. Another important point to me – to the accusation made by Mrs Stoisits – is that we have too many prisoners that we would lock up too many: In this context, I should like to point out that a decision on who is being imprisoned in Austria is still taking independent courts and I as Minister of Justice do not have any influence on them and do not wish to have any influence at all. – Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24402	The next speaker is Mr Doppler. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24421	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister of Justice! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) High house! My remarks also refer to Agenda item 15: Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union. The basis for this Convention was already established on 20 June. ==References== The Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union contains provisions of a procedural and substantive nature aimed at facilitating and improving legal assistance between States. The Convention has a legislative and legislative character and therefore requires the approval of the National Council. The main provisions of the Convention are: the relationship with other conventions in the field of legal assistance, proceedings in which legal assistance is provided, and their rules of form, the return of objects, the temporary transfer of persons detained for investigation... [[Abg. Dr. Cap: Isn't that the committee report?]] No, do I have to refer to that? As far as I know, I can make my own speech here. [[Abg. Arbitrators: I think he is!]] The hearing of witnesses and experts at video and telephone conferences is also regulated. I believe that a very important feature of this Convention is the protection of personal data, and this is guaranteed. In this sense, I would like to ask the House for the approval, including the two gentlemen of the SPÖ.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24470	The next speaker is Mrs Stadlbauer. Your welcome time is 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24489	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! High house! We will now adopt a law to facilitate legal assistance between EU Member States and to improve legal assistance by introducing new forms. - That's good. However, I would like to say that there may be a gap between theory and practice, because we can still decide so well-intentioned laws and conventions, but if the practice looks a little different then it should be pointed out at least in advance, and this is about the great under-doing of the budget in the field of justice. This already suggests that many improvements are simply not possible. For example, the law states that in the future the hearing of witnesses and experts can also be done by means of a video or telephone conference. That would be a good proposal, but: The technical requirements are not met, and they will not be possible in the foreseeable future, at least not everywhere. I hope in this sense that the budget debate will take place in March. However, in connection with this criminal matter, which is available to us, let me point to a current issue. On Monday, a study by Reinhard Moos, Alois Birklbauer and Helmut Hinterlehner was presented in Linz, which deals with the conditional dismissal. The authors conclude that in Austria, as we have always said, there would be an even greater potential for people to be released from prison. The resulting dismissal could be further extended. The authors also conclude that this would significantly reduce the cost of prison stays. That would also be a nice counter-proposal on what Mr Böhmdorfer said at first. Another interesting result is that the execution agencies are less mistaken than public prosecutors when it comes to which persons should be released. And a conclusion – anyway a SPÖ requirement – is that the judicial institutions are increasingly used in the dismissal process alongside the social workers. A new study, which will certainly trigger exciting discussions, and in this sense I look forward to the discussions in the Committee on Justice. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24529	Mrs Mag (S). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Hakl. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24547	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! It is interesting – in addition – that this Convention also enables legal assistance in administrative criminal matters across Europe – even if this administrative matter is not an administrative criminal case in the requested State. With regard to the various observations made regarding the execution of the penalty, I would like to give a very concrete example of the practice. During my time as a law practitioner – that is, very long ago – I was a “house Commissioner”, as it is said, and responsible for the concerns of the prisoners of the prisons, one and a half years in the judicial centre in Tyrol. I have now visited this judicial body for the first time after a long time, precisely because of the current debates, and I was really scared because the judicial guards are faced with completely new challenges, precisely because many prisoners, especially from the former Soviet republics, are detained there with Soviet training and an incredibly high tendency to violence. During my visit there, one of the prisoners in a single cell had a three-centimetre thick glass pane with the handcuffs with a jump because we went to him. I believe that this situation is crying for solutions. They must be sought and found both in the judicial field and in asylum law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24575	Mr Puswald is now speaking. He also wishes for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24593	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! After more than four years in which the government parties have apparently delayed the enforcement and implementation of this Convention and not even the Council's request until 31. In December of the previous year, this decision was taken, followed by finally coming to this Convention, with the necessary clarifications and additions being made in legal aid matters. [[Congratulations with the SPÖ.]] It is also gratifying that the new Romanian government has given me a rejection of the absurd idea – the Minister of Justice other than Böhmdorfer, if I so formulated it – to build an Austrian prison in Romania. Mrs Bundesminister, I would ask you not to pursue this project in the interests of all of us. However, I would ask you to pursue a project which has already been referred to by Mrs Stadlbauer, namely that of a conditional dismissal. It does not cost us anything, it must be implemented with few or small legislative changes, and the effect would be an extremely efficient and more positive. Indeed, it would not be painful to “detest ” the prisons, but to achieve a positive effect by promoting resocialization, at the same time countering the overload of the prisons and the staff working there, and also reducing the general aggression that is rising in the prisons. One last request, Mrs. Federal Minister: There is a contradiction between the calculations submitted by your ministry to the court organisation, where it is planned that seven courts should be blocked in Carinthia, and a broadcast by your party colleague, Ragger, yesterday, that you should have informed that you do not block courts in Carinthia. I would ask you to make a clear statement on this point and urge you to reject these original plans and not close any courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24636	Mr Pendl is now speaking. He also wishes for 2 minutes. – Mr Commissioner, you are on the floor.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24654	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! High house! I believe that these points on the legal aid agreements of the European Member States are indeed a matter of consensus. I mean, you don't have to repeat too much. However, I would like to take up two words here, namely those of the Federal Minister and of the Federal Minister for Foreign Affairs, concerning our national execution of sentence. Whoever reads tomorrow’s “Kurier” sees that well-known judicial experts break their heads about how we again – let me have this formulation – get in order in our judicial institutions. At around 9,200 inmates – and I believe the biggest problem we have at present in Vienna – we will have to deal with this matter both nationally and Europeanly, and a wealth of measures will probably be necessary. I am curious and I am also looking forward to a discussion in the Committee on Justice, but I would like to invite you, ladies and gentlemen, to solve this problem of justice with us – it is our common problem. I believe that the people who are employed in Austrian justice, especially our colleagues in the judicial institutions, have a right to create conditions that are worthy of human rights here in the High House. This applies to inmates, but this also applies to staff, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24681	Mr Böhmdorfer is now speaking to us again. He wishes for two minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24700	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I spoke on behalf of Mrs Stoisits once again because she said that the Romania project would be a "rohrcrepier" and that would have killed my favorite project as a former Minister of Justice. I should like to inform you that, following the statement of the Romanian President not to want this prison, the next day the Ambassadors of the Republic of Romania announced to the Ministry of Justice and said that the President of the State was wrong. – The project is alive! I'm just telling you. And it lives for a good reason. I'm appealing to Your humanist attitude, Mrs Deputies, for the following reasons: In the Austrian prisons there are prisoners from 107 nations with 60 to 80 languages, which changes daily. You cannot resocialize foreign prisoners – we currently have 307 Romanians! If you want to resocialize someone, you need to be able to talk to him, then You can give him a job, then you have to be able to teach him work if he's in freedom. You can't do this with foreign prisoners! The only sensible way out is now – and that is why I have mentioned once again – that these prisoners are being brought to their homelands, judged there and the punishment is executed on them and they are resocialized there. You can't do this in Austria!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24745	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is therefore closed. We shall proceed to the vote which I shall put to the vote on each of the Committee's proposals. First of all, we shall vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Convention, drawn up by the Council in accordance with Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union, on legal assistance in criminal matters between the Member States of the European Union and declarations of approval in 696 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen of the House who have given their consent here to give an appropriate sign. Mr. Pilz, Mrs. Moser? – This is accepted in a multi-vocal way. [[Abg. Dr. Gabriela Moser: No, we're against it!]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of Rule 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish language versions are to be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to give a sign of approval. – This is also accepted in a multi-vocal way. [[Abg. Großruck: The Greens are against it!]] We shall also vote on the request of the Committee on Justice, the conclusion of the State Treaty in force: Protocol, drawn up by the Council in accordance with Article 34 of the Treaty on European Union, to the Convention on Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters between the Member States of the European Union and Declarations to be approved in 697 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who give their consent here to give an appropriate sign. – This proposal is approved unanimously by the House. It was therefore adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution within the meaning of Rule 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the Danish, English, Finnish, French, Greek, Irish, Italian, Dutch, Portuguese, Swedish and Spanish language versions are to be made known by giving rise to public consultation in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign. – The consent shall be given unanimously. This is therefore accepted. 17. Point report of the Committee on Science and Research on amendment 488/A by Dr Gertrude Brinek, Dipl.-Ing. Every Achleitner, colleagues and colleagues concerning a federal law amending the Study Promotion Act 1992 (785 d.b.)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24817	We now reach the 17th. Agenda item. There was no oral reporting. The debate opens up to Mrs. Dr. Brinek. Your preferred speaking time is 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24841	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) I am pleased – this is nothing new for the insiders and members of the Scientific Committee – to be able to announce a four-party agreement, thank you also for the cooperative atmosphere and the good climate that we had in the Committee – not only on this point, but also on science and research issues, especially perspectives on it – and I am pleased that this agreement has just come to an improvement for the students. The new scheme is a success for them, because now the time between the degree programme and the degree course, when another degree has been started, no longer has to be eligible for support, or in the case of applications no longer is granted, so that the time between the Master's degree and Baccalaureate studies is handled in such a way that a scholarship can be applied for in a further course of study. In this already quoted positive, constructive climate, we have been able to achieve further improvements in the Committee, such as the clarification of the minimum study success for master studies according to Bologna model; the better regulation of the degree scholarship; the improvement of the promotion of foreign studies; they should be possible as early as the third semester. If we want a European research and higher education area, we should be able to achieve this greater mobility. And with the redefinition of universities – not of course there are faculties – the grant and grant grants should also be awarded, managed, decided where the respective organisational unit, organisational level has to be relocated. The proof of success for magisterial studies is intended to apply to the students who begin their studies only in the year 2005/2006 due to the protection of their trust. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion: Good news for the students! I'm sure there's a lot of consent, and I wish myself such a good law again soon.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24879	The next speaker is Mrs Mag. Trunk. Your speaking time is 2 minutes. – You are speaking, Mrs Colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24897	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Brinek has just mentioned this positive and good climate in the Committee, and I mention it very briefly: The good climate in the Committee is also based on the fact that the opposition parties, in particular the team around Josef Broukal, Erwin Niederwieser, friends, sustainable competence, conviction and cooperation wills. [[Abg. Neudeck: Something has its own praise! There's a proverb!]] And I would also like to say that it might be appropriate on the part of your group to spare us the motion for a resolution that we are going to make today, because we also require the government parties, in view of the good climate in this context, to address even better proposals for innovation and amendments. But: When time comes, perhaps the will to cooperate on the part of the government groups also comes. Mrs Brinek mentioned and formulated the improvements. We will agree, however – and the Minister himself knows this – there is a need for action: first of all in the index adjustment of scholarship heights and appropriate basis of assessment, second – and that must be mentioned in addition, even if it is not specific – in the field of research funding. We have learned that research funding is used, for example, in the AKH to pay off night services. [[Abg. Dr. Brinek: Also for patient care...!]] – I'll come back to that. Due to the new study plans for medical universities, there is waiting times due to the lack of infrastructure, even indebted waiting times. This could mean losing family support and scholarship rights. We are also concerned with the sustainable abolition of the unfair barrier study fees, because students from low-income families are proven to leave or not to enter the studies at all, and secondly because 20 percent of the total scholarship volume is spent on refunding the tuition fees. I think that is neither creative nor social, nor innovative, and we therefore expect the willingness to change. Therefore, on behalf of Josef Broukal and comrades, I make the following request: [[Quoted print version removed]] I expect your consent to be very legitimate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e24996	Mrs Mag. Trunk's motion for a resolution on improvements to the Studienförderungsgesetz and the abolition of tuition fees is sufficiently supported and is therefore under negotiation. The next speaker is Mrs Dipl.-Ing. Achleitner. Your welcome time: 3 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25017	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! Mrs. Trunk, I think it will really be time for you to understand that tuition fees are not an obstacle to students, which clearly shows itself to the number of new enrollees and, in general, students every year, and so forth. [[Abg. Dipl.-Ing. Scheuch: A vague hope!]] [[Congratulations with the liberals and representatives of the ÖVP.]] [[Abg. Mandak: Because the parents have to pay!]] The revision of this Studienförderungsgesetz is truly in line with the current situation of the students. On the one hand, the new university structures are adapted, but also the actual course of the students is taken into account. For example, even for very performance-oriented students, it should no longer be a problem to conduct a parallel study between a basic course and a further degree, but not to fall within the scope of the study funding. As in the last revision, which entered into force in September 2003, where specific target groups were taken into account in the funding of studies, special hardships are now being taken into account in the course of the graduation scholarships if this does not allow time to be observed. One point that must certainly be taken into account in all scholarships in the near future is the study and report of the Research and Technology Council, which has found that the entire system of scholarships is very fragmented, that very high administrative costs are being incurred, and that there must be more transparency and streamlining in the future, especially in the field of scholarships, in the sense of a one-stop shop. Ladies and gentlemen of the opposition! I think it is very positive that you agree this time – in the last revision of the Studienförderungsgesetz, you have unfortunately refused this, although this was also a very great improvement at the time – and I wish we could continue to adopt such positive laws in the future in the sense of the students.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25071	The next speaker is Mr Grünewald. 5 minutes welcome. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25092	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! High house! In small things, it is not difficult to be constructive and to have conversations with each other and to make a four-party request. But it would be important if the government were to show constructiveness and willingness to talk in great things. What's now been made possible is okay. It is also possible to promote students who are short-term in their studies, I now say, “between study”. It is possible for the first time to promote students who start or continue studying abroad after three semesters. That's very positive. And it is also legitimate and in order that it is checked whether the funding has been properly granted, yes or no. You may not be happy about it, but it will be correct. But if I read through what the Federal Government or the parties, what Brinek and Achleitner have written in the explanatory statement, I am going to be a bit stupid, and I would very much like to discuss with the Federal Minister and others. I quote: "In principle, the Studienförderungsgesetz only knows the promotion of the first degree degree." So not a first degree, but the first degree. And on top of that: “Exceptly, the further studies of the Master’s degree and of the doctoral degree can also be promoted in the event of particularly good studies and fast-acted studies.” Does this mean that in the future a baccalaureate study really is the regular study and basic study and that one has to beg and robots to be supported at all during Magister/Magistrate or PhD studies? This is already a question, and so I have become skeptical because you know that the debate on access restrictions has now broken out on the basis of a possible EU decision. And there are only two motives. The motives of the universities can be seen a little differently. They're just saying: Well, due to the lack of money, due to the poor, sometimes even worse, care conditions, the university is inextricably opposed to open access. They say: We can only train so many well – and beyond that there is nothing more. I can somehow understand this, but I don't like it at all, because such a defensive attitude by leading institutions of the University, who say: We would like open and free access, but unfortunately we can not!, could perhaps also lead to the result that they say: Dear Federal Government, you confess yourself in politics, whether in speech bubbles, festive lectures or here, to open access – therefore also provide the necessary resources. I'd have heard that much better from rectors and would have been more honest. Few, I have to say, were able to do this. In other words, many have mentally agreed that the Federal Government is no longer standing by its word and promise of open access. This resignation is not good either. Now I come to the motive that the Federal Government could have. – She says: Oh, well, now I have two excuses. The EU makes a decision. The universities are already beginning to fear in their defensive position and say: Stop, just so much and not anymore! And we are saving ourselves the debate, the Black Peter goes to the EU and to the universities in their self-indebted or octroyed autonomy. It can't be! This is an exit that is too elegant, and I fear that it will be less and less world class if a Master's degree is already a "luxus". Or it says: You may already pay for this because you are one of the elites, which helps you to make a career, to earn better, you will be famous, that should be worth something to you, that will cost you something!Unknown term type: "%s".? But then I say: World class is less and less, and if fewer and fewer students become less and less world class, this is a bankruptcy – or a relative bankruptcy; I am polite – of what you have promised. How to increase academic rates by putting half to two thirds of students already after the first year of insurmountable obstacles, I also wonder. If you want to increase the academic rate by each PÄDAK then getting the “university” door sign and everyone there is a teacher then suddenly university professor, it can’t be either. And to do some of the short studies on regular study in the labour market, I can only say: Good night! Time fits, and some are already tired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25162	Now, Mrs. Gehrer is speaking to us. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25180	Mr President. High house! Today it is a novel to the Studienförderungsgesetz. The Austrian study funding guarantees that anyone who is suitable can study. That means that no one has to give up on financial grounds for a study. [[Abg. Mandak: Go!]] We are making further improvements today so that young people can go abroad faster, so that they are guaranteed to receive a scholarship for their further studies, so that we do not build artificial barriers. I would like to thank my department for funding for studies, which, in good association with the students, with the young people, always listen to the further changes that need to be made, what we need, so that we can support the students even more. And out of this spirit the novelle has escaped. [[Congratulations on the ÖVP.]] A working group has been set up on the further questions raised by the Court of Justice of the European Court of Justice. We will advise this very solid and very intensive. At any rate, I am pleased that this improvement for students in Austria will be taken into account by all the political groups in this House.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25221	Thank you very much, Mrs. Federal Minister. The next speaker was Mrs Wolfmayr. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25242	Mr President. Mrs. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to make just a few comments at this late hour, first of all a specific one to the colleague Trunk, who said that the research funds at the AKH Vienna are used for night services. – Yes, and this is Absolutely not all right, here we are your opinion. The municipality of Vienna has to provide for patient care! I do not want to and cannot now go further on this request. He was just explained by the Minister and also by Mr Brinek. I would just like to say something more generally: We are now dealing with a four-party request. But if we were to be observed from the outside, you would hardly notice that. And I would really like to see a little more justice in relation to our proposals and our desire for reform, in relation to our capacity to implement them. I wish myself more rationality and more sense of reality! If I can take a small side street: I sometimes miss this sense of reality even in counter-proposals. Current example: Mr Zinggl's proposals for change in the museum area. A lot of costs, and there is little to be done about existing structures! Ladies and gentlemen! That's not our procedure. We don't care about costs, realities and given structures. Adjustments, corrections it takes very well; it always needs it – but it does not need radical solutions! Evolution, not revolution, that is, a major form of politics! That's how we're going! Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25282	The next speaker is Mrs Walther. 2 minutes speaking time. - Please, you're talking.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25300	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! We will agree to the amendment of the Studienförderungsgesetz, but we still cannot hide the fact that we consider it inadequate, because the budget for the funding of studies has been frozen for the third year already, and already in 2003 and 2004 we could not find the result with the estimated 147 million €. In 2003, €16 million was missing; for 2004 a loss of €20 million is assumed. Strangely, the method suggests: into a pocket of pants, out of the other. What's that? About 20 percent of scholarships are not scholarships, but substitutes for study fees; it is the so-called study grant. We also see critically that a too low amount was again accepted as a budget item – another EUR 147 million – with which, as already stated, one could not find the result in 2003 and 2004. This is heightened by increasing numbers among students at universities and the expansion of technical universities, where there are above average scholarships to be expected. That's why we stay with it: Abolishing the non-social study fee, index adjustment of scholarship heights and basis of assessment, raising the age limit for scholarships to 40 years and improving the degree scholarship, replacing the tuition fees for earnings up to the limit and, lastly, taking into account important reasons for proof of study success even after the first two semesters. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25336	Mr Magz (PPE). — (DE) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Dr. Brader to the speaker's desk. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25355	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Minister! High house! Students are hardworking young people, who in most cases are employed to be able to finance their studies. It is therefore, I believe, quite and cheap to use financial aid to help these people to concentrate on their training. The Studienförderungsgesetz now provides for the payment of study aid at the beginning of the study to be paid back if there is a certain minimum degree performance. This is also necessary and should be maintained in this form. However, changes should be made to the extension of the duration of the entitlement for the purpose of the study aid due to the existence of important reasons, such as a further or already parallel second degree in magisteria or doctoral studies. I believe that this will increase flexibility and really meet the students, and I also believe that you can start your studies within 12 months of completion of the previous degree – at the Master's degree within 18 months and at the doctorate's degree. In addition, the current regulation provides that no other study can be carried out between the completed primary and further studies, without differentiating whether this other study was carried out or not before completion of the basic course – a slightly targeted solution, and I believe that this was counterproductive for the students. Ladies and gentlemen! We need this change in order to restore barriers to young people and to give incentives so that they can successfully complete their studies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25392	Mr Ing. Gartlehner. He also wants to talk to us for 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25410	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! As I said, we will agree with this amendment to the Studienförderungsgesetz. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that there are a number of essential points which still need to be improved. This is precisely the indexing of scholarships – the current situation has since 1999 led to a real decline in scholarships. In addition, the increase in the age limit for scholarships, possibly to 35 years, should also be realized: People go to retirement later, are very often forced to study longer, because they also work by the way. The whole thing, as it were, draws something into the length, and that is why you should react to it as well. - Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25438	Next word: Mrs Felzmann. 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25458	Mr President. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The Federal Law, which amends the Study Promotion Act 1992, certainly now represents only a small facet in our higher education policy. At the same time, it is good for those students who do a lot of things to be supported and not, as was the case in the past, to be disadvantaged when applying for funding. For me personally, the climate in the last committee, with the colleagues of all political groups, was very pleasing with the experts. It would be desirable if this were to continue and, just as my colleague Wolfmayr said, one would feel here again that we sometimes agree. We discussed, among other things, the Technology Report 2004 within the Committee, we talked about the Austrian research strategies, we also noted that very few women in the research landscape are unfortunately there, that Austria is in a very bad position in the international ranking, and that we really have to take different measures – whether these are programmes like MUT, IMST, FEMtech, Brainpower – and that we will, of course, evaluate them in a row to see how much these programmes have taken. We have already come a great step closer to the objective of dividing research funding between the economy – two thirds – and one third to the state. We have noted that the economy invests a lot and that it is good that domestic as well as foreign companies choose Austria as a location. Otherwise it would not be possible for companies like Baxter or Boehringer to come to Austria and set up their tents with us. They do so because on the one hand we have an interesting tax system, because on the other hand we have the good minds here and because we have excellent universities and research institutions. [[President Dr. Khol gives the bell sign]] It's supposed to continue on this path!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25497	The next speech is from Mr Zweytick. Speech time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25516	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! It's nice to be able to make a four-party decision at the end of this day – I appreciate this a little bit of success after a long day and especially after a very interesting morning, a so-called brilliant morning-sacker, who says: The ‘education policy is a disaster’ – and this means Austria and our education policy, Mr Broukal, Mr Niederwieser. I don't think that's true! If you agree today and now, education policy in this country cannot be such a catastrophe – you will give me the right with your consent. We are constantly doing something for the students, ladies and gentlemen, constantly making improvements, and this novel shows that more students will benefit from the funding in the future. Meanwhile, every fifth university student and every third FH student is already receiving a scholarship, and we currently have the highest level of students since 2001. You agree today, you give us the right – I congratulate you very much! In conclusion, I should like to say a few words. Your application or part of it: The abolition of tuition fees would be a step back to the past. Your request contains everything that is expensive, but not good. Good night!
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25558	For the time being, Mr Dipl.-Ing. Hütl. He also wants to speak for 2 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25577	Mr President. Thank you, Mrs. Federal Minister! The four parliamentary parties have now agreed on this Studienförderungsgesetz. It will bring reliefs in scholarships for secondary studies, graduations and semesters abroad. It should also be noted that the study aid authority is positive, as it has been particularly positively assessed by the Court of Auditors in its exercise report, in particular because of its quality management and customer orientation and information and service offers. I have already said that foreign scholarships are facilitated. I would also like to point out that there is also a scholarship in this area in Lower Austria. It is called top scholarship abroad, and it is awarded up to a maximum amount of € 5 000 for a stay abroad of at least three months up to a maximum of 12 months, also from the third semester. The general development of study aid is also positive: Nearly 47 000 students received funding in the winter semester of 2004/2005. This is an increase of 1.5 percent compared to a year ago. In the 2000/2001 study year, there were still 34 000 scholarship recipients – an increase of 35 percent in the last four years. Each fifth university student and almost every third FH student receives a scholarship. That is to say, it is taken care of – and I quote here again the Federal Minister – that everyone who wants to study and brings along the necessary conditions can also study, and that is certainly another step towards European higher education, towards Bologna goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25614	In the word, no one has been reported for this. The debate is closed. The rapporteur does not wish to conclude. We shall now proceed to the vote on the draft law and the title and receipt in 785 of the supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this bill to give a sign of approval. – The consent shall be given unanimously. The draft law is therefore adopted. We shall now proceed to the third reading. Whoever agrees in third reading, I ask for a sign on this matter. – There is also unanimity here. The draft law is therefore also adopted at third reading. We shall now proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Broukal, fellow Members, on improvements to the Studienförderungsgesetz and the abolition of tuition fees. Whoever stands up for this, I ask for a sign in this regard. [[Abg. Dr. Gusenbauer: (in the direction of the non-representatives of the ÖVP and the liberals) There you are too cowardly again!]] – This request does not find a majority and is therefore rejected. 18. Point Government Template: Agreements on audiovisual Community productions between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Canada and Annex (666, e.g.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25666	We now reach the 18th. Agenda item. The preliminary consultation in a committee was removed. In the word, no one is reported for that. We shall now proceed to the vote. The subject matter is the approval of the Government template: Agreements on audiovisual Community productions between the Government of the Republic of Austria and the Government of Canada and the Annex, 666 of the Supplements. I would ask those who are in favour of this sign to do so. – This is unanimously accepted. 19. Point Government template: Protocol on the Privileges and Immunities of the European Organization for Nuclear Research (665 d.a.) (in accordance with § 28a GOG no committee preliminary advice)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25712	We are now entering the 19th century. Agenda item. Here, too, the preliminary consultation in a committee has been removed. There are no words available for this purpose. We shall now proceed to the vote. The subject matter is the approval of the Government template: Protocol on the privileges and immunities of the European Organization for Nuclear Research, 665 of the Supplements. I ask those ladies and gentlemen who are in favour of this, to have a sign of approval. – Mr Herb, are you for it or against it? [[Abg. Dr. Herbs rise from his seat.]] - You're for it! This ensures unanimity. The Protocol is therefore adopted unanimously. We shall now proceed to the vote on the request within the meaning of Article 49. 2 of the Federal Constitutional Act to decide that the French language version is to be made known by the fact that it is used for public inspection in the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Whoever agrees, I ask for a sign on this matter. – The approval is granted unanimously, which is therefore accepted. 20. Point First reading: Request by Mr Ing. Erwin Kaipel, colleagues in a federal law amending the Federal Law on the Establishment of a Federal Procurement Society with Limited Liability (BB-GmbH Act) (464/A)
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25778	We reach the 20th. Agenda item. We are going into the debate. President. — I call the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats). Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. Desirable time: 4 minutes. Please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25803	Mr President. Mrs. Federal Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of the statements made earlier, I must say that the speakers of the government groups want to underestimate the impact of federal procurement or to underestimate it. In any event, I know from my own experience from many examples that the federal procurement creates hundreds of small businesses in Austria: many small companies that have to take on massive sales losses, with the result that branch closures and jobs are lost. That is precisely why we have tried to counteract this with applications to help these small companies and their employees. If you then change these SPÖ requests to government applications, then it is your vanity – we have no problem with it and we still agree if it fits content. We are very much in favour of the exclusion of the books from the federal procurement. All other content, I think, will not show the effect you suspect. The rest is more or less a teaching for the Federal Minister, where you are just explaining what is new to European regulations or European recommendations. [[Abg. Neudeck: This is already fulfilled, please!]] This is basically not new, it has long been true, and the Minister of Finance should stick to it. You want to solve the problem with a motion for a resolution asking the Minister for Finance to follow these regulations and recommendations. The effect will probably not be very large. [[Abg. May. Molterer: Don't underestimate us!]] . We want to bring these regulations into the law, so that the Minister of Finance is also legally bound by it, namely the question of micro-enterprises or the definition for the regions. In addition, however, we want an annual report to the National Council so that we can also check whether the small and micro-enterprises have actually come into service, and on the basis of replies from the Minister of Finance to requests, I know that he would be very much in favour of it. We also know that there are massive problems in the food sector, that corrupt foods are delivered and that farmers who have been able to deliver earlier and have given quality assurance are now no longer on the move. That is why we want to remove food from this procurement system. With regard to the special disadvantages caused by small businesses, we want to make sure that they are balanced by a percentage reduction. In an analogy, there is also the rule that the public hand may buy eco electricity more expensively. This is socially desirable, and we want to support it very much. We also want regional purchasing to be considered a positive quality feature for federal procurement, and this should also be worth us as well as the eco electricity. If several representatives of the government parties have pointed out savings, I can show you that the opposite is true. I can show you a wide range of cases in which the federal procurement has led to price increases in the order of up to 750 percent. They're all talking about rural areas. If we protect him together, then we can become active on this question! I should therefore like to ask all of you, the Members of all the political groups, to support these requests, and I am looking forward to a positive outcome in the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25866	Mrs Schiesermair is now speaking to us. Desirable time: 2 minutes. Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25884	Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office of High house! In Mr Kaipel's request, the alleged lack of consideration of the federal procurement society is addressed to the regional supply structure in rural areas. As Federal Minister Grasser has already said in several replies to questions, there are already many possibilities, without amending the law, for example, for small and medium-sized enterprises to be included, for example through the merger of small and medium-sized enterprises with working communities, thereby giving them access to previously unexploited markets. I would also like to point out that special benefits can be allocated locally, on time or by quantity and by type. Please note, too, that in the explanations of the text of the law, the consideration of small and medium-sized enterprises is explicitly anchored. The lack of flexibility in the current application is now quite guaranteed in the shop and catalogue solutions which have been developed. This means that services can quickly and easily retrieve the goods and services they require via an Internet platform. I am well aware that it is a narrow hole and that it represents a balance of interests between optimising costs and securing economic locations in the regions. You don't have to change laws constantly, you just have to look at them being implemented. So the political will is clear, the legal system is clear, and when executing it it must be ensured that it is done properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25921	Mr Neudeck is now speaking. Desirable time: 2 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25940	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Kaipel, I don't know if At the last meeting of the Financial Committee, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. There are communities of bidders; the region is less defined than you would like to have it here. I am looking forward to the next committee meeting, in which you will perhaps present to us the figures you have already promised us several times, so that they will not only always put them in the room, but perhaps also put them on the table, the 750-percent price increase you have claimed. That'll be interesting. It must be flea powder or something similar, because you will certainly not be able to prove such price increases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25972	I can't understand that with the flea powder. Next speaker is Mrs Sburny. Desirable time: 4 minutes. - Please.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e25993	Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr Neudeck – I do not see him now; ah, there he is, thank you. [[Abg. Neudeck: That was a compliment, thanks!]] Okay. It is true that we have dealt with some of these in the Financial Committee. However, I think it is important – even in view of the fact that the effects, as I have already described it, are not so clear on this path, or are more negative – that we are discussing this matter again, beyond this field of technical books, and also in view of the fact that there has already been a discussion in the discussion at the time of the establishment of the BBG about the product groups to be excluded. I think this is a good reason to start this debate again and look at it a little more concretely. The positive mood in the Committee makes me hope that we will achieve a good result.
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e26028	No one's been reported in the word anymore. The debate is closed. I agree with request 464/A to the Financial Committee. The agenda is exhausted. Inflow
ParlaMint-AT_2005-01-26-022-XXII-NRSITZ-00093_d7e26058	In the sense of § 23 para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure I now, in fact, post-festum, take note of the following letter from the Federal Chancellor – it must be, Mr Klubobmann – on the reform of the Federal Government: Mr President, I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council. I am honoured to inform you that the President of the Federal Republic of Germany, with his resolution of 26. January 2005, Zl. 300,000/1-BEV/05, in accordance with Article 74(3) Federal Constitutional Act the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection Mag. ==References== in accordance with Article 74(3), in conjunction with Article 78(2) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the State Secretary in the Federal Ministry for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection Ursula Haubner has been removed from the Office. At the same time, on my proposal pursuant to Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act, the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection, Ursula Haubner, the former State Secretary, has, in accordance with Article 70(1) of the Federal Constitutional Act Mr Sigisbert Dolinschek has been appointed State Secretary at the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection and has given him support in the management and parliamentary representation of the Federal Minister for Social Security, Generations and Consumer Protection.” [[Abg. Mandak: For how long?]] I am still announcing that in today's session the self-employed applications 500/A to 522/A have been submitted. Questions 2519/J to 2595/J were also raised. By the way: I cannot answer the question of Quousque Zahnem, Mrs Mandak. The next meeting of the National Council, dedicated to business communications and allocations, will be convened at 10:24 p.m. – that is immediately after this meeting. This meeting is closed.
